ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officers of authority. Let's start our plenary meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] of the first item on the agenda is the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the non-promulgation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 95 / XIV — Approves special public procurement measures and amends the Code of Public Contracts, as annexed to Decree-Law No 18 / 2008 of 29 January 2008, the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Courts, as annexed to Law No 15 / 2002 of 22 February and Decree-Law No 200 / 2008 of 9 October 2008 to which I proceed below: « 1. I address your Excellency in accordance with Article 136 ( 1 ). the Constitution, transmitting this message to the Assembly of the Republic on Decree No 95 / XIV. 2. The proposed scheme aims to make an extensive amendment, in particular the Code of Public Contracts and the Code of Procedure in the Administrative Tribunals, with the aim of simplifying and streamlining procedures, with the main objective of facilitating the recruitment financed by European funds, adding to it the area of forest fires and the agri-food sector. 3. It is, of course, understandable — and even desirable — the need for simplification and improvement of public procurement procedures which can, strictly speaking, involve improving the living conditions of the Portuguese people and enable them to facilitate the allocation and allocation of such funds in an exceptional context, such as we are currently living, and within the very limited time limits that will be laid down in their regulations. 4. Such simplification and improvement, however, requires, as a counterpart, an attention to the control, even if a posteriori, of the legality and regularity of contracts, required by administrative transparency. In particular, a more elaborate treatment of the effects of a posteriori control by the Court of Auditors as regards the successful tenderer and the successful tenderer and the composition and functions of the new independent monitoring and supervision committee. 5. in these words, I return, without promulgation, Decree No 95 / XIV, asking the Assembly of the Republic to consider: a. the effects on the contracting party and the procurator of the post-control of illegalities and irregularities detected by the Court of Auditors and thus, b. the guarantee of the chairmanship of the independent commission of monitoring and supervision by member appointed by the Assembly of the Republic, the forecasting of the extension of the incompatibility of all members with the performance of positions in economic and social partners, and the additional substance of the role of the committee in terms of liaison with the Court of Auditors and public knowledge of their activities. Do not keep on seeking. ” The President of the Republic sent this message on 5 December, so his reading has been scheduled for today, in which he is the first plenary after that date and the Conference of Leaders. Before we enter the second item on the agenda, Ms. Maria da Luz Rosinha will do her best to account for the file. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u2	Good afternoon to all and to all. I will announce that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 594 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which falls to 13. the Commission, and draft resolutions Nos 774 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 1. the Commission, 775 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 776 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 777 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 778 / XIV / 2. a ( Member not registered Cristina Rodrigues ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 779 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 780 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 781 / XIV / 2. a ( PS ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 782 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 783 / XIV / 2. a ( ENP ), which falls to 8. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Maria da Luz Rosinha. Let us then enter the second item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in Bill No. 579 / XIV / 2. a ( PSD ) — Change Article 36. the -A of the Statute for Tax Benefits, approved by Decree-Law No 215 / 89 of 1 July, in order to extend the period of admission of new entities to the Scheme of the International Trade Centre for Madeira or free zone of Madeira until 31 December 2023, in accordance with Commission Regulation ( EU ) 2020 / 972 of 2 July 2020, together with Draft Resolution No 648 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government adopt a set of measures to combat tax havens and carry out a cost-benefit assessment of the overall economic, social and fiscal impact of the Madeira Free Zone. To open the debate, on behalf of the PSD, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are matters that, because of their size and importance, should unite us and not divide us. That is what the Portuguese expect of us: union and commitment, when the creation and maintenance of employment are involved and a prospect of future wealth creation, especially at a time of pandemic. This is the case of the International Centre for Business of Madeira (CINM), an extremely important instrument for Madeira but also for the country. When we talk about CINM, we talk about 6000 workers, more than 1600 companies, a fifth of Madeira's regional economy, 120 million euros of annual tax revenue ; we talk about Mrs and Mrs. Members of a credible and transparent centre, a valuable instrument for the internationalization of Portuguese companies; we speak of our International Centre, the Centre of Portugal, created and audited by the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a moment of serious economic and pandemic crisis such as what we are going through requires the courage and responsibility of each one of us, but in particular the party that supports the government, to focus on the essential to the detriment of the accessory.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u6	That is what we are asking all Members and all Members today. Members, in particular those of the Socialist Party's bench : that they concentrate on the essentials, that they know how to distinguish what is at stake — the extension of the IV regime — and that they avoid interventions that promote conflict and crispaction around other matters relating to the III regime. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, our initiative has a very clear and very simple purpose: to take advantage of the opportunity window given by the European Union on 2 July, with a view to mitigating the effects of COVID-19 on Madeira, and to allow the extension of the tax benefits of the CINM scheme IV from 1 January. There's no reason, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no basis for this initiative, which we presented on October 30, not to be made feasible by all Members and by all parties, in particular by the party which supports the government and which has governmental responsibilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u8	I repeat: there is no reason, there is no basis for voting against this initiative. We're talking, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a surgical amendment to the Statute for Tax Benefits, authorised by the European Union, within the framework of Regime IV. That's all, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are at issue: it is the extension, in a pandemic context, of Regime IV, which does not prevent any investigation by the Commission, and which was duly authorized by Brussels in July; it is to do so, Mrss and Mrss. Members, what the Government of the Republic has not done and what the Spanish Government has already done before the Canaries ; it is to do what, curiously, the Government of the Republic undertakes to do today by means of a letter of intent ; it is to exercise reserved competence of Parliament, since any solution to tax benefits must pass through this Chamber. To extend the tax benefits of CINM, Mr and Mrs. Members, it is a common purpose and objective for the PSD and the Government of the Republic. There is, therefore, no such thing as these. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing that prevents the Socialist Party from making this solution possible by tomorrow, which I repeat will have to pass through Parliament. This is also an opportunity to clarify, seriously, the importance of the Centre in an autonomous region with its own, ultraperipheral and highly tourism-dependent government bodies, a centre which some, by obvious ignorance or will, want to question, at a time of pandemic, asking for feasibility studies, but which is quite audited and monitored, either by the European Union or by national authorities, as the recent news shows. Despite the differences in interpretation in relation to Regime III at no time, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the Commission questions the maintenance and future of the Centre. It is not, therefore, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, honestly, even though the interpretative differences which have been revealed, on the eve of the discussion of this initiative, by the Commission — and which are subject to appeal — may undermine the maintenance of the CINM. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as in everything, there are no perfect systems. If there are prevaricators, they will have to be punished, but of course, Mrs and Mrs. Members, the existence of some prevaricators cannot call into question the whole and an essential and indispensable instrument like this for Madeira and the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u9	To present the draft resolution of the NAP and to participate in the debate, Mr André Silva has now spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u10	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Our country loses, each year, more than EUR 1000 million for tax evasion, i.e. € 101 per Portuguese. With this money, we could pay 9% of the country's education expenses or the annual salary of almost 50,000 nurses. The impact of these losses on the public record compels us to act. Acting means that Portugal and our Government must fight, within the framework of the international organisations of which they are part, such as the European Union or the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), through mechanisms for effectively combating money laundering and tax evasion, evasion and electoral phenomena based on tax havens, in particular in the sense of fiscal harmonisation. That is what we are proposing at the first point in our draft resolution: a strong position of Parliament towards a change in government position — no less, no less. And, if there is any doubt, without recalling the government's titubious stance on the strange case of the CBCR (Country-by-Country Reporting) directive, I leave the question of what position our country had on the recent decision of the Council of the Union to draw the Cayman Islands from the list of tax havens. Silence is serious because we are talking about the one who, this year, was considered the least transparent tax haven in the world, representing almost 5 % of all fraudulent tax operations taking place globally. But acting means taking measures at the internal level to stop the one who is our internal offshore, the free zone of Madeira. We are talking about a tax regime that should, in theory, contribute to the creation of employment in Madeira, but that, in practice, as the European Commission said, not only did it not create the jobs promised, as according to the Teixeira Rosário Prosecutor, it is a focus of corruption and money laundering in our country, since it is used by corporate structures of excessive complexity, trust structures and transit accounts. We well know that they benefited from this phantom business regime linked to BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ), Isabel dos Santos or dictator Obiang, which is self-explaining. We are talking about a regime that not only does not contribute to the productive economy of the country and the Autonomous Region of Madeira, as it has brought high costs to the public record. These tax bills cost EUR 2, EUR 8 billion in 10 years and, by placing GDP (gross domestic product) in the artificially high region, this tax regime meant the indirect annual loss of EUR 1000 million in European funds that should go to the region. It will be enough to make the accounts to realize that the one who loses is the Country, it is Madeira and it is the Portuguese. Parliament cannot continue to close its eyes on this reality, it must act. To act at the moment is to study the scheme comprehensively, making a cost-benefit assessment of its economic, social and fiscal impact. This is all the more important in a context where, in 2019, the famous study on tax benefits left out this one that is one of the most risky benefits and that weighs most on the public record. The NAP presents itself in a responsible manner in this debate, with a proposal aimed at conducting a study on Madeira's free zone, a proposal which, even at the state budget, was considered, by Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, as dealing with the matter in a serious and integrated way. Therefore, we hope you will count on the Socialist Party's favourable vote. What the NAP wants is a structured and responsible view of fiscal policy. It is basically a waste of time on the impact of these tax bills. Although we disagree with the existence of this regime, we are proposing to establish common sense, which is a medium-term between antagonistic positions, not making the option for the maintenance or revocation of the regime, so that the pros and cons are weighed so that the best decision can be made. It remains to be known whether the Socialist Party and the other parties will opt for this responsible path proposed by the NAP or whether they will prefer the logic of fiscal policy above the knee proposed by the PSD, which, critically and without any technical weighting or study, will allow the entry of new ghost companies by 2023 and extend this regime which costs the country so much until 2027.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u11	Mr Carlos Pereira, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since Portugal constituted the free zone of Madeira, for more than 30 years, there have always been two characteristics that followed its evolution, and they have been adapted to the challenges and correction of assumptions and rules whenever there were deviations from the essential goals of creating wealth and employment and the country's negotiating capacity, in conjunction with the Autonomous Region of Madeira, to obtain the best conditions of competitiveness of this square, as well as an irreplaceable contribution to regional development. Although we can always consider that it was possible to do more and better, today's results are unmistakable and stem from recent studies, of 2019, made by the unsuspecting Portuguese Catholic University, of evaluation of the contribution of this foreign investment attraction structure to Portugal. The conclusions are that Madeira's free zone contributed almost EUR 400 million to GDP, almost 10 %, and represents nearly 6000 jobs. I repeat: it could be better, but it is not understandable that these data are considered negligible. on another level, the great battle of the International Business Centre of Madeira, along the different regimes, has been the defense of its credibility. The credibility of Madeira's free zone should be measured not only by the ability to attract companies but also by good practices of transparency and supervision that transmit the necessary confidence to international markets. Under no circumstances can a responsible government challenge these attributes, because, if it does, it will contribute to the progressive erosion of the role of these mechanisms for regional development. It would be a signal contrary to the desirable and a strategic error that we would pay dearly in the future. The strengthening of legislation on prevention and combating money laundering, or the strengthening of rules that avoid negative results for the generalisation of suspicions about the misuse of tax benefits, is essential to strengthen the image of credibility and consistency that a plaza of this kind must have at the international level. International competition in this field is ferocious, so the added value of the International Centre for Madeira's Business needs to be strengthened by the transparent and in line with Community law, and it must maintain and strengthen best international practices to assist in the densification of the whole model of supervision and the fulfilment of external guidelines, whether from the European Union or from the OECD, as it is now. There are, therefore, good things in recent communications from the European Commission, but also bad things that need to be corrected. On the one hand, it acknowledged the validity of special schemes in the free zone of Madeira and their compliance with European legislation, but on the other hand, the European Commission presented serious criticisms of how, in some cases, the existing regime is being used, in particular in meeting the job creation criteria. If we want to be active authors of the sustainability of Madeira's free zone, we cannot ostensibly ignore these impositions, which affect not only Regime III, but also Regime IV. To act in this way would be effectively against the future of the CINM and would be deepening a path of non-return, in terms of the irreplaceable contributions of this mechanism to the creation of wealth and employment. in this framework, the diploma under review is not only temporary, because the Government of the Republic has already communicated to the Regional Government of Madeira the extension until 31 December 2021, as the Spanish Government did in relation to the Canary Islands, as it is irresponsible, because it constantly ignores an essential aspect of the heart of the idea of State aid to the free zone of Madeira, which is that of job creation and its proper registration. If before the public knowledge of the results of the audit we could consider that the simple extension of Regime IV would be the only aspect that should guide us, with the facts transmitted by the European Commission and its assessment, no one will be able to accept that the best defense of the CINM would be to lie under the carpet these impositions, placing Madeira's free zone in an endless confrontation with suspicion and the degradation of its image of external credibility. Don't count on us to follow that path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u13	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Madeira International Business Centre is a dynamic entity, in that every year, companies enter and leave. This possibility, opened up by the European Commission and reflected in the PSD bill, of extension for more than three years of the period of acceptance of companies, is of enormous importance to the Centre. The extension of this deadline also enables some companies to exit in fact to be compensated with new revenue and minimizes the losses of the important tax revenue generated by the Centre and which have suffered a considerable reduction during the pandemic. It was a pity that this amendment had been forgotten during the discussion of the State budget, but we now have the opportunity to correct that forgetfulness.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u16	But I also do not want to allow this opportunity to refer to two aspects of the recent conclusions of the European Commission's audit on the failure to comply with the rules on State aid to the free zone of Madeira. First of all, if the Portuguese State is confident in its argument, it should indeed appeal this decision because it would not be the first time that the European Commission would lose a case concerning State aid granted by a Member State at the Court of Justice of the European Union. Secondly, the person who did so must suffer the consequences of these possible infringements and Portugal's commitments to the European Union must be scrupulously fulfilled. Finally, it has been known today that the Government intends to introduce amendments which aim to bring the rules of Regime IV of the free zone of Madeira into line with Community law, and if it is found that the European Commission was right in relation to the findings of this audit, it would be good for the Government of Madeira to show greater competence in the setting and monitoring of these same rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u17	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This PSD schedule, whether or not you want to or not, obliges us to talk about the European Commission's research, which, although it took a long time, would say that it has remained for decades, has finally asked the questions that are being asked. What do they do and what do companies use in Madeira's free zone? And now we also ask: what is your contribution to the development of the region? If we look at the results of this investigation, we realize what we all already knew: jobs are double counted, managers count as workers and tax benefits are assigned without any effective control. That's how they work, and that's how international business centers thrive. It's all good not to pay taxes. Now, the PSD intends to extend this immorality for another three years and, above all, without any change to the current legal regime. No, we do not agree and we believe that instead of extending this scheme, what is required is to fully recover the aid allocated illegally. But for that, the PSD will certainly not be available. in a more global reading, tax havens have contributed, and continue to contribute, to the immorality and fiscal injustice that reigns among us. In fact, we all realize what they serve, and who they serve, tax havens. They serve the great fortunes and the big companies, they serve so that these great fortunes do not pay taxes and serve until they hide money. In our view, a State cannot, nor must it, deal with mechanisms that are used to escape the payment of tax obligations and to hide money, even above when the citizens who work, or have worked their entire lives, who have less income, who contribute to the economy and the development of the country are obliged to pay their taxes without pain or pity. Moreover, the existence of tax havens is absolutely inseparable from the worsening social inequalities, poverty and unsustainable economic model that is being installed in the world. It is no wonder, therefore, that the Greens have always been against the existence of tax havens. We also presented a diploma in 2019, which proposes that the Government take the initiative to actively engage with the other States and the international organisations it is part of in order to find solutions for the elimination of tax havens. It was on a proposal from the Greens that the State budget for 2021 left out of state support companies in connection with tax havens. It was also on a proposal from the Greens that these companies no longer benefit from the suspension of IMI tax (municipal property tax) and saw the increased rate in municipal tax on expensive shipments of buildings. So we are going to vote against the PSD proposal and we are going to vote in favour of the NAP proposal in its two numbers, even because one of the numbers is practically the same as the one presented by the Greens about a year ago. Thus, we are even obliged to vote in favour of paragraph 1 of the NAP proposal, since it is practically the same as the proposal presented by the Greens in 2019. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u19	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the 2008 financial crisis, many voices were raised against tax havens. Good intentions have been abundant, there have been great reports and excellent interventions on tax havens, and what they potentiate in tax fraud, money laundering, financial crime, financing organised crime and terrorism. Despite this apparent consensus, the truth is that the interests of the great transnational capital have always prevailed,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ...for both the European Union and for several national governments, including successive Portuguese governments, for whom the freedom of capital action is the supreme value to be preserved. Therefore, the PS, the PSD and the CDS rejected multiple initiatives, including those of the CFP, in order to combat tax havens, ensure taxation in Portugal of profits generated in the country, eliminate tax privileges for large economic groups and « repair the house », ending Madeira's offshore. What is now recognised by the research carried out by the European Commission is said for a long time by the CFP. I quote what we said in 2015 : « Contrary to what its defenders claim, Madeira's free zone does not benefit the regional economy, nor the Madeiran people; it only benefits from an elite, national and foreign, which uses it to escape tax payments ». There is therefore no novelty in what the European Commission now says, which for years has promoted the existence of this regime. Already in 2009, the last year that we have published official statistics, we knew that 91 % of the entities registered in Madeira's free zone had no workers ; we knew that the average number of employees per company was less than one ; we knew that the value of the IRC (tax on the income of the public) settled, 6 million euros, represented only 0, 03 % of the revenues declared. That is, few jobs, little tax revenue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u21	Is it low? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u22	... little or no investment made in the region, for large billboards in favour of a financial elite that takes advantage of the right not to pay taxes, at the same time as those who live from their work or their small business are obliged to fulfil their tax obligations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u24	The free zone of Madeira has brought no benefits to the country, nor answers to the problems of the people of Madeira. On the contrary, it contributed to artificially inflationing the region's GDP and thus reducing the Community funds transferred to Madeira. There is therefore no justification for continuing this regime as proposed by the PSD. In the State budget for 2021, the CFP presented a proposal to repeal the rules of the Statute for Tax Benefits, which the PSD now wants to extend, relating to the free zone of Madeira, in a series of other amendments which have allowed to end various tax exemptions, incomes that are generated in Portugal, particularly by speculative sectors. This proposal, which included the end of Madeira's free zone in a set of measures to end tax benefits for investment funds and venture capital companies, was rejected by PS, PSD, CDS, the Liberal Initiative and the Arrival, the real arc of the system of privileges and prosperitys for the usual ones. This proposal would allow for greater fiscal justice so that, at the same time, taxes on those who live in their work, on those who have lower incomes and intermediate incomes, on small businesses, could be disbursed, because they do contribute to investment and employment. It is because of this fairer fiscal policy that the CFP will continue to beat. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u25	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has proposed the repeal of Regime IV applicable to the Madeira Free Zone, which largely reproduces part of the structure already coming from Regime III, the Regime which has been investigated by the European Commission. Both tax systems provide generous tax benefits, for example in IRC, among others, in exchange for a fiction, which is that there is a counterpart in terms of job creation or wealth creation in the Autonomous Region of Madeira. That's not really what this is about. In fact, it was never that the regime dealt with, nor when it was a financial offshore, nor when it evolved into the current rules. It is not for reasons of job creation or wealth that Isabel dos Santos installed his companies in the free zone of Madeira!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u27	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u28	It was not to create jobs or wealth that the children of dictator Obiang installed their companies in the free zone of Madeira! It was not to create jobs that famous footballers, working in Spain, installed their companies in the free zone of Madeira! They installed their companies in that place because they wanted to escape their tax obligations, because they did not want to pay the taxes that all other companies have to pay legitimately. This is unfair competition! They install their companies in that place because they want a regime that facilitates money laundering.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u30	For years we have known that the criteria are surrounded, for years we know and are proven that jobs are fictitious and are not created, for years we know that wealth is not in Madeira, but there are parliamentary groups and Members who do not want to see this. The evidence is obvious to those who want to see it, but deny it, because, in fact, what they want is the offshore, the benefit, the privilege of the companies that use and abuse this regime. We said in 2016 that jobs are not being created, we proposed criteria for jobs to be created, but those who say they want Madeira's free zone to create jobs have dropped the project aimed at job creation in that place.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u31	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u32	This scheme does not benefit Madeira, nor the population of Madeira, which continues to have one of the largest poverty exchanges in the country ; this scheme benefits the companies that use and abuse it to avoid paying the taxes they have to pay in their respective countries. This is not a question of Community law, it is a question of fraud in Portuguese law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u34	This is the case in Regime III, but also in the current Regime. Criticisms to Regime III shall apply to the Regime which is in force. We have a lot of certainty about the Madeira Free Zone regime — we know it is an invitation to abuse, tax evasion and money laundering — but we also have doubts, in particular about the ability of the Madeira Tax and Tax Authority to monitor offshore. It is not possible that, over the years, if I were to break this regime without having a supervisory authority. Therefore, in the name of transparency, rigour and fiscal justice, the Madeira regime cannot be extended. This seems very obvious to us. There is another issue that is important to clarify. We have all seen — we cannot deny — in the State budget the hesitation of the PSD/Madeira Members in the vote on the New Bank proposal. It was written in the media that this hesitation would have to do with the fact that the Socialist Party and members of the Government are trying to convince the PSD/Medeira to change their sense of vote, precisely with negotiations on the regime of the free zone of Madeira. On a point of transparency, I would like to ask Mrs. PSD/Medeira Sara Madruga da Costa, but also Mrs. Members of the PS, which was then spoken. What negotiation was in fact at issue when the PSD/Madeira Members tried to change their sense of vote, as we all have seen? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u35	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on the free zone of Madeira, which is not a tax haven, is becoming a debate on tax havens, so we should distinguish some aspects. Let us start with the principle and speak in a very obvious fact, which is the fact that we are in the middle of a pandemic and one of the most affected economic sectors — if not the most affected — because this pandemic is that of tourism. Now tourism is a very important economic activity for Portugal, but it is more important in some regions of the national territory than in others. I don't think I need to explain it to any of the gentlemen. Members the weight that tourism has in the GDP and in the Madeira region. It is also not difficult to understand that the Madeira region is experiencing difficulties, as we are all, but more than other regions of Portugal. So the first question that seems obvious to me is whether, in the face of these special difficulties in the Madeira region caused by the pandemic, we want to do something. And if so, I already realized that they want to create a new problem—because there is no problem with tourism anymore— by ending the International Business Centre. What is at issue is exactly the following: if there is no extension of the current regime, purely and simply from 1 January 2021, new companies cannot be registered. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on this subject, if we are going to have a discussion on tax havens and if we are going to ask ourselves whether it is possible, from an international and global point of view, to walk into a system in which there are fewer tax havens, or where tax havens do not work, and in which, above all, there is an exchange of information that allows the fight against crime and money laundering, I am absolutely in favour, but we are not here discussing this. It is good that we have this notion, because, as much as we inflame the speeches, which repeats the word 'barla' and that we are saying that we are losing a lot of tax revenue, if this regime of the International Business Centre of Madeira ends, Portugal will not receive even more a euro of tax revenue. Very calmly, the overwhelming majority of companies that are there go to the Canary Islands, to the Netherlands or to Luxembourg. from the point of view of tax revenue, Portugal will not only not receive one more euro, but it will also probably lose these 120 million euros of tax revenue. This is what's at stake here!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u38	Everything else — on the one hand, the tax revenue we could have if the Business Centre were to finish — is a fiction and simply does not exist. Therefore, what is asked of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it is their intention to continue with this regime that the Madeirans want and that allows, yes, there are 6000 indirect jobs — that is true! — and EUR 120 million of indirect tax revenue...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u40	... or if you want these companies to go to other countries, which are not tax havens but have a competitive taxation. At the same time, there is a question of what kind of wages are being waged in these countries called tax havens, where citizens live better than Portuguese. Maybe, but it's worth betting on fiscal competitiveness. [[Congrats from PSD Member Paulo Neves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u41	Panama!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u42	It's not Panama!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u43	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u44	Mr President, I just wanted to leave a few final notes. Among the more or less lonely extremism, I would say, of the Left Block, who prefers to look at Madeira instead of making an analysis of what is going on in the world... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] On behalf of the truth, I have to tell you this, Mrs Mariana Mortágua : 6000 jobs in Madeira are not fictional, they are people of flesh and bone. Of two, one : or there is an alternative for these people or, then, it seems to me, of course, that this statement is not responsible. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] As I was saying, there is, then, this extremism and there is a lack of knowledge of the NAP, which talks in EUR 1000 million of tax benefits per year, when that is not what is happening, because the average of the last five years does not exceed EUR 70 million of tax benefits. Therefore, there is a deep ignorance about this, besides not knowing that, even last year, the Catholic University did a study on Madeira's free zone and its contribution determines that it is EUR 400 million in GDP, 10 % of GDP, which is 6000 jobs and more than EUR 100 million in tax revenue. It seems to me that there is a deep ignorance! Between these realities and the irresponsibility of the PSD, which believes that it is possible to draw below the objective recommendations of the European Union, which have to do with what is central and nuclear to tax aid, i.e. job creation, is of course the PS, which extends what needs to be extended to maintain the regime and adapt what needs to be adapted to ensure the credibility of the International Madeira Business Centre system internationally. All of us who are walking here well know the kind of effect that has completely ignored what international institutions, such as the European Union or even the OECD, impose on such instruments.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u45	You would like to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u46	It is, in fact, an axe and a step back in what it is essential to achieve, i.e., its credibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u47	To close the debate, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It cannot be worth everything, especially when we are going through one of the worst pandemic crises of recent times. It is not serious, nor is it so fair and acceptable, that we now, at a time of pandemic, put in question a fundamental instrument of a highly tourism-dependent ultraperipheral region, such as Madeira, which has been struggling for several months alone to deal with the effects of COVID-19. Mrs. Members of the far left, ideological issues cannot overlap with the will of the people of Madeira and their own government bodies, in which it is an ultraperipheral region. This debate also revealed a deep ignorance of some extreme-left parties regarding what the International Business Centre is. The International Business Centre is not an offshore, it is not a tax haven—and it is not the PSD that says so. It is a privileged tax system with State aid and has never been referred to in international bodies as « tax haven » and does not contain any of the lists of territories or regions qualified as such, either by the OECD or by the GAFI ( Financial Action Group ). Therefore, to speak of the International Business Centre as a tax haven only manifests a tremendous ignorance. This same tremendous ignorance was also evident in the intervention of Mr PAN, who wants to mix PPP (public-private partnerships) with the International Business Centre and who wants to make it clear that there is damage to the Portuguese State when there is no such thing. There is, yes, benefit, because if these companies were not at the International Business Centre they would be in other competing squares. Therefore, the injury that exists for the Portuguese State is zero. But there are many benefits to Madeira, such as 6000 jobs, which are not fiction, and 120 million euros of tax revenue. I would also like to say that today, curiously, we have come to discover a new constitutional modality of extension of tax benefits by the Government of the Republic: to present a letter of intent, curiously on the same day as this discussion is taking place, and the problem is already solved. Well, ladies and gentlemen. PS Members, this is neither serious nor fair because tax benefits cannot be extended outside Parliament and through letters and mere intentions. Therefore, we would like there to be unity and commitment around this essential issue. We've put a challenge on the ladies. Members of the Socialist Party to enable our initiative, which goes against the European Union regulation — we do not ask any further than the European Union has already granted — so that we can quickly start the legislative process and the discussion on the subject and thus give a clear signal to the workers of Madeira, the workers of the Centre and the investors that we are together, that we are committed to resolving this issue now and not to delay the resolution for time indefinite, that is, we are determined to find the best solution by 2020 and not to 2021. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sooner we start the legislative process, the more time we will have to discuss the best solutions for CINM and the more time we will have to discuss possible amendments that the Socialist Party wants to make. What we want is to find a solution for CINM. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no reason at this time to postpone what we can already do this week, which is to promulgate the Tax Benefit Statute, thus giving credibility and certainty to both 6000 workers, both investors and Madeira. That is what Madeira deserves, especially at a time of pandemic. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u49	We now move on to the third point of our agenda, with the general discussion of Bill No. 165 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Reduction of the age of reform of persons with disabilities and 588 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Conditions of access to reform for people with disabilities. You have the floor to open the debate, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I received, a few days ago, from Rui Coimbras, Vice-President of the Federation of Portuguese Associations of Brain Paralysis, a witness of courage and lucidity that I want to share with you. Twenty-six years of work, always at high level, always showing, with redoubled effort and redoubled quality, that a disability such as cerebral palsy is not an obstacle to a professional performance of great demand. His testimony ended by referring to the projects we are discussing today as follows: "If this law is not approved and the current law is in force, I will probably be reformed by invalidity less than a year later. And that is the greatest offense you can do to me, because, throughout my life, I have always done everything to avoid being invalid». They are thus witnesses of more qualified or less qualified people, who, despite their disability, have a hard working life—earnest to bend, it is important to say—that they motivate the project of the Left Block to reduce the retirement age for people with disabilities. It's a basic demand for justice. As is known, the Left Block defends the general decrease in the retirement age for the age of 65, in rupture with the policy of successive increases of that age that has been followed. Since this is our general approach, it is more than justified to differentiate people with disabilities. The anticipation of the age of reform of people with disabilities is one of these positive discrimination measures that is imposed and that many other countries have already adopted, such as Spain, in 2003, or Brazil, in 2010, among many others. A day-to-day worker or a disabled worker is a succession of times of physical and anemic penosity, indisputably greater than those with no disabilities. From the difficulties experienced at home and in the organization of family life, passing through all architectural and communication barriers between the home and the workplace, with emphasis on transport, to the frequent inadaptation of the job to the demands of the worker's disability, everything is added to an unequivocal increase of wear, to workers without disabilities. And that is an indisputable — and more than enough — basis for the fairness of the anticipation of the age of reform of disabled people. The proposal of the Left Block, adopted unanimously in the Budget for the current year, according to which the Government would study in 2020 the anticipation of the age of reform for people with disabilities, has so far not had any concrete expression. For people with disabilities, this government inaction is not entirely acceptable. The Left Bloc does not resign itself to this without a decision in view, and therefore Parliament is now proposing that anyone who has 55 years and 20 years of social security discounts, 15 of which corresponds to a disability equal to or greater than 60 %, may retire without penalty. We do this on the International Day of Human Rights, which gives the right meaning to our initiative, because it is not a blessing we are dealing with here today, but with fundamental rights of these people. Of course, the age of reform is only one dimension, among others, where the recognition of the dignity of people with disabilities is played. In its overwhelming majority, these people live excluded by a society that fears not to organize physically, economically and legally to guarantee everyone and all an independent and dignified life. Shamefully, architectural barriers and social stigma remain in Portugal, which shoot people with disabilities for one day to day with a practical reduction of rights and penosity, aggravated in the exercise of work and the most trivial tasks. It's been a long time since we say this can't be like this. Policies for people with disabilities cannot be left to those who remain, they must be focused on ensuring the effectiveness of equal rights and rights of difference for those who aspire to the equality that is due them, see the difference that is their condition respected. And, on the horizon of this centrality, there has to be a horizon and a mediation — the horizon is independent life and mediation is positive discrimination. What we are discussing today is whether, by reducing the age of reform of people with disabilities, we contribute to combat the economy that kills and the maintenance of so many people in the condition of surpluses. We have the courage and decency to do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u51	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u52	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The day-to-day lives of people with disabilities continue to be experienced with profound difficulties and obstacles. We know that a long way has been made in many aspects, but daily reality continues to be marked by the limitation and denial of rights, either because it is necessary to go further from a legislative point of view to safeguard the rights of people with disabilities, or because what is in law is not effective. The guarantee of the rights of persons with disabilities is inseparable from cross-cutting measures in the areas of employment, vocational training, social protection; access to education, health, transport, public services; removal of architectural barriers; access to culture, leisure, information; among so many other dimensions on which the CFP has been continuously intervening for several years. People with disabilities are among the social groups who suffer the most violent consequences of unemployment and precariousness at work. The right to employment and to employment with rights are fundamental and essential rights in ensuring independence, autonomy and dignity in each person's life. It is essential that laws in employment for people with disabilities be complied with both in the public and in the private sector. But we also need to go further. The profound difficulties in access to employment with rights result in limiting and preventing the construction of an autonomous and independent life, as they also translate, not rarely, into a short and fragile contribution career, meaning less social protection, including when they reach the moment of reform. Therefore, talking about the reform of disabled people and people with disabilities, as well as the conditions of access to them, also means talking about their working conditions and the increased effort required of them. Within the universe of people to whom we address the proposal we bring here are also people who have suffered work accidents and who, as a result, have been associated with disability, but also many other people who have and live with incapacitating diseases. We advocate that jobs should be properly adapted and that all necessary tools should be ensured for workers to perform their duties. We continue to insist on the urgency of eliminating architectural barriers, ensuring access to public and collective transport, as well as mobility in the stations and stops of the same, and other public spaces. And it is essential to strengthen social protection in situations of incapacity for work. It is not difficult to perceive the difficulty of going to work every day or returning home circulating in places with obstacles or having to use public transport that are not accessible. It is not difficult to understand the difficulty of working every day without having the tools needed to perform their duties or without having jobs tailored to their needs. It is not hard to see that we are talking about increased efforts that are required to those who are already in a situation of more frailty, such as people with disabilities or disabilities. Without prejudice to substantive and cross-border measures, it is necessary to respond to specific issues immediately, by defining conditions for access to reform for persons with disabilities, without penalties, taking into account specific needs that may exist. We therefore propose that a specific regime be established for access to reform for people with disabilities and that this regime, as well as the associated criteria, be defined in conjunction with the representative organisations of people with disabilities. Without prejudice to other criteria that may be considered, we believe that it is important to define a time of contributory career, a period of disability attested by the medical board, as well as it should be considered the penosity and wear of the functions performed, considering the existing disability or disability, and the heterogeneity of disability and disability cannot be ignored. We leave this contribution so that people with disabilities can be guaranteed specific conditions for access to the reform and that their rights may be raised. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u53	Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These proposals are increasingly important in our society, not only because of the object of the projects that come here, and which we have already welcomed, but also because of the whole dimension that is underlying them. To talk about policies for people with disabilities means to talk about real inclusion and in fact we still have a long way to go in Portugal. Recently, on December 3, we marked the International Day of Persons with Disabilities and today we mark the International Day of Human Rights. Assailing these days must mean that we effectively guarantee inclusion policies in our legislation and that they are applied in its fullness, thus ensuring the answers to the needs that we all know exist. We all know that people with disabilities are at greater risk of social exclusion, either because of their successive barriers — physical, communication, financial and cultural — or also because of the way our society still relates to disability, which often acts against fundamental rights and which is something that must be fought without further delay. The NAP has not resigned from that role. An example of this is the successive proposals we have brought here for the effective inclusion of people with disabilities. Also recently, in the discussion of the State budget, we presented several proposals, namely: financial support to the disabled person for business creation; the creation of a national grant of translation and interpretation professionals in Portuguese gestual language in public higher education; the sharing of medicines for people with disabilities; the increase of the basic component of social benefit for inclusion; support for creating accessibility of people with reduced mobility to the various establishments. These proposals have been rejected, although in the discussions in which we participate with all other parties, they all say that they are truly committed to the policies for inclusion. On the projects presented here today, and which meet a principle of justice that, of course, the NAP accompanies, we believe that the proposals currently discussed should form part of a strategic plan for the integration of the disabled person and that, above all, it is essential to monitor and ensure that the legislation already approved is effectively applied and that the deviations are quickly corrected under the penalty of double exclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u55	Mrs Marta Freitas of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the parties for bringing to the plenary debate a matter that meets the demands of people with disabilities. I recall that this is a month of special reflection on the measures that have been taken so far for the inclusion of people with disabilities, often target stigma, which impedes their full participation in society as the other citizens. The Socialist Party has been on its way, particularly in the last five years, in order to increase awareness of this stigma, as well as to respond to the needs of families and people with disabilities, taking long steps towards the inclusion, autonomy and self-determination of these citizens with special needs and whose potential is sometimes undervalued. But certainly this path does not remain here, having a commitment to continue this strengthened journey with the Socialist Party. in this sense, the National Strategy for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities for these next five years, which is in public consultation, gains space and an extreme importance to define which path we intend to go and which priorities should be established. in recent years, legislation has also been strengthened for the protection and inclusion of people with disabilities. And this has been a time for lifting what has been done, what we want and what we need to continue, strengthen or create. It should be remembered that, from this last legislation, there have been important advances, which I want here to reaffirm and highlight, in particular the social benefit for inclusion (PSI ), which allows for life coverage for people with disabilities. The pilot projects of the Independent Life Support Model (MAVI ) were also launched, which are being reassessed towards a definitive model as well as its reinforcement. In 2019, a share of access to employment for people with disabilities was also established, ensuring access to all of them, the right to work provided for in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, with a view to reviewing this measure on quotas at this next stage and strengthening incentives for businesses and creating the Value-T employability agency, which is to reinforce this intention. I would also like to recall the support these companies have in the physical adaptation necessary to ensure the quality of access to work for the disabled, removing barriers that limit the inclusion of people with disabilities. Investments for greater mobility and accessibility, both physical and information to people with disabilities are also guaranteed in the State budget for 2021, as well as the creation of inclusion counters in district and municipal centres. I also want to say that looking at the inclusion of people with disabilities and the measures that enable it is to create conditions and quality of life for all citizens at any time in their lives, either because they live some temporary or permanent condition, or because they support someone who is close to us. But not running away from the issue that brought us here today about the early reform of disabled people, this was a commitment that the Socialist Party Government has assumed with high responsibility since the adoption of Article 75. the State budget for 2020, with the establishment of a working group within the framework of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, with the aim of studying the reform of people with disabilities. Furthermore, as the Secretary of State for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities here stated, at the committee hearing, during the discussion on the speciality of the State budget for 2021, the Government is preparing a study and has been collecting information for this purpose. It has also done the monitoring and discussion in the Committee on Policies for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities, a body whose composition is part of the organizations representing persons with disabilities, being scheduled for a meeting of this National Council for Solidarity and Social Security Policies still in December, where this preliminary study on early reform for people with disabilities will be presented. I would also like to say that the sensitivity that the CFP demonstrates in this proposal is the sensitivity that the Government has also had and that the PS has also been demonstrating, so we find it wise to wait for the presentation of this study, so that there is no overlap of materials with the same object. With regard to the other proposals, it is also important for us to account for the sustainability of the social security contribution scheme, for the definition of privileged and supportive access to early reform of people with disabilities. Mrs. Members, it is important to stress that a proposal was adopted in the context of the State budget for 2020, which will ensure precisely the study on early reforms for people with disabilities. It is important for this process to follow its path and for its deadlines to be respected, as we are checking by the Government. Duplicate, overlapping or extemporaneous proposals do not help to clarify legislative procedures. The defence of the equality of rights of persons with disabilities is a flag which is indeed of all parliamentary groups and which deserves treatment with all dignity. The Socialist Party has made this commitment intransigently. It is therefore essential that the parties present here assume it equally with balance and seriousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u57	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The anticipation of the age of reform of disabled workers is all the more necessary discussion as about 18 % of people living in Portugal, according to the 2011 Censuses, manifest some kind of physical, intellectual or sensory limitation that inhibits them from participating in the various dimensions of life and citizenship in the same circumstances as the others. The creation of conditions for the participation and development of all citizens in different areas of life, the full inclusion of people with disabilities and the full recognition and promotion of their rights is essential to work. Despite the developments that have been witnessed, the Greens consider that there is still a long way to go towards the effective realization of the rights of people with disabilities, the promotion of quality of life and the fight against discrimination. Regarding the development of work activity by people with disabilities, it is important to bear in mind that this implies a daily physical and emotional wear, incomparably greater than that of disabled workers, and that occurs in all routines that occur in the housing or workplace, in daily routines with specific requirements, which represent a high wear. The normal aging process for disabled people is generally more complex. Indeed, people with disabilities are subject to an over-earmarked effort to maintain a professional activity, which affects their aging, can bring pathologies and even have an influence on the average life expectancy. For this reason, people with disabilities should be entitled to reform until their incapacity is aggravated to the point of preventing them from enjoying it with some quality of life. in this specific case, we can and should look at the international examples in which these conditions were considered in the legislation of other countries such as Spain, Germany and France, legislation which enshrines the anticipation of the age of reform without penalty in the case of disabled workers, although there are differences between what was established for each country in terms of age and period of discount. This is why the Greens defend the reduction of the retirement age for disabled workers, because it is a fair measure, also presenting a bill, which will be discussed at another time, considering that this will be, among other measures in the areas of health, employment, education, social protection, transport and removal of architectural barriers, a way to guarantee the rights of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u59	Mr João Pinho de Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party today bring us to the discussion of two initiatives on the relevant topic of access to reform for people with disabilities. Whether or not any other bill enshrines a regime in anticipation of this access to reform. Still, the two projects are very different from each other. The Left Block Bill provides an unconditional anticipation of access to reform for those over 55 years of age who have 20 years of remuneration relevant to the establishment of the pension and, in these 20 years, 15 have been exercised with more than 15 % of disability. On the other hand, the PCP bill, giving the possibility of early access to the same universe of people, opens a discussion and evaluation on the determining conditions of this anticipated access. from our point of view, it makes more sense this option than the first one, of unconditional access. in this sense, what we have to say is that what the CFP brings here is basically the same as it brought into the State budget by 2020 — and well. In addition, the CDS voted in favour of this proposal to amend the CFP to the State budget by 2020. It happens that we're 21 days away from that law. Therefore, what I want to ask the PCP or PS is what happened, since it has been over a year since that law was passed in compliance with Article 75. the State Budget Act for 2020 and what data we can have to evaluate the CFP initiative. As I said, the CDS voted in favour of this initiative. And he had several others, during the past legislation and last year, about what should be a special consideration for people with disabilities. It happens that the parties that now present these initiatives have dropped most of the proposals presented by the CDS regarding these people. For our part, we won't do the same. We believe it is very important to consider the specificity of access to reform for people with disabilities who meet these conditions. But of course this cannot be turned off from what is the sustainability of a system that pays pensions to all citizens. It therefore seems to us to be more alert to the way in which this anticipation can be made than to do so unconditionally.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u61	You now have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, on International Human Rights Day, we discussed two bills on reducing the age of reform for disabled people. It is important to begin with, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who the bill of the Left Block, today under discussion, entered the Assembly of the Republic still in the previous Parliament, precisely one year ago. As a result, the State budget was shifted to 2020 and also the State budget to 2021, however strange it seems, only today we see the Left Block concerned about these matters. It is also important to say, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, to be approved this bill—and it is necessary to mention it so that, whoever is at home, realize what we are talking about— this answer will reach people only in 2022. Now, this does not happen again in a political number on the left block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u63	Political number is saying that! And vote against!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u64	On the other hand, it does not cease to be curious that the PCP bill, which generally has the same purposes as the BE bill, entered six days later, I repeat, six days after the end of the discussion of the State Budget for 2021. If the CFP were really concerned about people with disabilities, it would have presented this measure in the State budget for 2021 and today we would have this measure approved. I still want to leave a note here, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Portuguese Communist Party, because there is something that is also failing, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that you be mentioned here: it is that this bill does not respect the law-work. I must also say that it is still curious that this debate is being held 15 days after the end of the discussion of the State budget, because we could be with this situation already resolved. And we're arguing over the knee,
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u65	And about disabled people, nothing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u66	... in an exercise of « account », two draft laws on a matter of greater relevance to persons with disabilities and which, as I mentioned earlier, could already have effect immediately. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If the proposing parties really wanted to solve this matter, it could have been settled earlier, but today we are seeing here another set of announcements by the Socialist Party. This question has now been enshrined in Article 75. that of the State Budget Act for 2020, as the Member of the Socialist Party pointed out, but curiously, it was necessary to make here a political number with the parties on the left, who always supported the Socialist Party in governance, so that the Socialist Party will come to say what has been done, that is, they are doing a study. And, curiously, 21 days from the end of the deadline when it should be done, they will be preparing to announce. [[Right now, PS deputy Marta Freitas is lighting up with her head on a negative signal.]] Madam Member, excuse me for being making gestures, trying to say that it is settled, because what you have come to do, once again, was a political number saying that you are concerned about people, but people need support, clarity and seriousness from the Portuguese Parliament. [[PS protests.]] In conclusion, I wanted to say that in the PSD Parliamentary Group — and they do not want to be nervous — we do not compact with exercises of political demagogy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u67	And about disabled people, don't you say anything? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u68	Mrs. Members, the left parties in Parliament have been on the backs of the PS, the governance party, on Wednesdays and Thursdays, but on Fridays they vote and approve the measures. This was the case with the abstention at the vote on the last State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u69	What about disabled people? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u70	Mr President, if you really wanted to solve the problem of people, you would have done this in the context of the State budget for 2021 and we were not here to discuss this. I also want to say that, on our part, disabled people may be rested that we will continue to cooperate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u71	They're going to vote against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u72	Moreover, the Social Democratic Party voted in favour of Article 75. the government has not complied with the part of it and is now announcing that it will present the study.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u73	Ah, the study...!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u74	I would also like to say that we are well aware of the difficulties faced by people with disabilities and that we are awaiting the outcome of the study which should already be completed in order to hold a serious debate in Parliamentary committee. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u75	They can wait to sit down!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u76	Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u77	Mr President, I would like to leave some comments on the discussion here. Mr. João Almeida, it was important here to clarify that in the State budget for 2020, which was voted at the beginning of the year, the proposal of the CFP was to assess the conditions for implementation of a special regime for access to reform for people with disabilities. That is what was included in the Budget in conjunction with other proposals which were approved. This proposal goes further than that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u78	I know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u79	This proposal implements the creation of a scheme with a set of criteria that we believe it is important that they be considered and we also admit that there are different conditions of access according to disability. In other words, if the deficiency is motor, it will have different conditions and characteristics and needs of sensory impairments or even of people, for example, with oncological disease or who have experienced work accidents. All these realities must naturally be considered and answered according to needs. Therefore, in the bill we present, we put criteria that should be considered and we defend that organizations representative of people with disabilities have to be effectively involved. Mrs PS, I repeat, must be effectively involved and consider their opinions in drawing up a regime for access to reform for people with disabilities. And it is in this sense that we present a bill that opens doors and leads a path that we think is fundamental to moving forward in this direction. Mrs Helga Correia, allow me to say that if the only objection of the PSD to the PCP bill is the entry into force, then we vote in favour of the bill and, in our specialty, we are dealing with the issue of its entry into force, because what is fundamental, in this initiative, is the guarantee of the rights of people with disabilities that it entails. Therefore, what matters here is whether the PSD wants to follow the PCP on this path, which is fundamental, of deepening the rights of people with disabilities, including in access to reform and considering the characteristics and needs of this social group and also what these people live every day, in the travel to work, in their personal life, in their family life and often in places of work that are not properly adapted to their needs. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u80	To conclude the debate, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the close of this debate, I believe that it is clear that we are facing an essential issue of justice. It was important to highlight this because in this debate, there were those who were entertained, and wanted to entertain us, with blooming on political games, maneuvers, times, who does, who does not. Now, I believe it is important to focus on what is really essential. Mrs Helga Correia, from the PSD, made an entire intervention in which she did not make a single allusion to what is absolutely essential and that is the question of reducing the retirement age.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u82	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u83	More: Mrs Helga Correia had the ability to bring us an intervention in which she put the need for this has already been resolved, but now that it can be resolved, Mrs Helga Correia's party, by the way, is willing to vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u84	Helga!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u85	I am sorry, Helga Correia, I am very sorry for the mistake, but I am not mistaken in the argument and the argument is that Mrs Helga Correia has come to say that she should already have been resolved, but now that she can resolve, Mrs Helga Correia's party will certainly vote against. [[PSD Member Protest Helga Correia.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is a need to be clear on this: the proposal from the Left Block is clear in what it proposes and proposes that those who are 55 years old, with 20 years of social security discounts, 15 of which correspond to a disability equal to or greater than 60 %, may be reformed without penalties. Back to our point: what the non-approval will mean is the condemnation of these people...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u86	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u87	...to go through the humiliation, in front of themselves, of being reformed by disability, when they are people who spend a whole life working, with dignity and with redoubled effort. And the gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament, who say that this could have been resolved, will continue to perpetuate the regime so far in force, will condemn these people to go through their indignity to be considered invalid. Now, these people are not disabled, they are people who deserve esteem, they deserve consideration, and who therefore deserve the right to be reformed at the age of 55. This is our question. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u88	Mrs. Members, let us move to the next point of our agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Bill Nos 523 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) — Extension of the time limit for the holding of safe houses by firearms holders(1). the amendment to Law No 50 / 2019 of 24 July ), and 554 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Consecrates an extraordinary period of voluntary delivery of unexpressed or registered firearms, together with the Draft Resolution No 526 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government prohibit the use of lead in munitions of kinetic activity and in firing camps. The first speaker is the CFP, and Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u89	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The initiative that the CFP brings to this debate is a very simple initiative, which we consider to be relevant and which has to do with precisely the moment the country is going through and with the circumstances that arise there. What happens is that in the summer of 2019 there was an amendment to the arms law — Law No. 50 / 2019 — which changed the law that was already coming from 2006 and which had already had several amendments. This amendment has determined that anyone with a firearm must have a metal safe approved, according to a European standard, in order to keep that weapon. We are talking about legal detainees, people who have legalized weapons and who have a legitimate reason to have them, but the law has established — and well — that these weapons must be kept in security and for that reason determined the obligation of the existence of a safe deposit box, which corresponds to legal requirements, for that purpose. Thus, the law established that the holding of that safe should be tested by the end of September by 23 September 2020. But in recent months, from the beginning of the pandemic, it has become extremely difficult to obtain these safes on the market. They are not exactly a common consumer goods, there are not many manufacturers, and therefore it has become very difficult to do so, if not impossible, for many weapons holders who, within the legal period, wanted to buy their safe. Now, what happens is that the fine is €700 and it seems extremely unfair to us, and this has been warned by several sectors of interested people, that because someone cannot buy a safe within the deadline it is subject to that fine. Therefore, it seems to us perfectly justified that this deadline can be extended for a few months, so the proposal that the CFP here makes is that this deadline should be extended until the next month of July 2021, and we hope that the circumstances leading to this proposal will no longer be seen, that the legal provisions actually enter into force and that there will no longer be any further extensions. It is a question of adapting the existing legislation, with a simple extension, so that people have time to purchase a safe which clearly did not have the possibility to acquire within their time frame. This is what the CFP here proposes, hoping that there will be a consensus in this House to make this surgical adaptation to our legislation in order not to make life for many people in an unjustifiable way. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u90	I begin by congratulating the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The next intervention is for Mrs Cecilia Meireles to present the legislative initiative of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today a legislative initiative to extend the deadline for the delivery or legalization of weapons. This initiative is based on the following: the approval of Law No. 50 / 2019 provided for a period of six months, after the entry into force of that law, for the owners of firearms, who were not manifest or registered, of the two, one, or for their voluntary surrender in favour of the State, without criminal proceedings, or for legalization, without counter-ordering procedure, which obviously involves the payment of fines. The deadline for fulfilling this obligation, this six-month period, ended on 22 March. Now, on 22 March, as is general knowledge, we were already in pandemic. However, it had been determined by order that weapons could be received at any premises or territorial unit of the GNR ( Republican National Guard ) or the PSP ( Public Security Police ) at any point in the country. When the pandemic arrived, and in the face of the difficulties we all knew about the state of emergency, what happened was that there was a huge reduction in the places where this delivery or legalization could be carried out. Basically, she was able to do only in the PSP's arms and explosives department in Lisbon or in the weapons and explosives cores of the PSP's commands. Result? A huge confusion, a logistical nightmare and the fact that many people who wanted to voluntarily proceed to this delivery could not do so. What we are now proposing is a grace period, an additional period in which, after these periods of confinement or almost confinement, the delivery or legalization of weapons, without payment of fines, can be made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u92	To present its legislative initiative, Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Lead is a cumulative toxic that affects several systems of the body and is particularly harmful to children. People may be exposed to lead by inhalation and environmental contamination. As soon as lead enters the body, it is distributed to organs such as brain, kidneys, liver and bones. The body also stores lead in the teeth and bones, where it accumulates with time and can be immobilized in the blood during pregnancy, thus exposing the fetus and can cause spontaneous abortion, dead birth, premature delivery and low birth weight. There is no level of exposure to lead without harmful effects. The Institute for Metrics and Health Assessment estimates that, in 2017, exposure to lead was responsible for more than one million deaths and 24 million years of healthy life lost worldwide due to long-term health effects. The same Institute also estimates that in 2016 exposure to lead was responsible for 63 % of intellectual deficiency, 10 % of hypertensive heart disease, 5 % of ischemic heart disease and 6 % of stroke (brain vascular accident). Taking into account the harmful effects of lead, Portugal has in recent years adopted several measures that have led to the progressive removal of lead from a set of products such as gas, paints or water pipes. However, the dispersion of lead through hunting remains one of the forms of introduction of lead into nature. There are data that are scattered in nature between 150 and 200 tons of lead per year through kinetic activity. Some of these lead lies in animals and others are lost in nature. There is evidence of lead intake, particularly by birds, that confuse them with the stones that usually ingest in the digestive process. With lead intake, birds develop symptoms of Saturnism, a lethal disease. There is still the risk of these birds being integrated into the food chain, either by predation of other animals or in the hunting process itself, which constitutes a risk to public health. On the other hand, also in the activity of complexes, careers and firing fields, the use of lead munitions can cause serious damage to the environment, due to contamination of water resources and soils, thereby impacting flora, fauna and people. There are already restrictions on the use of lead munitions in 23 wet areas defined in the portal. They are areas essentially included in a special protection zone for nature conservation. But that's not enough. In 2016, the European Chemicals Agency ( ECHA) concluded that, and I quote, « considering the feasibility of its implementation, a restriction of all lead munition uses will be the most appropriate measure to apply at the level of the European Union ». In the European context, the use of lead munitions in cinematic activity has already been totally banned in countries such as the Netherlands, Denmark and Norway. In view of the extremely toxic effects of lead, all measures that eliminate the use of this metal with extremely harmful effects on public health, fauna and ecosystems are priority. It can be read in the General Basics of Hunting Law that it establishes the guiding principles that should guide the kinetic activity in its different aspects, with special emphasis on the conservation of the environment. Therefore, it is time to update and end this incoherence of spreading lead in the environment and entering the food chain. The NAP therefore brings this initiative to the Assembly of the Republic, which aims to prohibit the use of lead in munitions of kinetic activity and shooting camps.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u94	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now moving to the stage of the debate and speaking on behalf of the PSD is Mrs Emília Cerqueira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I will share this intervention in two parts. On the other hand, we have two bills, that of the CDS and that of the PCP, and they are both based on what, in fact, is reality and that it is a problem that is the owner of firearms in this country feels supermania. With regard to the proposal of the CDS, extending the deadline, the PSD believes that in fact it makes all the sense, until all the data have shown that the delivery of non-prohibited or illegal weapons had an exponential increase from year to year, except in 2020, because the constraints that were experienced because of the COVID, ended up not allowing the simple delivery that was planned to be made. in the same way, there were also constraints with the safes, taking into account the fact that much of these safes, because it has to be a very specific model, to be manufactured in Spain and the factory has closed its service. So we saw the weapons carriers with great constraints to acquire the safe and prove this acquisition. in this sense, it is necessary, in fact, to create the conditions so that it can be fulfilled, until failure to comply is not imputable to the parties, but the circumstances which are not controlled by anyone, before, are the result of the moment in which we live. on the other hand, we have the draft resolution of the NAP that, in the last paragraph, in the last breath, showed what I wanted. What Mr André Silva wants is to end the hunt and then part of half-truths to build a narrative. Let's go somewhere. First, as for lead in the shooting fields, there are such half-truths to tell a lie: it uses lead, yes, but currently it is already collected and recycled. Therefore, it is a non-truth and a non-question, but it should be said that lead is harmful to create here a discourse and a narrative. Then, with regard to the kinetic activity and the use of lead, the honourable Member also comes with his half-truths to build a narrative which, in fact, is a lie, and must be said. But he insists and persists, in order to convince us, and then comes with the well-prepared speech of the evils of lead, which are indisputable. We say that lead has been removed from the pipes, from here and from there is unquestionable, but then also the question of birds and Saturnism arises. Of course, it expressly omits, because it is interested in omitting, that the problem of Saturnism in birds related to lead intake has to do with aquatic birds, for which lead is already banned. It's such half-truths that the NAP systematically likes to give us. But then he also said that it was already banned in some countries, such as the Netherlands and Denmark, forgetting to say that it also refers to hunting in wetlands. In fact, it is enough to think about the land orography of these countries. So we create a narrative, from it we create facts, and we do not lie, because, indeed, of what has been said, we have managed to remove sentences, all of them, true, Mr, but forget to put them on the one that is the real context in which they are delivered. We understand that this is not in the interest of the NAP, which in fact has such disrespect for the conservation of nature linked to the kinetic activity which presents these proposals often without account, little caring for what the rest of Parliament thinks. This proposal has now been plunged into the debate on the Budget—as if it were interested in those who act only on a populist and disrespectful agenda. It is very easy to come here to say, systematically, it seems that they are the good ones of the tape, that the hunters, the bad ones of the tape—think! — they even use lead and pollute our territories. But they forget, in this speech, that these bad tapes, which they talk about so much, made the lynx of Malcata had been recovered. Yes, because it was the kinetic species that they put there that made it continue to exist. And the NAP feels the most and it considers spectacular to say "we have the recovery of the lynx" here, but it does not matter to you to use the whole truth. That is intellectual evil, which we are already used to, over and over again. The lack of seriousness in thought and intellectual evil with which it gives us systematically, to seem to be kind, is something that is almost offensive to everyone who defends the territory. The PSD has always been with best environmental practices, in fact, has many scrolls in these matters over the years. However, using wrong, false, distorted data is unacceptable. More: it should be added, because it seems to have forgotten, that this issue is being examined and studied in the European Union, which is trying to create a regime for better use of lead. These are the practices that Portugal must follow and that the PSD defends, as a responsible party that it is, with respect for the territory and for all the ways of life that enter the territory and not for those who the NAP thinks it has to impose on the rest of the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u96	The next intervention is the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which has indicated to the Bureau that it will be an intervention shared by two Members. Members who will manage time in the way they understand. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Paulo Porto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Law No. 50 / 2019 of 24 July amending the legal regime for arms and ammunition, approved by Law No. 5 / 2006 of 23 February 2006 introduced the obligation of firearm holders to possess, for the custody of non-portable weapons, safe deposit boxes or safety cabinets, with a minimum safety level in accordance with European standard EN 14450 — S1 or equivalent security level. The same legal diploma in Article 7 thereof. o — Transitional rule provides that firearm owners who are obliged to own safe or non-portable cabinets shall submit the evidence on the electronic platform made available by the PSP, in particular invoice receipt, or equivalent document, or, in the case of safe house or fortified, the verification of security conditions within one year after the entry into force of the law, i.e. by 23 September 2020. The Bill No. 523 / XIV / 2. the proposal proposes that the deadline for the implementation of Article 7. o — Own safe — be extended until 31 July 2021. Logically, the effects of the pandemic, which had an impact on all sectors, also affected commercial establishments engaged in the marketing of this type of material, which were closed during the duration of the state of emergency, which certainly affected the purchase/availability of the safes for this purpose, taking into account the increase in demand, depending on the legal obligation. In view of this reality, it is reasonable that due to the constraints caused by the pandemic and the said difficulties in the acquisition of the safes, the time limit for the implementation of the standard is extended, being consistent with the expansion of the deadline until the date indicated, i.e., 31 July 2021. As regards the Bill No. 554 / XIV / 2. the, it is noteworthy that it was defined on 22 March 2020 as a deadline for the delivery of unexpressed weapons, and the first state of emergency was decreed on 18 March 2020, i.e. four days before the deadline. However, given the pandemic situation, the deadline for arms delivery was extended until 3 July 2020. It is therefore clear that, unlike the above, there has been no damage to these citizens, due to the direct effects caused by the pandemic, there has been an extension of the deadline for the delivery of weapons. Having said this, it is clear that the exceptional periods of delivery of weapons without criminal repercussions must be effectively exceptional, under the penalty of enhancing the creation of a feeling of impunity and excessive tolerance in relation to the fulfilment of legal deadlines, with all the drawbacks that this may entail for public security. It is stressed that the data obtained by the PSP by 3 July point to an arms delivery number higher than the registered number in 2006, as in 2006 approximately 6600 weapons were delivered and by 2020 data point to more than 7200 weapons received. In view of the arguments contained in the bill under discussion and the analysis of the cost/benefit of adopting this initiative, in safe terms, it is understood that the project deserves to be rejected. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u98	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr António Gameiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My intervention is justified only to highlight the opportunity of the PCP bill, which, in good time, entered this Chamber, because it has solved a national problem. The import of the boxes was alibied by the COVID itself, as it has already been very well emphasized here, and created a difficulty since our authorities cannot stop acting, nor will they do so. But at the same time, citizens are embarrassed by the fact that not even what we put in the arms law of 2019, any receipt or bill of purchase can be met. The gunmen in Portugal are prevented from doing so because they have no safes available, since the mother-source, the factory, does not produce them. We, as the PS Parliamentary Group, would also like to draw attention to the possibility of another one or two subparagraphs being changed in the field of specialty to solve problems of interpretation of regulations that have been put by the PSP, in particular with regard to Article 12 ( 6 ). the, with regard to the allocation of licence D and E to those who are holders of licence C. It seems clear that, who has license C, has the D, who has license D, has the E, so who has license C, has the E, but the PSP, for any reason, has come to make a different interpretation. It is therefore necessary to clarify this matter definitively in order to provide legal certainty to a market which has a value for GDP of more than EUR 800 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u100	The next item is Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I tabled the PCP bill, but I did not mention in my first speech why that was not the objective of the other legislative initiatives under discussion. However, I would also like to mention only one aspect regarding the CFP project. It is not a matter of solving the problem of those who did not or did not wish to comply within the time limit with the purchase of the safe. It is that many people, when they wanted to acquire it, simply did not exist! There were no safe boxes on the market so that people would be able to acquire them within the time limit so that they could keep their weapons. The project presented by the CDS is relevant. In fact, I remember that even at the time of the 2019 Act, until the proposal of the CFP, a new period for voluntary delivery of weapons which were in an illegal situation was introduced, as had been done in 2006, when the original version of the arms law was approved. Therefore, it also makes sense that a period of voluntary arms delivery can be opened. That's always positive. We don't want any illegal weapons.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u102	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u103	...so it makes sense that anyone who holds an illegal weapon, or because he inherited it from a family member who has died in the meantime or because, for any reason, he does not want to have the weapon, he can hand it over to the State and stop having it, because that is something positive for everyone. We therefore believe that all illegal weapons that can be delivered are positive, so the CDS initiative will also have our agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u105	With regard to the NAP draft resolution, the NAP once again used our kindness as regards the possibility of dragging initiatives that have nothing to do with the scheduling.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u106	That's the case!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u107	Therefore, the NAP is due to our benevolence the possibility of presenting a legislative initiative that has nothing to do with the PCP bill, which has sparked this agenda, nor with the CDS bill, which has been dragged, which has allowed that, once again,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u108	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u109	... we had here an episode of the hate speech against hunting, somehow camouflaged, with «the problem is lead». Don't! The problem is not the lead, because it has already been said by Mrs Emília Cerqueira that there are measures that have been taken in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u110	Mr. Deputies, I appreciate your conclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u111	Mr President, then, once I have the final two minutes, I will re-subscribe myself.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u112	That will be the case, Mr President. You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of BE, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We will accompany the draft laws of the CDS and the PCP. We understand that your claims are fair. In the case of the PCP, the intention is to solve a practical problem, which is that of preventing compliance with the law. The law determines that the weapons are stored in safes. However, if the production of safes is not being guaranteed, even more for the reasons of the pandemic, it is of course fair that this period can be extended for the law to be met and, in the same way, it is also fair for the deadlines to be extended to allow the legalization of weapons. Illegality is always a condition of insecurity. For us, the most important thing, and that is the background we must never forget in this debate, is to ensure that all conditions and, more than that, I would say, all security restrictions, access and use of firearms, are ensured in a country where many of these firearms are still found in violent crimes, particularly in domestic violence crimes. This was one of the purposes that was at the origin of the law that aimed to legalize and prevent the spread of these weapons, so we understand that these bills aim to contribute so that this law can be put into practice and fulfilled, and we will accompany them, so.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u114	Mr André Silva has the floor for a short speech on behalf of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u115	Mr. President, Mr. Members Emília Cerqueira, PSD, and Antonio Filipe, of the PCP, have done no more than what we are already used to in the area of environmental preservation and animal rights: the worse, the better!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u116	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u117	PCP and PSD, always hands given in this matter! Regardless of the position that each of us may have in relation to the kinetic activity, what is at stake here is the updating of the rules that the sector refuses to make.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u118	Mr. Deputies, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u119	I will now finish, Mr President. Therefore, the sector, which wants to lead in everything that moves, refuses to make progress in its activity, which is a legal activity, and continues with absolutely cruel practices and environmental damage. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u120	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u121	You want to perpetuate kinetic activity at any cost and in the 21st century this is no longer admissible, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u122	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the draft law of the CDS, I would like to say the following: I understand the objection that there cannot be an extension after extension after extension. However, I would like to remind you that during the pandemic, the places where arms can be delivered were greatly reduced because of this pandemic. So it makes sense that there is a new period. Furthermore, as has already been said, the objective of this legislation is precisely that there are no illegal weapons. Therefore, all that is to allow people who inherit a weapon or who were not in parallel with the period to make their legalization - it seems to me that it should be welcome. Of course, the initiative put forward by the CFP also deserves our full agreement, until we are talking about people who wanted to comply and could not because they did not have access to these safes. On the draft resolution presented by the NAP, this initiative looks like an environmental project, but in reality it is a project that has to do with the NAP's position against hunting. We are going to have a debate this afternoon in which we can discuss exactly that. Now, if there were any doubts... I have just heard in this plenary, the hunting sector, all hunters in Portugal are described as, and I quote, « people who want to lead in everything that moves». I've never hunted down, Mr. Deputies, but I think this is offensive. This is no way in the Portuguese Parliament to refer to Portuguese who have dignity, either those who like to hunt or those who are not hunters.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u124	With no further requests for speech, we are moving to the closing stage, so Mr António Filipe has the floor for this purpose of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u125	Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to welcome the general sense of this debate and the possibility of adopting what the CFP proposed here, which is a very simple and consensual thing. However, I cannot fail to note that Mr André Silva has benefited from our kindness, which has allowed him to schedule a matter which has nothing to do with the original agenda, but, instead of thanking us, with the arrogance of the custom, he has still attacked us. [[PSD member João Gomes Marques' laughs.]] So for the next time, we will have to be less benevolent towards the parliamentary trafly to which the NAP has been getting used to. We'll have to be careful. This is because, if the NAP takes advantage of a good-faith schedule, and then comes, as is usually said in good Portuguese, to sorrelfa, to schedule something that has nothing strictly to do with, just to come here with one more initiative, which is the "I don't know how much" initiative only to attack people who are engaged in kinetic activity, then, when you want to schedule these initiatives, you will use your schedule, and quite well, it will be in your legitimate right. But we are also in our legitimate right to say that the NAP initiative does not have our agreement. We have not objected to it being scheduled, but of course it will not have our support, because it is not, in fact, the way of the overt prohibitionism that solves the problems of hunting regulation. Hunting must be regulated, but we do not advocate prohibitionisms headed as a way to put an end to the cinematic activity in our country, provided it is regulated, as it has been. [[Congratulations on the PCP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u126	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes this item on our agenda. We move on to point 5, which consists of the assessment of the Resolution Project No. 693 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government disclose information on COVID-19 in a school context and develop a screening programme. I have the floor to present this initiative on behalf of the proposed Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: this year, about 1, 2 million students from pre-school education to secondary school, to which approximately 210 thousand teachers and non-teachers, distributed by about 800 groups and, in turn, about 5000 schools face an unprecedented scenario, with new forms of organization and a set of health rules and care to prevent and manage the impacts of COVID-19. In spite of all the precautionary measures that have been put on the return to school in presence, in this time of pandemic, it is clear that this entails risks that are taken and has, of course, also had consequences in both Portugal and other countries. We are now finishing the first period, there are only a few days left, and school communities, the general public and Parliament have only access to information on these consequences of the pandemic in school contexts in a vulva and casuistic manner. None of the guardianships, whether of education or of health, regularly informs, for example, monthly, about how many schools have registered outbreaks, how many classes have been placed in distance education, how many students, teachers or non-teachers are infected or in isolation. The partial and unofficial information to which we have access, often only through social communication, can generate a wrong perception about the security of present education. We have had in the CDS Parliamentary Group and I believe that in the other parliamentary groups too, we have had complaints from teachers and teachers about this opacity. We have already reached the Education, Science, Youth and Sport Committee with a petition that, in fear of lack of security in schools, asks parents to choose not to have their children in the present system and to stay in distance education, which we all know is not the recommended option. The best brake for all these alarms would be the regular and transparent provision of information by the Ministry of Education. This information is also indispensable for the management of the pandemic, either from the public health point of view or from the point of view of the school's organization. Without this systematized data collection it is not possible to evaluate the evolution of the situation, it is not possible to compare it with other national contact indicators, it is not possible to measure the effectiveness of the protocols that are in force in schools and, therefore, to adjust what is necessary to adjust. On the other hand, we also know that children and young people of school age are vectors of contagion and are not immune to COVID-19. Last December 3rd, at the Infarmed meeting, it was found that, between the beginning of October, when, more or less, the school year began, and the end of November, the incidence of cases per 100,000 inhabitants, between the ages of 10 and 20 years, increased from 88 to 734 infected. Of course, this reality has to be reflected in schools and there will certainly be a very large number of asymptomatics that are not detected. But even though the government announced, at the beginning of October, that it would carry out rapid tests in schools, the fact is that they still do not have any information on the subject. Nothing has happened and, in schools where several generations live, school leaders ask when these rapid antigen tests will be carried out. The response from the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ) is that, and I quote, « will explain its time », i.e. « its », i.e. the time of DGS rather than the time of the real need of schools. Therefore, since it is not possible, nor recommended, the mass testing of the entire school community, we would find it well that a sampling screening program was carried out to control these outbreaks. In short, therefore, the CSD Parliamentary Group proposes, on the one hand, that the Government disclose, on a regular basis, the incidence of COVID outbreaks in schools and their effects in terms of classes, students, teachers and non-teachers covered and, on the other hand, that, together with the Directorate-General for Health, develop and implement, in fact, the sampling programme in case of outbreaks, throughout the school year or during the pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u128	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative wants to devote this "liberal minute" to all schools. We have always defended the important role of the school as a social elevator. This role added, during the pandemic, another no less important role: that of the viability of the gradual resumes of the professional life of hundreds of thousands of Portuguese. The closure of schools for most teaching cycles, starting in March, forced mothers and parents who work to ensure, at the same time, their own work and the follow-up of their children's studies. The physical and mental effort of both parents and students during this period of confinement was tremendous. In particular, children and young people were deprived of contact with teachers, friends and important opportunities for learning and socialization. I believe, moreover, that the real cost of this deprivation is still to be understood in its full extent and complexity. In turn, the reopening of schools, which we have always defended, was thus a return of students, parents and teachers to something more like normal. It is part of this normality that this process of learning resumes does not suffer from setbacks, but it will be possible only if the entire school community feels that it is safe from the health point of view. Therefore, we will support this draft resolution, presented by the CDS, because we believe that the carrying out of sampling tests contributes to a safer school environment, so that such a social elevator will work again.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u130	The next intervention is the PS Parliamentary Group, so I give the floor to Mrs Joaquina Matos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the explanatory statement of this draft resolution presented by the CDS-PP, it is reported that around 5000 national schools face an unprecedented scenario this academic year with new forms of organization and a set of health rules and care to prevent and manage the impacts of COVID 19. And, yes, Mrs. Members, it is unpublished, very unpublished, the scenario that lives in schools, and it has demanded a lot of work in creating new forms of organization and in scheduling the start of this school year. Within the gradual policy of defining adopted by the government, in the construction of a solution of balance for the resumption of economic, social and cultural activities and safeguarding public health, this school year began with the greatest objective of ensuring educational and non-formal activities in school space, in presence. For this new context, in close collaboration with the Ministry of Health, a set of exceptional guidelines was produced by the Ministry of Education for the organization and operation of schools, which guarantee conditions of health safety and ensure the creation of an environment of confidence, conducive to overcoming difficulties. Strategies were defined in view of the uncertainties regarding the evolution of the virus, giving priority to the prevention of the disease and minimization of risks, through a set of preventive measures, mechanisms and procedures for early detection of possible cases of infection and effective management, always in conjunction with local health authorities and as defined in the contingency plans of each school. In collaboration with DGS, the Ministry of Education established guidance for the reorganization of school spaces, considering the specificities of each local context, in an appropriate way to the new management of routines, materials and activities. It is a new pedagogical routine that is being built, every day, in schools, in the use of mask, social distance, in the repeated cleaning and disinfection of spaces and materials, in the suspension of events, meetings, meetings. The school, a place of excellent learning, a place of conviviality, socialization and joy, has prepared itself to face the viral attack and protect its members, especially the children and young people who are at their guard, and, no doubt, today are the safest and most prepared places to meet the challenges of the situation, which we continue to face every day. It must be acknowledged that, from the first hour, education professionals, from the directors and their teams to teaching and non-teaching staff, technicians in the area, parents and teachers, with the collaboration of local authorities, fregetal boards and municipal chambers, have combined efforts to meet the challenges of achieving a "new normality", a normality that provides an environment for students' learning, at this time of all uncertainties and doubts, which should mobilize us to reflect on the imprecisibility in the world and the changes present, in summary, on human fragility in the face of the unexpected. For the daily work of health control and the fight against pandemic, it is the responsibility of the Directorate-General for Health, in its daily briefings, to pass the updated information, by the council, ensuring all transparency and all rigour in the dissemination of data, in order to provide the population and, above all, to the responsible, national and local authorities, the means to achieve the appropriate and effective answers to specific situations. at this time, and as far as schools are concerned, rather than creating noise, to cast mistrust for the feeling of a alleged lack of transparency in numbers is to provide the creation of a climate of insecurity, instability, propitious to ride populisms, and the important one here, to ensure the success of the school in the adverse conditions we have had, is to continue the fight against the virus, within the work and responsibility of the competent authorities, in reference to the Directorate-General for Health. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u132	Thank you very much, Mrs Joaquina Matos, also for the scrupulous fulfillment of time. For an intervention, you now have the floor, by the Left Block, Mrs Alexandra Vieira. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have spent a classy period in exceptional and difficult conditions for the entire educational community, with reflections on the learnings of students and students and with psychological effects throughout the educational community, which is important to take into account: classes with part of the students at home, entire classes confined, teachers and employees in isolation, students entering confinement, return and return to confinement. But the Ministry of Education says nothing about what is really going on, particularly by not responding to directors, trade union structures, parents and parliamentary groups. By the Ministry of Education, everything is going on with all normality, because that is what his silence tells us. However, it is found that there is not only much misunderstanding about the procedures and methods, which needed more information and standardization and also more means. The door to arbitrariness is open, as we have already had the opportunity to draw attention. Each director does as he understands, will do the best he can with the little he has, but we already know of cases of work overload by the teachers of the classes with students at home. Many teachers are required to follow these students after their school hours. in other cases, the miracle solution is to put a webcam in each classroom, transmitting through the internet, even if the teacher does not agree—and rightly given that they are concerned about privacy issues, right to image protection and data protection. The question is even to know why there is no organized information system on the pandemic in the school network, with objective data, information and guidance. The latest information from the Ministry of Education dates back to the end of the previous academic year and after that nothing else was heard. Is there no need to correct procedures and implement others? By the way, we remember that there is still the teaching balance at a distance from 3. the period. On the draft resolution of the CDS, as Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, of course, knows, there is a petition by the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) on this matter, that of screening to the entire community as well as other projects on this subject, particularly the Left Block. However, we have nothing against the presentation of the CDS project. Trade union structures, for their part, from the very first moment, have drawn attention to the insufficiency and particularity of many guidelines given by the Ministry of Education, from the size of the classes to the solutions of putting strips to divide the tables of two places and the fact that they are the students and the students who do hygiene. All this happens because the Ministry of Education did not want to hear or consider the abundant suggestions. Risk group teachers, for example, can only be in isolation with 30-day risk statement and after that are on their own and at risk. Teacher replacement mechanisms continue to be the same, as if there was no pandemic and there were long periods when students were without classes and would probably stay until the next school year. Shouldn't there be an exception in this case? And on the link between the Ministry of Education and DGS, do they meet regularly? Are there memos of these meetings? For example, do we know more about the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 into the paediatric population? But the most overwhelming still is the silence of the Ministry of Education and the refusal to meet with trade union structures and the lack of answer to questions. It is our understanding that schools are also front lines, which deserve attention and care, constant monitoring and, above all, clarifications, information and updating of guidelines. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u134	On behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Return to school was very much desired by the school community. It could not be otherwise, because the school is an area of learning, sharing, development and, above all, an area of freedom. Nothing replaces the present classes and, in addition to those left behind for economic and social reasons, the months of confinement and absence of the school will have impacts, which we cannot yet assess, at the psychological level or the learning difficulties, which may have been more marked. during this first period, we attended school communities to remedy without operational assistants, to remedy in support of students who are in isolation, students who are at risk and cannot go to presence classes, to remedy without the materials needed for students and teachers in these uncertain days. And there is one issue that has worried the school community and, in particular, the teachers, who have echoed this because of FENPROF, which is the characterization of the situation in schools with regard to the spread of COVID-19. Many are the praises to the organization of schools, teachers, operational assistants and much has been heard to say that schools are safe spaces for everyone's effort. This is not a little important element of stability, of the confidence of all those who, every day, interact in school. And so the question is whether the government really knows what is going on in schools and has the means to know it. The Greens questioned the government at the last hearing in the Education Commission in October, asking the following questions: how does the Ministry monitor this? Are scattered information that schools can give to regional directions and that they can transmit to the ministry, with evaluation criteria and with diversified approaches sufficient for strict measurement of the evaluation? Does the government not see advantages in creating a platform for schools to report the existing cases properly characterized, with clear criteria for faithfully portraying the situation at every moment? These are questions to which we did not get an answer and to which we referred again in the discussion on the state of emergency report, last Friday, in this House, regretting that no more concrete figures are available on the impact of the pandemic on schools, in order to measure the spread of the virus in school context. We still do not understand how a government that raises the flag of the construction of a digital society continues to wave aside and is not able to build a platform that guarantees transparency and information, so necessary to ensure the safety so important that the present classes run without creating more anxiety and fear in the school community.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u136	The next intervention is by Mrs Bebiana Silva of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this subject, we would like to recall that the NAP requested a hearing from the Minister of Education at the beginning of the school year, precisely because it considered that there were no safe and clear procedures in the information, particularly in the data relating to infections in school. Those who are the data currently present are not of greater concern to health authorities, but the data also show that infections have grown among younger people. A meta-analysis of 32 prevalence studies indicates that it is not yet possible to conclude that the transmission of SARS-CoV-2 by children is lower than that of adults, so we understand that it will be irresponsible to devalue the dissemination role that the younger may have. The number of infections increased exponentially from October, after the reopening of schools and the resumption of economic activities. There has been an increase in cases in people between the ages of 10 and 20 and there will possibly be many undetected asymptomatic cases. And what has happened in schools is that the measures that have been implemented by educational communities have allowed us to caution and minimize the risk and, therefore, we again say that it is essential that schools have guaranteed the means and resources necessary to comply with the health measures that are required at a time like this. We also consider the issue that the CDS here brings, transparency of information and data communication, so that the educational community can have greater confidence in the measures and effectiveness of the data, as well as in the protection of all actors in the educational community. We also understand that sampling testing, if voluntary, is an important strategy in the detection of infections, particularly in asymptomatic people, appropriate to larger-scale contexts, and we also know that educational communities have expressed this will. This is a preventive assessment, which allows to identify and act in contexts of transmission risk in the community, while at the same time reassuring educational agents. But as important as it is for us to ensure that the procedures and protocols of reference and action are, in fact, speedy, effective and homogeneous, not devaluing the risk of contagion in school context without, of course, forgetting what specialists continue to repeat: that we still know little about this virus.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u138	Also for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Maria Gabriela Fonseca has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS expresses, on this initiative, a set of concerns and recommendations that the PSD accompanies. In June, the PSD questioned the Minister of Education whether the government was planning to trace education professionals, but once again silence was the answer. The PSD also questioned the Ministry of Health about the fact that the reports of the situation, issued by DGS, do not contain information disaggregated by municipality regarding confirmed cases of COVID-19. The answer was the same. The Director General of Health, when quantified the number of cases COVID-19 or outbreaks in school context, stressed that they had been reported to her. The Under-Secretary of State and Health had already publicly to be rectified when referring to positive cases or outcomes in schools. Real, regular and transparent information by the Ministry of Education is non-existent and worrying. The information is the one we will have access to in contact with schools and parents. There is no link between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education. Basically, what this project recommends is that the Government disclose the data it is supposed to have already collected. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u140	However, rather than divulging the disaggregated data collected on the platform, which has become another bureaucratic burden on schools, all this information must be at the Ministry of Education's huge "data cemetery". Despite the worsening pandemic, in which schools are no exception, I think, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Education has gone to silence! The Minister of Education has never been able to appear and to address words of encouragement, confidence, tranquility and even recognition to the school community when the situation requires it to do so. It's true, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Minister of Education seems to have disappeared in combat, without ever giving clear, accurate and transparent information to the school community, which has generated anxiety and insecurity in students, parents, teachers and assistants, with disparate procedures in decision-making. This means that the options taken cannot be scrutinized. The opacity in which you live, without regular and systematic information, has not allowed you to evaluate the situation, measure the effectiveness of existing protocols in schools, or have led to decision-making with the same criteria. Although the government has announced rapid testing in schools, the fact is that they are only effective in the case of a student with symptoms. There are classes, in several schools, with several students who tested positive for the COVID-19, but teachers and assistants were never tested, as well as the other students in the class. We are aware that each health delegate decides for itself, each one decides for its own criteria. What has happened in Póvoa do Lannoso or Vila Verde, for example, is not the same as in Braga, Guimarães or Coimbra. in a school with a positive case in a class of 1. the cycle, this class was closed and in a class of 15 students of professional education with eight positive cases the present classes continued for the other students. in the same council, at the same level of teaching, a class was closed with one positive case and others not, and under the same circumstances. We understand that they do not want to close classes with positive cases of COVID-19 in the 2. o is 3. cycles and secondary education, because the promised computers have not yet reached all schools and students go home without access to classes at distance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u141	Students, parents, school leaders, teachers and non-teachers, deputies and autarchs, who do everything for their territories and their people, deserve more consideration, and the health crisis can only be controlled with regular, complete, credible and systematized information. These are the ones that, in the field, make school happen every day. Unfortunately, with regard to the responsibility of the Government, centred on the figure of the Minister, the Government failed. It's time to act and not react. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u142	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP considers that the measures that contribute to strengthening the face-to-face frequency of teaching are important, with information, transparent and systematized, of course, a considerable element, and can contribute to strengthening the confidence of the educational community, provided it is ensured that it does not contribute in any way to views, including stigmatizing views, groups, zones, regions, contexts. And these matters are, as we all have to understand, naturally sensitive and deserve careful reflection and intervention. It also considers the CFP that the health authorities, by means of the available scientific data, should take all necessary measures to safeguard and protect the health of the populations, in accordance with the responsibilities to which they are affected, and should not, in any way, replace what science and health authorities should do, but also not resign themselves to follow these matters. Therefore, it is clear that the PCP accompanies the health concerns of all those who are in schools. We believe that these concerns cannot be devalued and should be addressed with the necessary serenity and the sense of helping to solve what is in fact a problem. If information and knowledge are important to combat the pandemic, we cannot fail to take advantage of this opportunity, given by the discussion of this draft resolution, to say that there are several other fundamental measures to ensure health security and that they have to be implemented and that are even the direct responsibility of the Ministry of Education. They can, in fact, intervene at the origin and root of the problem—and, in fact, until tomorrow, they will be the subject of demand, among other issues, in the teachers' strike called by FenPROF, which we have already welcomed. Some of the measures claimed by teachers are, for example, the case of the urgent strengthening of the number of workers. This is a logical question, which the PCP often brought here, even taking into account the increased needs of cleaning, disinfection of rooms, common spaces and maintenance of schools. Another of the demands that teachers bring tomorrow in the struggle they will carry out is the existence that must occur in all schools of personal protective equipment suitable and in sufficient number for workers and students. The need also to promote the possibility of physical distancement, for which it would be essential — and we all have discussed this here — in particular the reduction of the number of students per class. These are claims that the CFP has accompanied, with concrete proposals and measures, alongside others that are crucial to dealing with the pandemic. We cannot stop talking about them here, such as strengthening and improving public transport and a great strengthening of workers, resources and means in the National Health Service. The CFP will continue to do everything possible to ensure that schools have all the conditions of health security, so that present education can be conducted in a just and peaceful manner, combating all kinds of feelings of instability and ensuring that there is indeed health security in all schools in the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u144	With no further inscriptions to speak on this point, you have the floor to close the debate, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this discussion, there seems to be a relatively calm consensus among all parliamentary groups, with the exception of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, on the importance and need for transparent information on school outcomes. If I understood Mrs Joaquina Matos' intervention, for the PS this information, to be made public, to create confusion, to generate alarmism, in a kind of childishization of educational communities, and therefore the ideal is that there is no information, because if there is no information, and above all, if we do not ask, everything will be calmer and we, basically, must trust, I suppose, the PS and the good performance of the government in this matter. As, moreover, we have to trust that there will be a vaccination plan, and ask little, until we do very much work, if that is the preference. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] With regard to the second part of the draft resolution of the CDS, which has to do with a screening programme, I did not actually hear Mrs Deputy talk about it specifically. I would like to say the following: at the end of October, the national strategy for SARS-CoV-2 was published, which said that, in situations of outbreak, such as in educational establishments, rapid antigen tests carried out by public health teams should be used preferably. All right, there's a plan. There is always a plan in the PS government, but to execute is that it is always more complicated! We've got a plan! But we have nothing more, because the Director of the DGS Quality Department explained that there is no need to worry, there is no disarticulation between DGS and schools, which is a gradual, slow operationalization and implementation of the proximity teams to schools and that everything will be explained in due course. So there is no plan, there is no execution, but there is no problem either, because this is to do slowly. You may even be able to do it until the end of the school year! Let's see if we're lucky!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u146	It's just demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u147	In the meantime, this is a demagogy backed by the school directors—but, finally, we may all be seeing it wrong! — they say that they do not know of anything, that they need clarification in what circumstances tests will be carried out, when tests can be carried out, and they would very much like, says Prof. Filipe Lima, that guardianship would clarify these doubts in the shortest possible time, until that would make schools safer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u148	I would ask you to finish, Madam Commissioner, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u149	I will finish, Mr. President. at this moment it's in the hands of the gentlemen. Members shall ensure that this recommendation is made to the Government and that these instructions are complied with without any demagogy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u150	This item on the agenda is now finished. We move on to the sixth point, which has as its object a wide, vast set of legislative initiatives: the joint assessment, in general, of the Bills No 134 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Visa the prohibition of the manufacture, possession, use and sale of articles which only serve for the capture of wild birds not subject to the exploitation of kinetics and 215 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Removes the bream rabbit from species subject to kinegetic exploitation; discussion of draft resolution No 140 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government establish a temporary moratorium regime for the common roll hunt; and the general discussion of Bills Nos 158 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Bans fox hunting, excludes this species from the list of cinegetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August; 159 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Prohibits hunting of raspberries, excludes this species from the list of cingetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August; 160 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — It prohibits hunting at honey, excludes this species from the list of kinetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August; 161 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — It prohibits hunting by the black grate, excludes this species from the list of cingetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August; 162 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Bans hunting, excludes this species from the list of kinetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August; 163 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — It prohibits the hunting of prey and excludes this species from the list of cingetic species and amends to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August; 586 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — condition the pursuit of the hunt to non-threatening or near-threatening kinetic species and presenting known conservation status ( eighth amendment to Decree-Law No 202 / 2004 of 18 August ) and 587 / XIV / 2. a ( BE ) — prohibits the production, possession, use and marketing of the means and forms applied exclusively for the capture or slaughter of non-cinegetic specimens of wild birds ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 140 / 99 of 24 April ). To present the legislative initiative of the Peoples, Animals and Nature Party ( PAN ), Mr Inês de Sousa Real has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP is bringing three initiatives to the House today, which, in our view, aim to contribute to curb the decline of some species in Portugal that actually run a serious risk of disappearing. This is a goal that should unite us all, regardless of the political quadrant or the position we may have on the kinetic activity. There are numerous warnings from the scientific community for the decline of species, whether in our country, or in the rest of the planet, at an absolutely overwhelming pace, and the causes are also well known. The UN Conference on Biological Biodiversity itself, an event aimed at bringing the different parties closer to the Convention on Biological Diversity, concluded that the direct exploitation of nature and biodiversity, where hunting is included, is one of the factors that has threatened species. In Portugal, the capture of non-cinegetic wild birds for consumption or for captivity, although illegal, is a reality. A recent study by SPEA ( Portuguese Society for the Birds Study ) estimated that about 40 000 birds are dead to be used in gastronomy and that 10 000 of these same birds are captured for captivity. Contrary to those who have exalted the cultural and economic importance that the kinetic activity can assume in the rural world or who do not intend to question its existence and still defend that this activity should hinge on the slaughter of species with gastronomic value, for the NAP, the value that biodiversity and animal life represent cannot be underestimated. That is why, since there is a clear problem in the illegal capture of birds, including species with great impact on ecosystems, we propose the prohibition of manufacture, possession, use and sale of artifacts that serve only to hunt non-cinegetic species and whose practice is illegal. It does not make any sense that we continue to allow the maintenance of a system and economic chain on tools used for prohibited practices — repeat, prohibited — by the current legislation and thus jeopardizing national and international commitment and effort to the conservation of nature and environmental sustainability, without doing anything. On the other hand, we cannot also ignore the particular decline in certain species, such as the bream rabbit, classified as « in danger ». In addition to the value that this species closes in itself, we cannot neglect the importance that these species have for the survival of other species, including endangered species, such as lynx or iberian wolf in our country, whose conservation projects can hardly avenge if we do not protect all species of this ecosystem, including prey to these predators. We also propose a moratorium on common-roll hunting, a species classified as « vulnerable » and whose population has been in decline since 1980, that is, 40 years ago, without being done to prevent its disappearance, following the decline trend in Europe, which is evidenced by numerous studies and which has also been alerted by the European Union. The pressure on these species, coupled with a lack of effective monitoring, has posed a clear threat to their conservation. If we want to ensure the conservation of species and reverse the destruction of habitats and biodiversity in our country this is the time to act and unite efforts in this regard, based on the opinion and knowledge of organizations and specialists, who have been alerting themselves to the urgent need to intervene to avoid their extinction, putting aside the interests of those who have absolutely negationistly obstructed more effective policies of recovery of these species. If these three proposals presented here today find any voice of opposition, this can only mean support for the extinction of these species and illegal hunting, which is clearly incomprehensible. We want to believe that this is not the position of any of the parties in this House or of any of the Members. or, ladies and gentlemen. At the time of voting, we will be accompanying the one who has to be a commitment not only to civil society, non-governmental organizations and the sphere of concern of future generations, but also to a political concern and commitment to prevent the disappearance of species and the commitment to continue to have a living planet.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u152	To present the various legislative initiatives of the Green Party, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the discussion of this set of proposals, and as a first note, the Greens consider it essential to make legislative changes in order to ensure or to reconcile the various interests involved, from the outset the defense of biodiversity, the kinetic activity, but also the regional development itself or the economic dynamics that the cinematic activity represents, especially in the low density territories. It is therefore necessary to ensure, above all, the preservation of biodiversity, but at the same time, it is necessary not to lose sight of an important figure for the debate that has to do with hunting as an integral part of the rural world. We are talking about an important element, not only as a contribution to combating the abandonment of the rural world, but also to the ecological balance itself and, in terms of hunting, the Greens maintain their position. Since the Chinese resources are well-renewable but finite, measures are required to guarantee and enhance their preservation, particularly within the framework of a policy of spatial planning, bearing in mind that this noble purpose cannot be sought solely by excluding the pursuit of hunting by those who have less economic resources. In fact, the responsibility which, as a human being, is imputed to us in the sense of valuing biodiversity calls on us to extend the horizon of our concerns to species not threatened by extinction in our day and to refuse, without any reservations, the theory or idea lapses, and today, deprived of any sense, that anything that may be stirred can be hunted. For this reason, The Greens understand that the kinetic activity should be linked to the slaughter of species with gastronomic value. We know that, in discussions on this subject, it is often called the argument of population control, but in the Greens' understanding, control of the population cannot be a basis for maintaining the fox, the frog, the honey, the black-grape, the cockroach and the crab among the kinetic species, until, if there is a need for control of populations, it must be done under the supervision or determination of organs that should have as a central concern the eradication of threats to biodiversity, from then the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests ( IUCF ). If control of species is a responsibility of the State, it must be the State, and only the State, to carry out such control. in this context, these legislative initiatives presented by the Greens seek to establish an adequate protective mechanism for these species, until we believe that hunting, never for ever, especially today, can mean reaching an animal for the simple pleasure of killing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u154	You have the floor to present the legislative initiatives of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Protecting biodiversity is one of the challenges of our times. We often witness the dissemination of new studies that have already been appointed and that concern us. These news calls on us to act in order to make changes that allow for the regeneration of the diversity threatened by human action. It is in this sense that European directives have been issued, from time to time, to Habitats and Birds, which aim precisely to protect this threatened biodiversity. Now, Portugal is the fourth European country with more species at risk of extinction, according to the 2019 update of the International Union Red List for Conservation of Nature and Natural Resources of the endangered species. We are talking about 456 species identified in the national territory in the process of extinction. On the other hand, the Red Book of the Vertebrados of Portugal, dated 2005, identifies 175 species in this situation. The causes of biodiversity destruction are diverse. In Portugal we have as one of the main factors the degradation of ecosystems and habitats caused by the effects of the climate crisis. Intensive agricultural and forestry monoculture and the proliferation of invasive exotic species have caused serious damage to the distribution and abundance of numerous species. In addition to biodiversity destruction, there is also over-exploration of living resources, including those used for hunting. We therefore propose, among other measures relating to habitats, already proposed above, particularly with regard to intensive agriculture, the use of scientific information made available nationally and internationally to protect endangered or threatened species and, to this end, we propose that, while these species are not safe, they be removed from the lists of species that may be hunted in our country to remove one of the pressure factors on the populations of these species. Both documents, which we propose to use to cross over the incidence of these species, are written and compiled by scientists and identify not only the species, but also the causes that pressure them. Here is a relevant question for our discussion and reflection and which I invite you to speak with us. Members to analyze: by crossing the national kinetic list with the data contained in the book of the International Union for the Conservation of Nature, the kinetic pressure is referred to as a factor for all 'in danger' species leading to the decline and threat of the species concerned and, we remember, the categories and causes are attributed on the basis of objective criteria, validated by science in both documents—in fact, at this time an investigation is taking place leading to the updating of the Portuguese book that is expected to be published in 2021. It is true that there are other pressures on species not only the options for agricultural and forestry production, which I have already mentioned, but also diseases which, as you know, have come to attack, for example, the rabbit-breeding. These issues are not only a reason for us to control the pressure factors in which we can intervene and avoid. The second project we are discussing this afternoon only aims to ensure that there are no instruments manufactured just to catch wild birds that are no longer able to be legally caught. To act with caution and in the name of the biodiversity of the environment, but also of our survival, as a species, requires us to listen to scientists and ensure that we act to prevent mass extinction. We have it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, act now! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u156	The PSD Parliamentary Group has indicated to the Bureau that it will give an intervention shared by one Member and one Member. Mr João Marques, to whom I give the floor, begins this speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :The ride of another debate on how the hunting activity in Portugal works, which, for the last time, is scheduled in this Plenary, some of the anti-ecosystem and anti-nature parties decided, by drag, to schedule initiatives that aim to prohibit the manufacture, possession, use and sale of artifacts for the capture of species not subject to kinetic exploitation. This ban is presented, as they do in the other initiatives that aim to end the hunt, with severe proposals from reality and the Real Country, without knowing the consequences of what they propose, with contempt for the territory, by the inhabitants of the interior and the ecosystem. The capture of non-cinegetic wild birds in Portugal is illegal, it is prohibited and, as such, any activity that does not comply with the law should be punished. That's how it must be! It is effectively monitored because the PSD strongly condemns this practice. But the PAN and the Left Block, with these initiatives, do not intend to punish those who, by law, are in breach; they want to prohibit the manufacture, possession and sale of material that can easily have other use. For example, the manufacture and use of nets for the placing on trees or shrubs for the protection of crops against climate phenomena, or even against the attack of predatory animals, would become prohibited. Will that make sense? In fact, if we condemn its use for the capture of non-cinegetic and protected wild birds, we accept its use for scientific and/or protection of agricultural crops, particularly when some species in excess of the population become invasive and cause serious damage to the sector that feeds Portugal : agriculture. For the proposing parties, the solution presented contains an almost overwhelming simplicity: it is as if, in order to prevent the excess speed of cars on the roads, if it prohibits its manufacture and possession. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u158	Mrs Emília Cerqueira, also from the PSD, has the floor following this speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the proposals, which now, on a second or second round of a hunting package, are presented here, I want to say very quickly: the ENP proposes the prohibition of hunting for foxes, cockroaches, melons, cockroaches, hemps; then, the prohibition of hunting for rabbit-breeding, the PAN, and the moratorium on common rolla-PAN as well; and then, as the cherry on the top of the cake, comes the Block's proposal for what is now missing to be included, so that nothing is forgotten. All this under the appearance of nature conservation. Once again, they use half-truths here. Many of the myths that are developing have actually come to grips with reality, and with this it seems to want to protect biodiversity. I would like to hear Mrs PAN say that it is about protecting biodiversity. Mrs. Member, how ignorant of reality! ...The truth is that the bunny rabbit only exists in hunting areas because the hunters have fought for their existence. In fact, Malcata's lynx only exists in hunting reserve areas! Great apparent contradiction! But it is precisely the hunters who have done something for their existence. More: this prohibition takes into account a macro scenario and does not pay attention to the scenario of our country. First, we have areas where, in fact, the rabbit-breed is missing, not because of hunting, but because of disease, such as hemorrhagic fever. In fact, what happens is about health issues, because we have had great attacks on rabbit-breeding populations, and also because of the fires, which are issues to which hunters are perfectly outside. And yet we have areas where the bree rabbit is a real plague. But the analysis of whether or not the species should be hunted or captured should be done according to the micro reality, at every moment, and not so blind. With regard to predators, because that is what we have been talking about — the fox, the frog... — like the others. Members of the Greens Ecological Party should know, I suppose, the truth is that they are kind of generalist predation. How can we keep the other species if we let these species reproduce and grow unmeasured without any control? The control of populations is important and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, this smile through the mask. I would like the ENP and the NAP to remember what the Alentejo was like before there were hunting reserves, because it is important to know what those abandoned territories were and how biodiversity was before we made this effort with the hunting territories. Hunting must be protected and controlled by best practices and, of course, the biodiversity and balance of species must always be taken into account. For the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u160	Madam Member, I'm going to ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u161	I shall indeed end with due tolerance, Mr President. The Left Block knows very well that there are many species that are not studied and that there are species that refer to whose situation in Portugal is merely marginal, as is the case with chicken and so many others. Just because they're not studied, do you want to ban them? At least assume once and for all, and say: «We want to end this activity and thus leave the territory». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u162	This is a debate that has its uniqueness. It is a debate on hunting and, shortly after giving the floor to Mrs Maria Manuel Rola, I now give the floor to Mr Pedro Raposo do Carmo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u163	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u164	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u165	Mr. President, it is for questioning the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u166	Please, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u167	Mr President, in the previous item on the agenda, two Members of the Socialist Party intervened consecutively, and now the same has happened to two Members of the PSD. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of the Republic do not permit this, Mr President. Article 78. the Rules of Procedure read: « The word is given by the order of inscriptions, but the President of the Assembly of the Republic promotes so that they do not intervene afterwards, with other registries, Members of the same parliamentary group or members of the Government. Do not keep on seeking. ” He therefore called attention not to create this precedent, because it is anti-regulational. If a parliamentary group wants to intervene twice, then two Members are enrolled, but they speak in their order.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u168	Of course, Mr. Deputies, you are absolutely right. Actually, the mistake was mine and I take this responsibility personally. I ask everyone not to take this too much into account, just because, of course, it will not continue to proceed in this way and no precedent has been created. I therefore give the floor, with great pleasure, to Mr Pedro Raposo do Carmo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u169	Mr President, I am not, of course, a predator or a hunter, but I have the name ‘Racoso’. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bills that we appreciate today, presented by the ENP, the NAP and the Left Block, aim to ban or condition the hunting of certain species, these initiatives that reveal a deep ignorance of reality, of the balance of the ecosystem, of the life of men and women in the countryside, of the rural world. what it is actually about is another attack on the rural world, the rural world of which, in its various expressions, hunting—for many years, almost gave itself, with a weak attention of political decision-makers and citizens in general—is an integral part. There is a whole reality that is no less important just because the number of inhabitants is smaller, the electoral weight is lower than the long urban range of the coast or mediatism is less interesting than any occurrence that exists in the urban environment. It is with a sense of balance and wisdom that several kinetic projects have been developed to preserve animal species, to reforestation and development of tourist offers associated with hunting, which have brought sustainability — repeat, sustainability! — planning and future at many points in the territory and economies of the interior. As much as it costs some of the owners of the capital's footwear, where you now want to build gardens on the roofs, this is a utopia. In fact, there is a whole sense of environmental balance, balance between animal species and balance in coexistence between human beings and the environment that has been present in the rural area and in the interior territories. Hunting and hunters have made and are part of the rural world. They are an important part of the memory, present and local development strategy in many rural territories. To want, from Lisbon, to decree laws unrelated to the reality of the rural world is not to do what is essential and, let me tell you, to devote energy to the accessory. Otherwise, let's see, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all recognize, with great pride, the success of the recovery of the Iberian lynx population in the Guadiana Valley. Only in 2019, the birth rate in 13 nests was 65 new breeds, but it must be said that this was only possible because there is food, there is hunting, there is rabbit-breeding, its main food. And you know why there's a rabbit-gravo? Because kinetic management projects and hunters create them, feed and protect them. If it weren't, they'd be extinct a long time ago. It is therefore possible to have in the Guadiana valley the ideal habitat for the recovery of this species, the fruit of a balanced ecosystem that preserves biodiversity. I highlight the action of the municipality of Mértola and other scientific institutions that, together with public institutes, promote studies for the knowledge of the evolution of the population of rabbit-breeding, as well as of the disease that regularly dizyma. It is necessary to know, invent and perceive, with studies, on a scientific basis, in order to make decisions that have direct influence on kinetic activity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the hunt consists not only of the slaughter of kinetic species, but also of a set of measures aimed at the conservation, promotion and rational exploitation of those resources where the control of predators is included. This is an example of the fox hunt — which is so dear to me, as Mr President said — and the raccoon, generalist predatory species, which, when food is scarce, often resort to humanized areas, going in search of domestic animals. Mrs. Members, I could give dozens of examples of flocks, rods or herds that were targeted by these predators, with enormous losses. The ban on fox hunting would cause a huge imbalance in the food cycle, bringing worrying health issues, besides not to result in any benefit to the species that they so long want to preserve. As with the other species, there seems to be a target shot to kinetic species to be eliminated from the venatoria calendar, without any scientific basis or knowledge of the actual population and its behaviour. Today, hunting is an integral part of the strategy for the future of many regions of the country, of many economic agents and of territorial identity marks. Let us allow the representative associations of the sector, together with the ICNF and other institutions, to decide on these matters. That is why I ask you: leave the hunt and the hunters alone. The rural world thanks. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u170	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the CDS, Mrs Cecilia Meireles. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss various projects on hunting—the NAP, the ENP and the Left Block — which prohibit certain practices and remove several species from the list of kinetic species, which is the same as the list of species that can be hunted. Before addressing the projects, I would like to talk about the real objective of all these projects, because I think the discussions will be more frank, honest and open if they start from the true intentions. Clearly, what these parties really want, wherever they want, is the ban on hunting. So if what they want to discuss is the ban on hunting, we're going to have this discussion, because I think she's sick of two vices, which I'm going to explain. The first addiction is a moralist position, I would say, because you think hunting animals is wrong and that this should be forbidden. [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] Mr André Silva of the NAP described two debates: hunting is — and I quote — "the sector that wants to lead in everything that moves". You have a moral position on hunting, you think it should be forbidden and I, who have never hunted in life, think that my tastes, my lifestyles and my moral positions must not overlap with the freedom of others. You have the opposite position, which is the moralist position, and you think hunting should be prohibited. Well, then, make a project saying that and let's discuss it. And they assume this in front of the voters. [[Protests by the MP of the Inês PAN of Sousa Real.]] You think those who hunt have a wrong lifestyle, which must be banned. Please assume this before the voters, because that, yes, would be honesty. Secondly, in addition to the moralist position, there is also the position of ignorance. It is that the true environmentalists, those who, in fact, preserve biodiversity, territory and the environment, are precisely many of these hunters. They are not people who are shouting this in Facebook slogans, closed in apartments, are people who transform these territories into sustainable environments. Who allowed the reintroduction of the lynx, for example, were the hunters. Who makes this territory sustainable, who allows the existence of biodiversity, who preserves the species are, in many cases, hunters, and is this huge dichotomy among those who preach and those who make these projects speak. These are prohibition projects for those who, in fact, preserve the environment and biodiversity, so obviously they will not deserve the CDS company. On the contrary, they will deserve our opposition, precisely because of this. We shall always defend: point one, freedom; and point two, biodiversity. These projects both threaten.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u172	It says to the people that «there are no two without three». After Mrs Maria Manuel Rola and Mr Pedro Raposo do Carmo, Mr António Filipe Gaião of the CFP has the floor for an intervention. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u173	Mr President, this is indeed a day dedicated to cinematic activity, at least taking into account the name of several speakers. But, finally, this has only to do with the connection that we all have to nature. As the guy's a big-sized bird, imagine the guy! [[Laughing.]] But I must say that it is not the fact that I am called 'Gaião' that enables me nor gives me any special qualifications regarding the participation in this debate. What we wanted to say is that we do not adopt a position of prohibitionism in relation to kinetic activity. It must be regulated, it must take into account the preservation of species and, in fact, we do justice to think that the hunters are precisely the first interested in the preservation of kinetic species. from there we defend that there is a regulation, because there are things that must be as tighter as required by the preservation of species, but we consider that kinetic activity is a value that must be preserved, from the very moment the country cannot leave the rural world, and the kinetic activity is an integral part of the rural world that cannot be forgotten. Therefore, we cannot regret the abandonment of the interior, regret the abandonment of the forest and rural areas, and then also regret the consequences resulting from this abandonment and which often undergo dire rural fires. In the name of the balanced development of our country, we must preserve this activity and, of course, it must be regulated. The various legislative initiatives under discussion have in fact been banned once again, and in some cases the existing regulation itself already covers what is proposed by some of the legislative initiatives, in particular for those species which are already unable to be hunted and for those who can be only for a very limited period of time, taking into account precisely the need to preserve their own species. The kinetic activity of some species also works as a defense of other animal species that are victims of the natural predation of these species. We are talking, for example, about hunting the fox, which is a way of balancing the predation that it makes, in particular, poultry, hens and cattle. Obviously, if there is no fox hunt, there is an imbalance to the detriment of these species which are also essential for the preservation of the rural world and for the economic survival of many families that live there. That is to say that we are not going to follow the initiatives that have been put forward today, because we are actually putting ourselves in a different position. In other words: yes to the regulation of the hunt, but to the fact that the ICNF fulfils its duties in this matter and that it allows the species to be preserved, but that it respects an activity which, from our point of view, is respectable and also makes a very useful contribution to what is important to the preservation of the species in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u174	For the closure of this point, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we are discussing today is not at this time the abolition of kinetic activity. So it's not worth the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate around what it is, because what we want, on the one hand, is the regulation of moratoriums on certain species in particular and, on the other hand, the ban on the sale of artifacts in our country on absolutely illegal activities. But there is one aspect that we inevitably cannot steal: the negationism present in this debate, which, for us, is absolutely frightening, in which we hear expressions such as « anti-ecosystem», « anti-nature», « dedicate energy to the accessory » or « the ignorance of reality ». The gentlemen. Members who argue that it is urban myth we are talking about the decline of these species are the same as they may also deny climate change. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have natural values that are absolutely unconquerable in a civilized society. They can use energy to defend the hunting lobby—which goes through a fun based on cruelty—and if they want to, we can dedicate ourselves to this debate, but what we are talking about is a decline in certain species, which has also been recognized in scientific studies. The European Union itself recognises this! [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] We have heard you, in other debates, try repeatedly to reduce the rural world to a critical activity. The rural world is fortunately not exhausted from this cruelty, nor is it exhausted from an ethically questionable environmental activity. It's a lot more than that! Before the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us once again defuse this debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u176	It's moralism!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u177	It's not a matter of morality!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u178	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u179	Yes, ma'am!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u180	It is a matter of sensitivity and we do not want to condition the preservation of our species. On the day when there is no bunny rabbit to hunt, on the day when there is no fox to hunt, on the day when there is no species, there, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall be faced with an inevitability, which is the extinction of the species. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u181	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u182	I conclude now, Mr President. If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen want to wash your hands when we're ten years from the point of no return... If we don't conduct public policies of respect for nature, that is, yes, anti-ecosystem and anti-nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u183	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded the discussion of this item on our agenda. Let us turn to the assessment of the Resolution Project No. 429 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Information to citizens on the best practices of the current use of personal protective material, such as masks, visors or gloves, and encouragement to the option for reusable material. To present this initiative, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The COVID-19 pandemic has imposed a wide range of restrictions and changes on those who were the daily habits of the generality of people, with a view to preventing, containing, mitigating and treating this disease. The draft resolution we are discussing today, which is about information to citizens regarding best practices in the use of individual protective materials, despite having been worked in the first phase of the pandemic, in which we were dealing with the unknown and with the protective measures that were emerging a little uncertain, has today been redoubled because these individual protection measures were becoming increasingly active. Today, we talk about the mandatory use of masks, both in closed spaces, and abroad, when it is not possible to maintain the recommended distance. However, despite the use of masks as part of daily routines, we often watch the misuse of masks. And if we all have to wear masks in travel, at work, at leisure and even at home, when more caution is required with older family members or patients at risk, this raises another question, which is that of thickening waste, in this case of disposable masks. That is, a protection solution created a problem. In addition, people face some questions and doubts that deserve to be clarified, such as if disposable masks are the ones that offer the most protection and safety and whether social masks, which have a longer duration and which avoid the production of more waste, are equally effective. The fact that social masks are more expensive and there is a need to have more than one for different situations makes it necessary to make an investment that often does not share with the family budget, at a time when many budgets become increasingly thinner. It was in this sense that the Greens proposed that it should be considered a statement in the State Budget for 2021 for the distribution of free social masks, passing the message that these masks are safe and that our protection can and should be more friendly to the environment. In view of the environmental problem that is being generated with the desirability of these protective materials, there should be an incentive for citizens to opt for reusable materials. To this end, they need to know not only how this material should be formed and constructed, but also what care they should have in washing it. Is there an adequate temperature to be washed? How do they wash themselves? How do you keep them? How long should we wear the mask? Many are the issues associated with the mass use of masks and are also related to their correct use. The State should not resign itself from providing the necessary clarifications and should launch intensive information and clarification campaigns to citizens on the type of protective material that can be used, so that it is effective with regard to the objective, and on the correct way to use this material. We are talking about the concerns that remain regarding the masks, but we could also mention the doubts that persist about the appropriate use of the viscera or the correct use of gloves. The Greens recommend that the Government promote an intense information and clarification campaign for citizens who are encouraging, where possible, the use of reusable and non-reposable personal protective material; that it be formative in relation to the correct use of individual protective material, such as masks, visors or gloves; and that it be elucidative in terms of the characteristics to which the manufacture of individual protective material should comply. The project we present is to be implemented from now on, and may have to last much longer, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u185	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens draft resolution recommends that the Government promote, and I quote, an "intense information and clarification campaign" in three dimensions, i.e. on the correct use of protective material, whether masks, visors or gloves, on the manufacturing characteristics to which this material should obey and encourage the use of recyclable and non-disposable material. In fact, there is no reason to disagree with the objectives of a campaign like this. The campaign itself would have made more sense, would have been more relevant, if it could have been said, if it had happened at the time this diploma was made, that is, in May, because, of course, at that time the subject was new, there was more inexperience in the use of this material and it was not as common or as comprehensive or universal its use. to this day, what is the point of the situation? If we go to the DGS website, we see that there is a lot of material available, both informative and formative, and that there are already several institutions, both public and private, that will look for this material and use it in their institutions for the benefit of those who attend or visit them. On the other hand, in November, the government launched a campaign — I now seem to the Socialist Party to speak — called "Don't drop the mask", just to promote the proper use of the masks. Indeed, the objectives of this campaign are the same as the Greens list. In fact, I myself came across this campaign on social networks and, as it turns out, it was also disseminated in various media. On the other hand, in the State budget, the NAP presented a proposal — I now believe the NAP to speak — in forms similar to the Greens, which was approved, and which proposes the strengthening of the campaign in January 2021. If we take it as a matter of fact—I regret, finally, to have to say this—that the State budget is fulfilled, this campaign will take place in January 2021. Therefore, being impossible to disagree with the objectives of the Greens, the truth is that several campaigns have already been launched and others are already planned in the State budget. What I am asking is what the Greens want beyond what is already available or is already announced what will be done? What goals are not already being met? What exactly is the novelty point of the DOS Greens project, so that I, with great pleasure, once I even agree to its objectives, can vote in favour? It is that I find no reason to be able to approve it, since the objectives are already on the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u187	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sara Velez.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, it seems that we did the intervention at the same time, but we did not.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u189	No, we didn't! No one's copied!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u190	Today we discuss the draft ENP resolution that recommends to the Government the conduct of information campaigns to citizens on the best practices of the current use of individual protective equipment due to the pandemic caused by SARS-CoV-2. The project is dated May 2020, so with regard to the recitals presented and the resolution component, taking into account the time that has passed from May to this day - almost eight months have changed our daily lives so deeply - and the rapid evolution of all the dimensions involved in this health crisis, some considerations of the diploma are exceeded, but they have not ceased to be relevant at the time and to continue to apply at this particular time. Also in May the PS Parliamentary Group presented a draft resolution recommending to the Government the promotion of good practices in relation to individual protective equipment for the prevention of infection of COVID-19. At the time, we called attention to the problem of gloves and masks generated by the generalization of their use—as is natural, it was strongly recommended for each and every one of us to defend against the threat of the pandemic—and to the need for action on the good practices of their proper deposition, as well as recommended the choice of reusable masks, certified by the CITEVE (Technological Centre of Textile and Clothing Industries), meeting the standards of use of that organization and thus minimizing the impacts on public health and the environment. We continue, therefore, in the same way as considering essential and essential that Portuguese are informed about the correct deposition of personal protective equipment, including gloves and masks, among others, for the prevention of contagio and also for the protection of workers and workers who, on a daily basis, perform a vital task in the collection and treatment of waste. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is indisputable today the impact that the pandemic has had on our lives and all these equipment already mentioned here have in some way become part of our daily lives. The draft resolution we are discussing here proposes, in its resolution component, to carry out information campaigns that encourage the use of this material, also encouraging the use of material that can be reused and not immediately discarded. In this regard, the Directorate-General for Health has ongoing awareness-raising campaigns for the correct use of masks and their handling, with advice and recommendations for good practice regarding their use, in particular with regard to the indication of masks to be used by the general population — the so-called "social or community masks" — certified by CITEVE, recommending that they follow the guidelines given by this body regarding their use. This information is also available in various media and is widely disseminated in digital media. The Ministry of Health also presented in the autumn-winter Health Plan 2020 - 21, the commitment to continue to promote the strengthening of these clarification and communication campaigns regarding the correct use of individual protective equipment, not only to combat issues related to COVID-19, but also to other seasonal threats. The Ministry of the Environment's campaign "Don't drop the mask" is currently under way, which is being disseminated on the various television channels, radios, written press and digital media, with the aim of raising awareness of the population for the use of reusable masks, common community masks, sensitizing everyone to the enormous environmental impact that has the proper deposition, even if done, of hundreds of thousands of disposable masks that are released into the trash, every day, around the world. I would also like to point out that, in the context of the debate, in the speciality of the State budget, we have adopted a proposal for an amendment to the NAP and that, with regard to the use of institutional advertising, we have already approved this institutional advertising space which can also be used in the press to disseminate awareness campaigns regarding the use of masks and other equipment. So, and to conclude, the Socialist Party somehow accompanies the concerns and objectives reflected in the draft resolution, which we also defend. on our part, that's what we had to say. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u191	The next intervention is the PSD Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mr Rui Cristina has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss draft resolution No 429 / XIV / 1. the, presented by the party The Greens in the current context of the pandemic by COVID-19, which aims to improve information to citizens about the best practices of current use of personal protective material such as masks, visors or gloves. For the proposing party, this information improvement must be ensured, essentially, by carrying out an intense campaign to inform and clarify the population, although it does not take care to elucidate how or how this campaign should be carried out. With regard to the objectives, the initiative aims to encourage the use of reusable and non-disposable personal protective material after single use. They are naturally worthy purposes and will certainly have a concern about the increasing environmental costs the disposable masks are entailing. In this regard, it should be borne in mind that, even today, it was the Government itself to estimate that, from Portugal alone, these non-reusable masks can represent more than 6 tonnes of plastics to contaminate the environment every month, which, to be confirmed, is not entirely acceptable. This is a relevant issue, as it is relevant to know in which contexts the use of disposable surgical masks should take place, paying attention to the conditions for their effectiveness, in particular as compared to masks made from cotton or polyester. The fact is that, without prejudice to the environmental concerns discussed and explained here today, the question of what are the most effective masks to block the spread of COVID-19 belongs not to the sphere of politics, but rather to the field of technical research. It should also be remembered that available evidence shows that non-surgical, community or social masks are less protective than surgical masks. It must therefore compete with scientific research institutions to ascertain the different levels of effectiveness of the masks and, following this scientific evidence, the competent health authorities determine how, when and by whom masks with certain characteristics may or should be used, these are disposable or reusable. It is that these decisions must be based not on mere and hasty political positions, but on sound technical knowledge which confers on them credibility and, above all, that protects public health and defends citizens. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party has long been warning Portuguese about the need for all to have socially responsible behaviour in the current context of the pandemic, a behavior that relies on the observance of physical distance between people, especially when they are in closed or confined spaces in a delimited area, even in the open, but a behavior that does not also exempt the use of protective masks in closed public spaces or also in the open air, provided that physical distance between people cannot be guaranteed. These are fundamental aspects of health information in a pandemic context, information which, in order to be accepted by the people, should be true, credible and coherent. Unfortunately, this was not the case in Portugal, as the successive government ziguezags and the Directorate-General for Health have well illustrated, both in the use of masks and in the containment measures, in which Communist allies of the socialist government were scandalally able to violate the harsh rules imposed on the generality of the Portuguese people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u193	Therefore, the ENP may well speak of protection of the environment, until it is a green party outside! ... It would be better, however, if the ENP advised the mother-house to have some respect for the confinement of the Portuguese, leaving out of street ceremonies and congresses in time of pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u194	Sir, that's enough! Leave the imagination there...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u195	It's just, sirs. Mr Dos Verdes, environmental and health issues cannot result from mere political conveniences. These are serious issues, issues that relate to the protection of human health and environmental sustainability and that are therefore the basis of the PSD's political ideal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u196	The next intervention is Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we discuss a draft resolution on information and awareness of the population for the so-called 'Community masks' and for their proper use, we are also discussing the necessary communication that the Government and the health authorities must have with the population at the moment. In fact, there were several moments during this pandemic when communication was not the right one, not only about the use of masks, but also about very varied aspects: right at the beginning, communication about what was the disease; also, for a long time, communication about how to use masks, etc. ; and now that the vaccination plan against COVID-19 is being prepared, I also take advantage of it to say that at present there should be greater intensification and better communication with the population. That is why it seems to us that, in a pandemic, it is essential to promote good communication with the population, which has often been replaced by decrees of obligation—in fact, even by a nonsense about the obligation to use STAYAWAY COVID, which would also require that we all have to show whether we have the application installed on the phone or not. As I have often said, this communication that must exist has been replaced by decrees of obligation, without being accompanied by the necessary information and awareness. That's what's wrong. In fact, when we discuss here, in the Assembly of the Republic, a bill on the mandatory use of masks in public, we ourselves, in the Block of the Left, proposed changes in the direction of these measures to be accompanied by information campaigns, awareness campaigns, which were not punitive, but motivated by the adoption of the correct behaviors by the population. So that is what is at stake and that is what is proposed by the Greens Ecological Party, we can only say that we agree. We agree, of course, that at this stage, as in all phases of the pandemic, information and communication campaigns for the correct use of masks, as we agree that there is this awareness for the use of Community, reusable masks, to the detriment of disposable masks, which, in fact, the World Health Organization itself, a few days ago, said that they should be used by health professionals and the most vulnerable patients, and that the general population should favour reusable masks. We agree that this should happen. We also believe that this awareness campaign, in addition to the information it should contain, should include another measure, which we have already proposed, which is the free distribution of these personal protective equipment, until, even if it is reusable, we all know that it has a limit and a validity. Therefore, if we really want people to adopt the right behavior and properly use these personal protective equipment as a State and as a society, we must also give people the conditions to have access to these equipment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u198	The next intervention is by Mrs Alma Rivera of the PCP. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country was confronted with the need to adopt new habits and routines, as a result of the epidemic outbreak COVID-19, and the whole situation posed new challenges and problems, while others showed, which correspond to the main structural deficiencies in our country. Since the first hour, the PCP has defended the need to act on several fronts: firstly, in the necessary strengthening of the SNS and in the capacity of the SNS for the clinical response that is required; also in the defence of jobs and incomes, combating the exploitation of the situation and mitigating the recessive effect of the pandemic; and, of course, in the adoption of awareness-raising and pedagogy measures for the behaviors to be adopted, in order to achieve the greatest possible adherence to health protection measures. As the PCP has insisted, what the country needs is measures that stimulate individual protection, promote protection pedagogy and ensure health security conditions so that national life can continue in its multiple dimensions. However, the use of masks is one of the measures to be adopted in conjunction with the respiratory label, hand washing and physical distance. In the view of public health, the priority issue is the protection of the health of citizens and we should have available, at every moment and in every particular situation, the most suitable personal protective equipment to achieve this objective. Therefore, as we have previously defended the creation of a national awareness campaign for the correct deposition into the waste of personal protective equipment, which would often end up lying on ecopoints or on public roads, we argue that there must also be a strong awareness and pedagogy regarding the correct use of masks, ensuring that it is done in accordance with the health requirements and appropriate to any situation, that is, contributing to its correct choice, use or even manufacture. Thus, in response to the proposal brought here by the Greens, we believe that the Government must use all resources at its disposal at the level of information and clarification in order to respond to the doubts which multiply, in particular on such non-reusable masks, Community masks, but also on the correct use of masks, visors and gloves. On the other hand, with many people, companies, associations and informal groups producing Community-type masks, it is important that information on the characteristics of manufacture and materials to which they must be subject is accessible. As we have insisted, appropriate measures and behaviour should be taken with people and not against people, because no imposition measures are more effective than awareness and conviction. Therefore, and ensuring that at no time there should be relaxation in the type of appropriate masks, because health is always first, we will follow this project DOS Verdes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u200	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mr André Silva has now given the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us begin by congratulating the Green Party on this initiative. In fact, in our view, the recommendations included in the draft resolution are, in addition to merit, elementary and, therefore, it is in a certain way regrettable that we have reached the point of the Assembly of the Republic to have to make these recommendations to the Government to carry out the basic information to the citizens, but here we are. The NAP has made several proposals to minimize the use of disposable masks and to ensure that their deposition is made responsibly, in waste and not in the environment, and has also been adopted, within the budget of the State, a standard which provides for the implementation of a massive and effective dissemination campaign with these very objectives which The Greens bring us here. Plastic pollution is increasing due to the COVID-19 pandemic, with the use of disposable masks, gloves and other personal protective equipment. Disposable masks are also manufactured in polypropylene, which, in nature, takes 450 years to disappear, degrade, compost, and in some countries, there is already the discovery of huge quantities of disposable masks in the ocean, leading to serious environmental and public health damage. The United Nations has warned of this problem and called on States to take steps to curb pollution caused by disposable masks, treating waste management, including medical and hazardous waste, as an essential public service and creating legislation to that effect. Documentation has already been issued with various advice on the management of pandemic residues by COVID-19, from which, in the case of disposable masks, it is emphasized that they are the object of selective collection and dedicated and appropriate treatment, in a manner similar to hospital waste of the same type. It is therefore crucial to raise citizens' awareness of the use of reusable masks and their proper deposition. Despite the fact that the Greens draft resolution has already been approved in the State budget, we will of course support this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u202	For the closure of this point, Mrs Mariana Silva, of the Green Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The question of reusable masks and the correct use of individual protective material was mentioned by us during the first phase of the pandemic. Today, we have only taken this matter back because we believe that, despite all the campaigns that exist — in my speech, I have not said that they did not exist — they are not enough. We keep looking down and we keep seeing masks. We keep seeing that people wear masks improperly. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, we returned there again, because we had this discussion a while ago: there is information on the DGS website, but, as the pandemic has also shown us, not everyone has access to the Internet, so we cannot rely only on websites and on the Internet to bring information to people. We therefore reinforce the request for more awareness campaigns to be carried out for the proper use of this material, so that we can somehow stop the spread of the virus. That is why the Greens bring this issue back to plenary. The NAP proposal, which we hope will benefit from, was adopted in the budget of the State, in the sense that the Government is really going to step up these campaigns. As we know, we are close to Christmas—which is a festive time—and so it will be necessary to strengthen campaigns, especially in order for people to know how to use this kind of material. I do not say that protection material should be used on a mandatory basis, because, within our homes, nobody forces us to do so, but perhaps we should report that, using it during the parties, we may be minimizing the risks of spreading the virus. Mr Rui Cristina, I don't know what to say about your speech. I imagine it must have been hard to write it. On the one hand, the PSD wants to be in favour of the Greens proposal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u204	I never said it was favorable!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u205	... because it always stresses that it has environmental concerns and that therefore there is a whole path that has been going on over the years. They say this in order to convince themselves, because every time you talk about an environmental issue, you reinforce all the work you have done on this matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u206	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u207	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. On the other hand, the PSD Member attacked the Greens without any need. I didn't get it, and I confess I'm not gonna get it. Therefore, with this consensus that you have come to understand that there exists, I really hope that our diploma will be approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u208	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not end this session without Secretary Nelson Peralta giving some information to the plenary. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I announce that you have been present at this plenary session by video conference, Mr Sérgio Marques, of the PSD, elected by the electoral circle of Madeira. For other reasons, Members Sofia Araújo and Palmira Maciel of the PS and Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP also participated in this session through videoconferencing. I also announced that they had entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr. President, Bills No. 592 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 593 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 595 / XIV / 2. a ( BE, PAN and PEV) and 596 / XIV / 2. a ( BE). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-12-10.u210	Thank you, Mr. Secretary Nelson Peralta. The plenary shall reconvene tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the debate under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, with the Minister of State, Economics and Digital Transition, after which there will be electoral votes. I thank all of you and all of you for your cooperation in this session, wishing to continue a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 42 minutes.]]
