ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] Our weekly session, as has been happening for a few weeks, has a very extensive agenda, which, in fact, will allow me not to read. Before we begin our work, I ask Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha to give us an account of the file. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following draft resolutions: No. 339 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Ensures that health professionals, security forces and services professionals and civil protection elements and workers in the area of urban waste access to personal protective equipment; No. 344 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — recommends to the Government an extraordinary review of the objectives that serve as assessment parameters within the framework of SIADAP and private employer assessment systems; No. 345 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — Strengthening support for health professionals and users in the pandemic situation of COVID-19 ; No. 352 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the elimination of discriminatory barriers of deaf people in access to information and treatment in the context of the fight against COVID-19 ; No. 353 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of an exceptional social protection scheme for lawyers and applicants in the context of the fight against COVID-19; No. 356 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the extension of exceptional support to the family for workers on behalf of others and self-employed during the Easter holidays; No. 357 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen exceptional measures to support the economy of autonomous regions in order to mitigate the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic ; No. 358 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure that the maximum price limits of the goods necessary for the prevention and control of the pandemic of COVID-19, including individual protective equipment, biocidal products and medical devices, are fixed; No. 361 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — establishes the non-applicability of municipal indebtedness limits during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and a financial support line for local authorities to implement programmes to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by SARS-CoV-2; No. 363 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support self-employed, informal workers and other precarious workers; No. 364 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the payment of essential services (water, electricity, natural gas and communications); No 365 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Protection of the elderly of the SARS-CoV-2 virus in elderly households (including those without alvará); No. 366 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government measures to protect fishery professionals who have ceased activity under the COVID pandemic ; No. 368 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government grant a 20 % remuneration supplement to essential service workers; No. 369 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government pursue the adoption of protective measures for persons present in prison establishments; No. 370 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Support for the social and solidarity sector under the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of COVID-19 ; No. 371 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Exceptional and temporary measures to support families with children up to 12 years of age and children with disabilities in the face of the epidemiological situation of COVID-19 ; No 372 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends 15 economic and employment support measures to the Government; No 373 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — Immediate payment of State debts to taxpayers, suppliers or partners; No. 374 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — For a tax incentive to pay income; No 375 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — the immediate exemption from the payment of TSU and IRC to public persons; No. 376 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — The immediate exemption from payment of TSU, IRS, VAT and IMI for natural persons; No. 377 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — suspension of taxes and charges on essential services; No. 378 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — The creation of a social crisis supplement (SCSC); No. 379 / XIV / 1. a (CH) — The implementation of support and containment centres for patients with COVID-19 in existing infrastructures, as well as the creation of a free line of support for all households of the elderly and health homes to be operated; No 382 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — For the dissemination of epidemiological data in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic; No 383 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of extraordinary measures concerning the conclusion of the 2019 / 2020 school year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. They also entered the Bureau and were also admitted to the following draft laws: No. 301 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensures that screenings are carried out throughout the national territory at COVID-19 as a strategy for the prevention and containment of the disease; No. 302 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Takes protective measures to lawyers and applicants; No. 305 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — establishes mechanisms for the protection of micro, small and medium-sized companies ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - A / 2020 of 13 March and first amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ) ; No. 306 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March, giving an exceptional situation of support to individuals, bridging joints and municipalities for the cleaning of forest biomass in the context of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic ; No. 307 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves measures to guarantee access to essential services by families; No. 308 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — extends the subjective scope of job protection measures under the COVID-19 pandemic ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ) ; No. 309 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Adequacy of the payment of propines in higher education than the exceptional situation of COVID-19 ; No. 310 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — adopts protection and support measures for lawyers and applicants; No. 311 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — adopt protection measures for children and young people at risk; No. 312 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthens access and control of the use of the support line for the economy CVID-19 ; No. 313 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — determines the temporary suspension of shareholder remuneration and the payment of bonuses to administrators; No. 314 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Suspension of payment of accommodation benefits in university residences during the public health emergency period; No. 316 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures the social protection of trainees and IEFP trainees while implementing exemption measures under COVID-19 ; No. 317 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Considers the extraordinary review of electricity and natural gas tariffs and the definition of an exceptional regime for regulatory procedures in the electricity and natural gas sectors; No. 318 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes exceptional and temporary social protection measures for micro and small business managers in a business crisis situation and amends the social support scheme for self-employed persons provided for in Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March; No. 319 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures social protection support for workers with precarious employment links in a situation of unemployment, including taxi workers and domestic workers; No 320 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amends Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March by strengthening the support granted to self-employed and individual entrepreneurs arising from the COVID-19 ; No. 321 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Limits the collection of interest rates and bank fees by credit institutions ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - J / 2020 of 26 March ) ; No. 322 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Guarantees social protection for workers of temporary work enterprises who have been fired; No. 323 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — extends support to members of micro and small enterprises who are both employees of the company; No. 324 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — extends the limit of extraordinary support for self-employed persons for the reduction of economic activity; No. 325 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Reduces the period of guarantee of access to unemployment benefit; No. 326 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Determines limitations on access to online gaming platforms; No. 327 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Support for families with dependents to attend private and cooperative educational establishments and the social and solidarity sector of education; No. 328 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures to respond to the crisis in the cultural sector; No. 329 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Regularizes with urgency the precarious links with pending processes under PREVPAP; No. 330 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protects aggregates with high income breaks in access to telecommunications in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic crisis ; No 331 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protects aggregates with high income breaks in access to essential services in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic crisis ; No. 332 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthen support measures for homeless people; No 333 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Safeguarding critical infrastructures, health care units and essential public services, as well as vital economic sectors for the production, supply and supply of goods and services essential to the population. It also entered the Bureau and was admitted, Parliamentary Assessment No 10 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 10 - J / 2020 of 26 March establishing exceptional measures for the protection of the credits of families, companies, private institutions of social solidarity and other entities of the social economy as well as a special system of State personal guarantees under the COVID 19 disease pandemic. They also entered the Bureau and were admitted to the Bill Nos 22 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establish an exceptional regime to promote the response capacity of local authorities in the context of the COVID 19 and 23 / XIV / 1 disease pandemic. a ( GOV ) — Establishs an exceptional regime for flexible enforcement of penalties and free measures within the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic. I also announced the withdrawal by the NAP of its Resolution Project No 337 / XIV / 1. a — Recommends that the Government take measures to protect lawyers and applicants. I'm done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u3	Mrs. Maria da Luz Rosinha, was an effort made. I thank you very much on behalf of all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen present.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u4	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u5	Mr. André Ventura, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u6	Mr President, I would like to make use of the agenda set for today's plenary if possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u7	Use of the agenda decision?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u8	Yes, Mr. President. I shall do so in accordance with Article 59. the Rules of Procedure. This Article in its paragraph 3 reads as follows : « The decisions of the President of the House setting the agenda shall be appealed to the Plenary, which shall act definitively».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u9	All right, I admit it is. It then has 2 minutes to intervene and explain why it does so. We shall then vote on the appeal immediately, without further action.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u10	Yes, Mr. President. The Bill No. 23 / XIV / 1 has come to us, to deliberate. a. This bill deals with the pardon of prisoners, the exceptional pardon and the extension of administrative exits from prison establishments. A month ago, this House prevented the voting of a project on the chemical castration of pedophiles and other sexual aggressors. He then considered the House to be unconstitutional and therefore this matter did not deserve even to be debated in plenary, which should be closed to the debate in Parliament and to the discussion of the Portuguese, when, outside, everyone discussed it. The project before us today violates the right to security of Portuguese citizens and, above all, violates the right to equality, since, without the defined criteria, it is not even possible to realize that prisoners can benefit and that prisoners cannot benefit. But above all, it violates the principle of the separation of powers provided for in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic by making, for example, the Director-General a kind of penalty enforcement tribunal, which decides, without any judicial intervention, the precarious exits of 3 days to 45 days. This is a blatantly unconstitutional matter and therefore the arrival could not allow, created the precedent to discuss in this House only what this House believes is constitutional, we could now admit to discussion a matter which flagrantly violates the principles of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This matter is particularly serious because it is discussed at the same time and one day after a bandit who killed a PSP agent with 22 shots being released on parole. It is an infamy for this Parliament to discuss a proposal that will put the prisoners out and keep the Portuguese imprisoned and confined in their homes. It's unconstitutional and infamous!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u11	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u12	So the House is asking it to withdraw this item from today's agenda. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u13	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u14	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, there is no question of an appeal at the moment. We shall then vote on Mr Ventura's appeal, because that is what is envisaged in the Rules of Procedure. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the vote in favour of the CH and the abstentions from the PSD and the IL.]] So let's start our agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u15	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u16	Mr President, I ask you not to stay on the subject of the previous incident.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u17	Mr President, from the moment you gave me the floor, I would like to make an appeal to the Bureau regarding the conduct of the proceedings. I would just like to ask whether, in the Conference of Leaders, when you set out the agenda for this plenary session, Mr Chaplain was not present.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u18	Mr President, you know that Mr. André Ventura was present and Mr. André Ventura also knows that he was present. Therefore, it is not worth answering the question. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u19	Let's go on. We have a very long agenda and the small incidents today have absolutely no interest compared to the serious problems that the country is facing. As agreed at the Conference of Leaders, with the participation of all the leaders of the parliamentary groups and of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the quorum for the purpose of preparing this whole long journey ahead. The first item on the agenda is the general discussion of the Bill No 22 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) : — Establish an exceptional regime to promote the response capacity of local authorities in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. First of all, Mr. Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Alexandra Leitão, has the floor to congratulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u20	Mr. President and Mr. Members: In the context of the emergency situation we live in and the joint and solidarity effort for all of us to be convened, the Government presented to the Assembly of the Republic one more bill to provide local authorities with agile procedures so that they could quickly adopt measures to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. This is a set of mechanisms for agileization and flexibility of procedures that allow for speeding up and facilitating response to social, public health and others. These changes provide more rapid response, including support for vulnerable people and the establishment of partnerships with IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) and the social sector, among others. The Government thus recognizes the remarkable role played by the local administration, municipalities and parish, in this collective effort of our country as a community. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u21	Mr José Cancela Moura has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers: Yesterday, World Health Day was celebrated and I therefore leave a special thanks to all doctors, nurses and assistants and all those who risk their lives to save ours. Thank you very much! We know from the beginning, and from the worst way, that the new coronavirus explores the fragility of the older, but unfortunately only one and a half months after the registration of the first case of COVID-19 in Portugal is that the guardianship was finally advancing, with a screening operation in all the homes of the municipalities of Lisbon, Aveiro, Évora and Guarda, a measure that had already been breached by the initiative that had already been preceded in several municipalities, on its own account and risk. It was a national plan which, strangely, did not contain or at least did not give priority to the regions of the country where the situation was of social alarm, such as in Porto, Vila Nova de Gaia, in Maia, in Gondomar, in Matosinhos or in the specific cases of Ovar and the institutions of Vila Real, Vila Nova de Famalíón, de Resende or Vale de Cambra. More: as far as the plan is concerned, the plan is far from being fulfilled. It seems that not even in the full state of national emergency we have the humility to think of the country as a whole and to value territorial cohesion, in the name of the solidarity that the moment imposes. Again, it was the autoarchs who, apart from the competence and hesitation of the government, gave their face and took the protection measures of the main victims of this public health crisis, because they understood, first of all, that the life of the older cannot depend on the ratio of the number of tests, nor on the announcement of a few more tons of material that will arrive on the next plane. And every day we get news of a drama in the third sector. Yesterday, in Aveiro, there was a dramatic situation that we regretted, where an author was the image of desolation, for doing almost everything, even without having almost anything. He was disillusioned by the announcement of the death of more than 15 elderly people and the infection of nearly 100 more users and employees in one home and felt powerless in the face of lack of tests and PPE(individual protective equipment) that never arrived. Therefore, the minimum that the government can do for the authorities is to pay for the proximity and ensure the health, humanitarian and financial support of the most vulnerable, which is an example of this legislative initiative that we follow. However, this support could and should go further, especially because local power is the largest ally, at the moment, of central power. in this particular, we propose the extension of the layoff scheme simplified to the workers of the local business sector, i.e. to municipal enterprises. This measure, in addition to repairing a lack of social equity, also corresponds to the situation of business crisis in which the companies of the municipal universes are located. We hope that, given the importance it represents for the authorities, this amendment deserves to be welcomed by this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u23	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u24	I will finish, Mr. President. This proposal corresponds to the position of collaboration that we promise to the Government and to the commitment we make with the country, because the moment requires everyone, without exception, a responsibility and a sense of state. Patriotism does not proclaim itself, it practices itself, because the true opposition of the PSD is to the virus itself! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u25	Mr John Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u26	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Considering the times in which we live, in the middle of a global pandemic, in which our country does not run the rule, in which the COVID-19 has fallen on the Portuguese, of course exceptional and rapid measures are required, in an emergency framework, to try to mitigate the serious health, social and economic consequences. Exceptional and temporary measures are required to respond to problems, to the needs of populations and, in particular, to the most unprotected sectors, to those who need them most. And it's the local authorities, the municipal chambers, the parish councils, as basic and proximity bodies, which are on the front line with their populations, their municipalities, their fries to solve the various problems they face in this black period that we are going through. from here, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, I welcome all the authorities and all the thousands of autarchs from north to south of the country and the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira and all their populations living in dramatic moments at this moment. We will be able to overcome these difficulties and the Left Block here will continue to propose solutions and initiatives to tackle this crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u28	Local authorities need, therefore, practical and swift instruments to deal with this extraordinary period, to speed up procedures in various areas, preventing the authorities from being blocked and the citizens from becoming even more disadvantaged and having the answers deemed necessary. The Left Block generally agrees with the proposed law submitted by the Government. However, we have tabled some amendments to Article 4. the, concerning support to people in situations of vulnerability. Support shall be granted by the chairman of the municipal chamber, by delegation of powers of the authority, but shall always be consulted. Despite the extraordinary times in which we are advising physical distancement, local executive bodies should maintain all their collegiate functions, so all of their members should be consulted, whether by using videoconferencing or other forms of digital communication. Mr Minister, on the other hand, the measures taken by the chamber presidents should be justified, sent to all members of the Executive and to the presidents of the municipal assemblies, who, in turn, must communicate them to all municipal groups, by electronic means, in the shortest possible time. As you know, the state of emergency does not suspend democracy. It is therefore important to strengthen it, through more agile and participatory administrative instruments, so as to serve the people better. We hope that all parliamentary groups will agree and support these proposals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u29	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the context of the fight against the epidemic of COVID-19, the Government presents to us today a bill providing for an exceptional regime in order to increase the capacity and speed of response by local authorities. In fact, in addition to the exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of this serious problem, it is also important to ensure the supply of essential goods and services to the people, including the provision of public services closer to the citizens, which are mainly provided by local authorities. Therefore, in addition to the measures provided for in Law No 1 -A / 2020, the Government now presents us with a new set of measures to promote the smoothing of administrative procedures in local authorities. Among the proposals submitted, the diploma is to speed up the recruitment of short-term loans, allowing municipal chambers to enter into loans without the need for authorization of the municipal assembly, of course without prejudice to further ratification by the Assembly. Article 4. the, in turn, allows support for vulnerable persons to be granted by the president of the chamber by delegation of competences of the respective municipal chamber, and Article 6. it allows the use of the value of long-term loans to exceed two years. As for the rest, the proposal ends up bringing due legal coverage to the deliberations that the various municipalities have been taking over during this period in matters such as exemptions from the employment rate of the public highway or concession income. It happens, Mrs Minister, that, on the one hand, with regard to the reduction of revenue, such as taxes, incomes, IMTs and out there, and, on the other hand, also to the sudden increase in expenditure which the authorities are experiencing following the fight against coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2 ), expenditure, moreover, paid for early payment, which, of course, has further weakened municipal treasury, would be expected that the Government would establish a line of credit so that the authorities could somehow see the reduction of revenue offset and the increase in expenditure which, as I said recently, was unexpected. On the other hand, Mrs. Minister, nothing is said about the maintenance of the compensation of the Programme of Support for Tariff Reduction ( PART), whose monthly value continues to be withdrawn from the FEF (Financial Balance Fund ) of the authorities when the volume of passengers with navigating pass has fallen abruptly for the reasons we all know. Finally, in view of this picture, and in view of the situation the authorities are experiencing, it seems to us that it would be to equalise the need to proceed with the early reimbursement of the Municipal Support Fund. I therefore leave these three questions to you, Madam Minister, in the hope that, in your final speech in this debate, you will be able to decide on them. I recall the questions: the need to establish a credit line for local authorities, the maintenance of PART compensation, and finally the early reimbursement of the Municipal Support Fund.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u31	Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal for a law which the Government submits to speed up the procedures of the authorities is, in an emergency period, necessary. in some respects, it is only possible and only acceptable during the emergency period, but in fact solves some problems. I'd like to say, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is impossible to remain indifferent to what happened at the beginning of this plenary, that is to say, as we read the initiatives that have entered the Bureau. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at a time of emergency, we must, above all, focus on concrete, practical actions that make the difference. It is not by making metro initiatives or empty proclamations, which make no difference in the lives of people, which Parliament will deign its task, quite the contrary. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to initiatives focused and designed to make the difference, where it has to be made now, we present a proposal for an amendment to this initiative by the Government, thinking as follows : Members, May is the month of payment of the IMI or at least the first benefit of the IMI. At a time when many people are in layoff or have lost their jobs, when many small businesses have had to close or, purely and simply, they have been without customers, at a time when many gentlemen will no longer receive incomes and at a time when Parliament cannot do so because there is no amending budget — let us remember that the fiscal competence is of Parliament — it makes sense to let the month of May come near without the cameras being able to introduce moratoriums or allow families and businesses to pay afterwards or allow a total or partial exemption, making the IMI — in fact, it is real estate that can become much devalued — this year, is not paid or is not even due? I believe that it is appropriate, at a time of epidemic, as at any other time, to prepare the future. We're talking about something that's gonna happen in a month. Does or does it not make sense to do anything today to avoid it?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u33	I now give the floor to Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last week, proposals were adopted which contribute to the financial balance of local authorities on the basis of a CFP initiative, including the possibility of using the management balance, after the approval of the cash flow map in the executive body, the anticipation of the transfer of a twelfth on the participation of authorities in State taxes and the extension of the exception to the limit of indebtedness of unforeseen expenditure following this outbreak. We know that the financial balance on the part of the authorities is essential for the continued provision of essential services to the people, for the cleaning and hygiene of the public space, for the support and protection of their populations. The Government is now bringing another proposal to debate in the context of the authorities, which seeks to facilitate access to short-term loans, issues relating to medium- and long-term loans and also non-application of the law of commitments and late payments to the authorities are not yet excluded from the same law. We always advocate that this law should not be applied to public services, that it should not be applied to authorities, and we consider that, allow me to refer to it, given the particular moment in which we live, this law should not also be applied in the National Health Service, so that health institutions, health centres and hospitals can effectively have the materials and equipment, which are fundamental to treat populations at this time. On short-term loans, we believe that at the moment they can be an important instrument in the adoption of measures to combat COVID-19 and in the minimization of its impact, but in order for it to be of such importance, in view of the period of the year in which we are at present, it cannot be an obligation to amortisation until the end of the calendar year, and the possibility of them being contracted up to 12 months, as the CFP proposes in a proposal for an amendment, on the ground that their effectiveness and usefulness are lost. Whereas the municipalities will have unforeseen expenses at the same time as the breakdown of revenue caused by the situation in which we live, either as a result of any measures taken by the municipalities to alleviate expenditure, especially of a current nature, it is essential that the application of the principle of budgetary balance provided for in Article 40 be excluded by 2020. that of the Local Finance Act — this is another proposal that we also bring to the discussion at this time. We also want to point out that, on the pretext of the outbreak, a number of charges and responsibilities are placed on the back of the authorities — many of the proposals for amendments which are now being discussed — are going to be sought, for which they do not have a human and financial environment and which can even introduce inequalities between citizens based on the greater or lesser capacity of each authority.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u35	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u36	I will finish, Mr. President. We reaffirm that the authorities have, in fact, an important role in combating outbreaks, contributed to finding solutions to support for populations in each territory, but it is essential that the linkage with the entities prevail, considering their responsibilities, and not the assumption of the responsibilities of others, who require responses at the national level and not at the local level. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u37	I'm aware there are 128 ladies and gentlemen. Members registered for quorum. I ask all those who have not been mobilized by their seats for presence quorum to leave the Chamber for a matter of caution. I now give the floor to Mrs Bebiana Cunha of the Parliamentary Group of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u38	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, in the country outside, municipalities and parish have been fundamental in combating COVID-19 and its impacts, giving numerous responses, since the establishment of disease screening centres, from social support to homeless people, the elderly, victims of domestic violence, compulsory school students without access to computers or even to families and businesses who have been victims of income losses. Let no one doubt that the health and economic-financial crisis we are experiencing would be worse if in Portugal we did not have a strong local power and also capable of giving these investment responses to financial and human resources in this fight. With regard to this proposal from the Government, which will count on our favourable vote, because it aims to ensure better conditions and more means so that the municipal chambers and their respective presidents can improve the way in which they respond to these problems, we nevertheless present some proposals in this debate because we understand that we are here to play this role, to represent our fellow citizens and citizens, who have chosen us to have a participatory role in this House in the search of solutions. I would like to say, then, that we are putting forward two proposals in two ways: one clarification and one further deepening. The clarification proposal aims to alert the importance of municipal assemblies to what the decisions of the municipal executive will be. The proposal seeks to ensure that the Government also takes a number of initiatives in conjunction with the local authority, which aim to strengthen the existing responses. We therefore believe that it is necessary to ensure that municipalities with fewer resources are able to act due to present or future budgetary constraints and, in this way, we propose not only that all expenditure incurred in the fight against COVID-19 does not contain for the limits of municipal indebtedness, but also that it is basically created a financial support line, to function with the government, to ensure interest-free loans to municipalities to combat this health crisis that we have experienced. I would also like to say that we also propose that there be a strengthening of means, in conjunction between the Government and the local authorities, in matters we believe to be fundamental. This is the case of aid to victims of domestic violence, with the strengthening of means of response not only in calls but also in post-contact. This is the case with aid to more than 43 000 elderly people in isolation — the latest GNR census — extremely vulnerable people, which reinforces with this additional factor of social isolation. This is the case with aid to persons in a homeless condition, in particular with the strengthening of housing responses to ensure isolation, which is so requested to all people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u39	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u40	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is the case with aid to animal guardians, ensuring that, for example, in the case of admission with COVID-19, it is guaranteed to feed and care for their animals. And finally, it's the case of fire prevention. We understand that it is necessary for the Government to create a support mechanism for authorities and individuals to clean up fuel lines so that we do not subsequently have another crisis of another kind. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u41	Mr Luís Testa, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u42	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: A week ago, we met and demonstrated - we are aware of the extraordinary moment in which we live and of the particular need for combating the crisis - which we also live - by local authorities, who are basically close to the communities and who can promote faster and more effective aid to all the people. We realize that as time passes, from the extraordinary moment we live, from the exceptional moment we live, we only have not yet an absolute notion of the dimension of exceptionality. When, a week ago, we discussed a number of proposals that attributed powers, competences and capacities to local authorities, there was the notion, which we were well aware of, that local authorities constituted themselves in the front line of aid to populations and in the first line of combating this health crisis. A week ago, we had the opportunity to say that it would perhaps be necessary to return to this debate and that it would be necessary to promote even more measures that would also help to increase the capacity of local authorities. We have not been wrong and, a week later, we are here to debate and certainly approve the measures that local authorities need. The local authorities are the main source of recourse to the daily use of the population, either within the municipal or within the parish, or in the assemblies of the parish, or in the councils of the parish. Therefore, we cannot only deny these local authorities capacity and agility, as we have an obligation to encourage all the mechanisms that enable the authorities to act safely and firmly. As I mentioned one week ago, I would like to mention again today: it is quite possible that the dimension of exceptionality will be revealed more than what we know today and that we may have to return to this debate, because we already know how this debate started, but we do not know how the debate will end. Here will be the Socialist Party, and the government, of course, to provide local authorities with all the time and in all the circumstances of their needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u43	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u44	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The authorities today need to be much more economically, financially and materially strengthened. Exactly because today all social support initiatives for the most vulnerable populations also need to be strengthened. We must not forget that the usual situations of inequality and housing segregation add up to social isolation and difficulties today. This is where my initiatives are presented to strengthen social support for the elderly and women victims of domestic violence. I stress that between March 2019 and March this year there has been an increase of more than 50 % of domestic violence. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the authorities in order to resolve situations of social emergency immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u45	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u46	Mr President, I had not signed up to use the floor in the discussion of this agenda item.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u47	Mr, you have been overzealous at the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u48	Mr. President, thank you. That there's a first time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u49	Mr Ventura has the floor, then, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u50	Mr. President and Mr. Members: We are discussing today a measure that allows us, essentially, to bring to our authorities, which are in line with this fight, a fundamental financial flexibility. It makes sense and, therefore, it will not hinder this proposal. In any case, there are three issues that deserve discussion here. The first — and the CFP also referred to this situation — is the depreciation of these loans. The criteria and the way the government proposes to depreciate this credit are not enforceable, especially because we do not know what the duration of this crisis will be and what impact it will have on the funds of autarchic treasury. Therefore, asking for amortization by the end of the year or by the middle of the next year is clearly impractical. Finally, there are two points that would deserve at least the attention of the Government. The first relates to the IMI (municipal property tax ). It becomes impractical at the moment that the IMI continues to be paid the way it is being. The second, and the main point to be considered, relates to VAT ( value added tax ). We have municipalities to complain that, when they buy protective material, they are paying VAT. That's what we're saying we're buying material and we're still giving the state money in the fight against the pandemic. The central state, which has the first obligation to fight this pandemic, to provide adequate, current, effective material, is...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u51	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u52	Mr. President, I will finish. As I said, the Central State is charging VAT on protective material. This should at least be adjusted, either with a legislative review or with a compensation fund to which the VAT has already been paid and now deserves to be reimbursed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u53	For one speech, the Minister for Modernization of the State and Public Administration, Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This set of measures, continuing the line of what, already last week, was approved here, aims to support local authorities and to give them flexibility and also financial mechanisms so that they immediately, at first hand, respond to a logic of proximity, which is, as we know, the logic that governs the operation of the local administration. But I did not want the idea to remain — because it is not fair — that, through these measures, it is intended to cast the responsibilities of the central administration. It's not what you want and it's not what you've done. We must not forget the remarkable role that has been played on the ground at the level of central administration, including the National Health Service, social security, authority and security forces, in particular in partnership with universities. It is, for example, in this profitable partnership that a very ambitious test programme has been developed, especially for our populations most vulnerable to this pandemic. Therefore, it is not a question of casting responsibility, but before, in a collaborative logic and a very fruitful and very supportive partner, it is possible to remove difficulties which the law, at normal time, in its normal procedures, can create, and which are not procedures compatible with the emergency and emergency situation that we live in. I would also like to say that these flexibilitys are justified in a logical response to an exceptional situation, but, of course, without calling into question democracy and pluralism, because it is always present and is always a concern and a basic principle, regardless of the flexibility that we all now agree on, I believe in creating. On the one hand, we have already approved measures to eliminate the limits of indebtedness, to simplify procedures, the exception to the law of commitments, and others which may be considered necessary, always in close collaboration with the authorities. That is to say, very clearly, that I am not pushing aside the possibility of other measures, as things develop and needs are being felt, the discussion is brought here at a later stage. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u55	We now turn to the second item on our agenda, which is generally discussed in the Bill No. 23 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs an exceptional regime for flexible enforcement of penalties and free measures within the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic. You have the floor, for one speech, Mrs. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem, which I am taking advantage of to congratulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal is one of the countries of Europe with the highest rate of European Union imprisonment per 100 000 inhabitants. It is higher than France, Italy, Belgium, Germany, Greece and the Netherlands. We are the second largest country in Europe. We are overcome only by Azerbaijan and, despite this, we have a crime structure dominated by small and medium-intensity phenomena. In addition, we have the fourth oldest population in the Council of Europe. In addition to aging, our prison population is aware of a high prevalence of health problems, with many cases of comorbidity. On 16 March, 16 460 prisoners with risk pathologies existed in the prison system. Many of our establishments, especially the oldest ones, with housing in large winged comrades, have no conditions to ensure the proper social distance to avoid situations of contagion. On the other hand, in several establishments, employment rates are not compatible with the creation of containment areas that enable treatment under the isolation of infected prisoners. What we know today is that, considering the structure of our prison establishments, the infection of a prisoner, in a large establishment, may lead, within a week, to the contagion of 200 and, from then on, the contagion evolves into geometric progression. The conditions of confinement create an increased risk for those who are arrested, regardless of being a carrier of risk pathologies. We have a clear perception that we are facing a conflict of interests and radical values: on the one hand, the protection of health, the life of prisoners and their guardians; on the other hand, respect for victims, the protection of victims, the security and maintenance of public order rests with condemnation. We have made a choice that we consider balanced in time and mode. We have drawn up cautious measures that, responding adequately to the emergency of public health that we live, do not take away the essential principles, governing our criminal systems and enforcement of penalties. [[Greetings from the PS and the MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Forgiveness, as drawn up in our proposal, confines liberation to low-risk standards. I recall that forgiveness was granted in Portugal, in democracy at least three times : in 1986, in 1994 ( at the time Mr Cavaco Silva was Prime Minister ) and in 1999, with Eng. Antonio Guterres as Prime Minister, of course we were not before a pandemic but holidays.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u57	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u58	The measures we are presenting today allow the protection of the most fragile and the release of prison space, because this is essential, without putting a risk that we consider unbearable the public order and tranquility and the feelings of security of the community, already affected by this crisis. We do not want to add panic to panic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u60	In short, the proposal we bring gives body to a power of human face, which needs, in the way of Jano, two sides, two complementary faces, oriented towards the same end: on the one hand, to severity; on the other hand, to clemency. These faces, dosed to the right extent, are not only not annulled each other as they allow to achieve the same end. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude: belief in justice will be as much as greater than the power to punish, not only the power to forgive but above all the power to forgive. Knowing forgiveness includes the ability to forgive and the ability to choose who should be forgiven, how and when.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u61	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u62	I'm done now, Mr. President. From our point of view, the proposal has this wisdom. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u63	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u64	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : No one denies that the health and life of prisoners and the people who keep them must be protected from the epidemic of COVID-19. Nor does anyone deny that our prisons are overcrowded and that they have the oldest populations in Europe. Finally, no one denies that any solution to this issue will necessarily go by reducing, even if temporarily, the prison population, but, among the various possible ways of doing and the various figures contained in this bill, the Government favours what is best handled: forgiveness of penalty, subject only to the criteria of the remaining penalty time and the typology of crime. The government does not make decisions conditional on the prior performance of any health test, which means not knowing what risk the communities in which these prisoners would be re-entered; it does not verify that the prisoners in question have conditions of house confinement; it does not take care to ensure that these prisoners are prepared to be re-entered or that society is at least ready to receive them at this time. Also in the figure of the pardons and exit licences is not the least care with the concrete situation. It seems that there is more concern about being a 'good student' and meeting the recommendations of the High Commissioner for Human Rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u65	It wasn't bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u66	For all this, our vote on this proposal for a government law will depend, above all, on the adoption of several amendments proposed to this House. The Liberal Initiative will not approve any legislation that undermines people's confidence in law and the fair functioning of the criminal system.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u67	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, of the PAN, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State : The difficult situation we live in, marked by the state of emergency, presents a relevant variant, based on social isolation, which has a double objective: on the one hand, the individual protection of citizens; on the other hand, the protection of the community also, with a view to, of course, limit the number of infected. This situation also highlights some of our weaknesses. In particular, in the context of prison establishments, these weaknesses range from the existing model itself, which characterizes this system, overcrowding, recidivism issues and, also, the inability to often adopt measures that in some way promote more effective social reintegration of individuals. We cannot ignore the fact that there are indeed some overcrowding prison establishments, as is emphasized in the report of the Council of Europe, which was known yesterday, combined with a high prevalence of various health problems in the prison population, as was also recently recognised by the Ombudsman. Therefore, given the humanitarian values that we must be guided by, in fact, necessary and fundamental to alleviate the pressure of this context and the excessive occupation in prisons, not only in order to be able to adopt measures of greater social isolation, but also in order to safeguard the physical integrity of the most vulnerable range of the prison population. Consequently, it seems to us that there are clear measures in the proposal for a law based on the release of prisoners under differentiated regimes, which must be combined, however, with other aspects, also important, that they have to see, from the outset, that we avoid social alarm and the lack of understanding of the measure, aroused above all by the release of more than 3000 prisoners, as still in the morning the Minister had the opportunity to clarify us. We believe that, precisely in the sense that there is no such misunderstanding, prisoners benefiting from the schemes provided for in the proposed law should be directed mostly to the extraordinary system of administrative leave, with proper monitoring of electronic surveillance, common 'electronic bracelet'. But, above all, it must be taken into account its social and labour reintegration, otherwise we will in fact be failing one of the purposes of criminal law, which has to do with the reintegration of the individual and with the purpose of punishment itself. We believe that the partial penalty forgiveness regime should only be used in clearly exceptional cases, in which the verification of the practice of minor crimes is involved, as well as we intend that the exceptional pardon scheme should not be applied in an avulge manner in this case. in this sense, we do not follow this measure, because it seems to us disproportionate to what is said to be guarded and which can also be achieved for other purposes, namely by the administrative exit licence, thus enhancing a measure which, in some way, protects beneficiaries from this context. We also believe that the allocation of this administrative leave to pregnant women should be guaranteed. It does not seem to us that this is clearly expressed in this bill and therefore we think that it should be clear, for the same humanitarian reasons that mobilize us with regard to the older population or with vulnerabilities, precisely because there are now prisoners with children in prison context who also have to be protected in this situation. In time, there will necessarily be a debate about the reform of the prison system. Now is not the time, but the fact that this process can be misunderstood by the general population may regret the debate that we will inevitably have to do in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u69	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u70	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: This proposal, which the Government is making to us in good rigour, seeks to materialise, legally, the recommendations made by the United Nations and also the recommendation recently issued by the Ombudsman in the context of the fight against COVID-19. In fact, the United Nations has advised Member States to take urgent measures as a way to prevent the devastation in prisons, including by suggesting to States the weighting of measures to free particularly vulnerable prisoners from COVID-19, including the elderly, patients and low-risk offenders. The Ombudsman, in turn, suggests the adoption of a scheme for flexibility in exit licences. The Government, through this proposal, accepts the recommendations of these two entities. The problem we are experiencing and the characteristics of the prison environment, both because of the prevalence of health problems, as well as because of the ageing of prison pollution, are leading us to a situation in which, in fact, action is required to ensure the emergence of outbreaks of infection in prisons and, at the same time, if we avoid or at least reduce the risk of their spread. The Government therefore proposes exceptional measures to reduce and simplify the prison sentence and its pardon, guided by criteria, our view, fairness and proportionality, which can minimize the risk arising from the concentration of people in prisons, facilitating social withdrawal and without reaching the sense of community security. We are talking about prison sentences that are not more than 2 years old, or, in the case of penalties applied of longer duration, if the remaining time for serving the sentence is equal to or less than 2 years. They exclude from forgiveness, as it is well understood, the penalties applied for crimes for which there are still requirements for the prevention and stabilization of Community security feelings. It also proposes an exceptional penalty pardon regime, provided that prisoners are 65 years old or older and the pathologies they are suffering or their autonomy are incompatible with prison stay in this pandemic we live in. In other words, the Government seeks to meet the recommendations of both the United Nations and the Ombudsman and does so, in our view, with balance and proportionality, ensuring the essential, in particular, the sense of security of the whole community. We therefore follow up on the set of measures proposed by the Government. But, Madam Minister, I still have time and once the Minister, at the end of the debate, will still use the floor, she would like to ask you a question about the following: today, at the hearing of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, she said that there is room for educational centres to ensure the isolation of children and young people but she did not refer to staff, professionals who, already in normal circumstances, are very insufficient in these educational centres. Now, to ensure the isolation of children and young people living in these centres is not enough physical space, there is also a need for sufficient staff. What I am asking, Minister, is whether the government is considering hiring more employees for these educational centres.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u71	I call on the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group Mr Telmo Correia for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u72	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: First of all, I would like to say, Madam Minister, as we said this morning, that what you have proposed today in terms of the release of prisoners does not solve the problem. I was then told by the Minister that we would be talking about the exit of about 2000 prisoners. If the population is close to 13 000, 11 000 will continue there. Our first question was, of course, the speed and effectiveness of the contingency plan and the second question was the measures taken. Regardless of this, I conclude, Mrs Minister, that this measure essentially aims to—and this is the obvious conclusion—to gain some space for the effectiveness of these measures within the prison system. I am obviously not insensitive to the humanistic argument that presides over such an intention, even though I tell you, Minister, that, in France, for example, the measure was applied to two months after the end of the sentence and not to two years, which is our standard. I would also like to tell you that, in principle, we would be voting against the various forgivenesss which the Minister has mentioned, either this or the previous, now or in the past. However, more important than that is a series of guarantees that we believe are fundamental to this measure. The first guarantee is the question of social danger. Prison services, in any of these measures, were required to ensure that those coming out do not represent social danger, depending on the type of crime and their behaviour. Secondly, in our view, they could not be convicted, for example, of crimes such as drug trafficking, which was not acceptable in any case, even in the lighter penalties, as those who committed crimes against agents or security forces could not be released. If the members of the security forces who are convicted do not leave, those who have committed crimes against the security forces should at least leave. Thirdly, there must be guarantees from the point of view of public health. Of course, Mrs Minister, it is necessary to ensure that those who leave will not constitute an external chain, outside, contagion of this or even of other contagious diseases. None of us are specialists in this area — in particular, I and the Minister are not — but we must have that safeguard. I would say that it was recommended, at least, to test those who are going to leave, i.e. that the 2000s who are going to leave should be tested so as not to be integrated into communities where they may constitute a problem. On the other hand, obviously, Mrs. Minister, there is a problem, which is the following: we have the generality of the domiciled population, in isolation, removing those who, like us, continue in public functions and those who are working every day to save lives or to ensure that the country works. The population is in isolation and, from my point of view, it does not make much sense for prisoners to be released who, in some cases, may not have an established home. I mean, you need to know why some of those prisoners are going out. In addition, the State must tell us that it has the means to control that they will be in that same household.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u73	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u74	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. On the other hand, anyone returning should have to be quarantined — it is also a proposal we make. Without these assurances, Madam Minister, we will hardly be able to follow this solution, even if we can understand the humanist intention underlying it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u75	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u76	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State and Mr Members: What is proposed today by the Government through a proposal for a law, to which the CFP tabled amendments, in the specialty, which will shortly be voted on, appears to us as an exceptional measure, dictated by exceptional circumstances. However, this was not the case with previous losses, those to which the Minister mentioned from the 1990s that were clemency measures that did not have to do with any exceptional circumstances like this which we now want to do. There are, therefore, some aspects which, from our point of view, should be very clear: first of all, what has to motivate this initiative is to find a response, as appropriate as possible, to this pandemic in the context of the prison system and not to solve problems of lotion of the prison system. That is not, nor can it, from our point of view, be the mobile of this initiative — it is not, it is not! We do not consider this to be the mobile of the bill, nor is it certainly not the one of the proposals presented by the CFP here. It is a matter of being aware that there is no institution in the national community that does not have to take action in the face of this pandemic and obviously that the prison system, given its vulnerability to this phenomenon, could not be an exception. We couldn't turn our backs on the prisons, the prisoners, the guards, the professionals who work there. We could not turn our backs, realize that this problem does not exist and does not try to find the best solutions in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u78	Then we must consider the following: of course, the measures to be taken must be balanced in order to avoid fear, in order to prevent people from thinking that there are those who have committed serious crimes and are released by these measures. It is therefore necessary to avoid social alarm and to find a list of crimes that those who committed them cannot benefit from these measures. And this cast is actually there: whoever committed serious crimes, violent crimes, blood crimes, corruption crimes, sexual violence crimes, domestic violence crimes. There are a wide range of crimes that those who committed them cannot benefit from these measures. Even if he has also been convicted of other crimes, he will not benefit from any forgiveness, because whoever committed these crimes does not go out, simply. Then it cannot be an administrative measure, and it is not, it is the penalties enforcement courts which, with their high criteria, will have to apply, in each specific case, the legislation that will be approved. therefore that the CFP has proposed some adjustments to this proposed law, which are in the direction of this balance of not feeding any demagogic idea that there is here an intention, by the legislator, to now take advantage of this COVID-19 pandemic to relieve the prison system and release some inmates, without having a perfect understanding of what is necessary to avoid with this measure. But, Madam Minister, we do not hesitate, we understand that demagogy does not face cowardly giving in to the demagogues, it faces the truth, telling people the truth and defending what is just and decent and that is our position in this process. [[PCP, BE, ENP, MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u79	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is an exceptional initiative in an environment of exceptionality, pandemic and health emergency. It is not a usual initiative, nor is it an initiative for which one can look as normal. I think it is exactly related to the values that this time demands from us individually and collectively of lucidity and humanity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u81	Mr André Coelho Lima has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Very soon to say that the doubts expressed by the PSD regarding the intention to leave the last Council of Ministers are public, and these doubts have been consistently realized in an alternative proposal that the PSD has made and that is also being discussed here today. This proposal is essentially based on the fact that forgiveness of sentences is not the necessary way out for what is to be achieved and, above all, we consider that the replacement of an effective prison sentence for a domestic prison sentence will be the most appropriate way to achieve, always — and this is the fundamental point — addressing the risk groups, i.e. the prison population within the risk groups. Here, Mr President, I would like to say the following: our proposal is essentially based on the proportionality of the measure. Is it your reason to be — and that everyone is concerned — humanitarian and public health, will forgiveness be the necessary and indispensable measure or will there be other less serious ones? Clearly, in our view, there are other less serious ones, as I have just mentioned, i.e. the housing permanence regime, commonly known as house arrest. Mr Minister, in this area of sensitivity, to legislate at a time of these calls for balanced solutions with the seriousness that the measure clearly justifies. On this I also wanted to share some numbers, which are important for us to realize proportionality, which is the fundamental point. First, we had knowledge of 1200 prisoners who could be covered by this measure. Today, this number exceeded 2000. I have even seen media agencies assign to the Minister the reference to number 2700. This substantial change in figures does not contribute to the serenity that we need to consider this legislative proposal. Madam Minister, we have found that today, curiously, the number of people infected in our country by the COVID-19 has exceeded 13 000 people, we have to regret 380 deaths, which corresponds to 2.9%, and we are, as a prevention measure in national prisons, wanting to release, for the same number of the population, that is 13 000 people — not enough, but we will put the same number — about 20 % of the prison population. This is when we also need to know that we have a COVID-19 prisoner who was not infected inside the chains, was arrested with COVID-19 and immediately sent to a prison hospital. I mean, there's no situation! We must all realize that if the virus reaches within our chains, what none of us wants, it does not reach all at the same time — if it reaches one, it does not reach the second; if it reaches two, it does not reach the third, which means that there are other more sensitive ways to combat this issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u83	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u84	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that this initiative, in our view, does not promote humanitarian action but rather an arbitrary reduction. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u85	Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u86	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs Deputies and Mr Members: This diploma we are discussing today is a sensitive diploma, that is no doubt. But it is an absolutely necessary diploma that comes to respond to constant appeals, not only from international bodies but also from our country, from suspicious people such as Mr. Bastonário of the Order of Lawyers, Mrs. Ombudsman or even the Catholic Church. We all know that prisons, by their own structure and by the way they are organized, are a very relevant danger factor for a rapid spread of COVID if they enter prisons. This would naturally lead to a very large increase in fatalities and, therefore, we have to prevent it, and we have to prevent it in a way that is naturally responsible. I believe that the Government's diploma, with some amendments proposed by the PCP, the Socialist Party and even the CDS-PP, can perfectly find this balance that we must have between the protection of the health of any person, especially prisoners but also of all those who work in prisons, and, on the other hand, our right as citizens, to security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this balance is achieved. The PSD says that it is not, but I find the PSD proposal, which unfortunately did not want to reach consensus, an irresponsible proposal, by the following: firstly, it is not feasible, since it is not possible, from today to tomorrow, to buy electronic means of surveillance. Then it's a demagogic proposal. Why? Because if, on the one hand, I refuse forgiveness, on the other hand, it proposes an almost unlimited system of pardon—and I translate to the citizens: pardon means forgiveness. But it is not forgiveness of the penalty or the rest of the penalty, of that penalty of someone who is fulfilling it not because he has committed a serious crime but because he has no financial capacity to pay the fine to which he has been convicted, or then of the one who has not committed any serious crime but only a little longer and who will be released soon. No, the PSD prefers, then, through a formula called pardon, in a very general way, to forgive the penalty to all people, regardless of the crime they have committed. More: not respecting the will of Mr President of the Republic, who has been expressed, to use the pardon only in a very limited and very restrictive way. I believe that this proposal that is on the table, with the amendments and the valid contributions of the PCP as well as some of the CDS-PP, can find here a solution...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u87	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u88	...balanced between humanism and our right to security. Therefore, it ended with an appeal to the PSD to join the consensus. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u89	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u90	Mr President, Minister : This law is an infamy, an infamy! The Minister is here today, and she said that she also remembered the victims and the safety of Portuguese people, but she proposes to release 10 % of the prison population — I repeat, 10 % — so that they can hear us at home. It does not make an analysis of whether or not they are recurrences, whether or not they may or may not commit crimes, whether or not there is a level of social danger. And if we have a pardon with criteria, we do not have a pardon with criteria: anyone who is over 65 years old and is in a situation of such vulnerability, a sexual abuser, for example, can be released.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u91	You can't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u92	May you, Minister! [[You can't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u93	May you, Minister! [[It's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u94	May you, Minister! [[You can't!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u95	May you, Minister! [[It's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u96	May you, Minister! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u97	I ask you to let the speaker intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u98	Yes! Yes! [[It's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u99	Mr. André Ventura, please continue. [[No lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u100	More: we have a license for 45 days that is not decided by a court or a judge but by an administrative officer. Say it's a lie too! [[It's a lie!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u101	Say it's a lie too! [[PS protests.]] It's not a lie, it's pure! We have become the greatest conflict of all time in the interdependence and violation of powers. More: we have no cases in prison that justify it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u102	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u103	Mr President, I would ask you only to allow us to finish because this Parliament has not allowed me. [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u104	Mr President, I did not tell you to finish now, I asked you to finish. I therefore ask you to close the sentence quickly, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u105	Mr President, in our prisons we do not have situations of COVID-19 but not marginal. What you are going to do now is not a humanitarian pardon and it is not even a proper pardon that Portuguese society recognises.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u106	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded. You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u107	What you are going to do now is an ideological option for the release of people who must be in jail, who must be within the prison system. [[PS and PCP protests.]] This is what will be done, in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u108	I now give the floor to Mr José Manuel Pureza for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u109	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: The reduction of the population in prison establishments is a measure of common sense and meridian prudence, in the context of a fight against the pandemic that combines effectiveness with a sense of humanity. In the face of exceptional threats, exceptional measures are required and this is one of the exceptional measures that requires the moment to be taken. It's not a panacea, but it's a necessary measure. It is not acceptable for society to condemn prisoners, prison guards, reintegration technicians, health professionals and all those who work daily in prisons living at a risk of contamination that we want to prevent in all other areas. Guards are people, technicians are people, inmates are people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u110	It is the health of these people who are concerned and it is the one who recommends the approval of this proposal from the Government and a substantial part of the proposals to amend the various parliamentary groups. And this public health imperative requires that the measures taken be immediately enforceable, because it is already and here — and not from here to time and in a country with different conditions from ours — that we will have to act. We therefore reject the PSD proposal, because it assumes technological requirements that are unfortunately not available nor will they be immediately, leading to the maintenance of the current lotion of prisons and the immense risk that this lot is now. Having said that, the Left Block wants to add two considerations. The first is that, in supporting this proposal, we are prepared to strongly denounce the inhumanity and irresponsibility of the populism of the extreme right, which does not hesitate to resort to lies—as we now have seen! — and terror against public health of all. [[Congratulations from BE, PS and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira.]] To excite the masses in social networks, the extreme right doesn't want to know about the life or health of guards, nurses, prisoners or technicians. « An infamy», Mr André Ventura would say. Against this immense irresponsibility, the Left Block chooses common sense and good as priorities. The second consideration — and with it, Mr President — is an observation for the future. If anything this circumstance teaches us, we must adopt a social and judicial culture that does not see in the storage of thousands of people in prisons a good one. After this urgency, we will have to be able to give more strength to a policy of penalties that does not have your alpha and omega in prison. This is the commitment of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u111	To close this debate, with an intervention by the Government, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u112	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Members who have made a positive contribution to this debate. I would first of all like to clarify a fact, which has evidently been generating a lot of agitation about numbers. When we talk about forgiveness, what is at stake is at most 1000 cases, that is, 500 and so they have penalties up to 2 years and about 400 related to the others. The others are people who will have the extraordinary license, and it is certain that, today, the directors-general of reintegration and prison services can already authorize permits to prisoners up to the limit of eight days. So what we're doing is we're expanding this possibility. Then I also wanted to tell you that, indeed, prisons are still a safe space. at this moment they are probably the safest space and from there that, when they ask the question of contamination by those who come from within - and we can admit the possibility of doing anything no matter what to ensure that people do not come contaminated - I would say that it is easier to think that it is the outside that contaminates prisons than vice versa. Then I would like to tell you that the IRS (Instituto de Reintegração Social ) is available to, within its capabilities, accompany these people who will leave and who may not have an adequate rearguard. I shall end by saying to you this: they are humanitarian reasons inscribed in the code of honour of any society that is preeminent that they do not keep themselves in a situation of over-exposure to the risk of the epidemic because they are over-exposure to the risk — weaker citizens who are in custody of the State. We present these proposals in the name of an idea of State decency and I repeat here what I wrote elsewhere: "A decent state treats its citizens equally, protects them in need, runs them in disaster, puts them seriously into conflict with the social pact that unites us, imprisons them, but treats them with dignity. A decent state does not leave behind any of its citizens, even if they are in prison. Do not keep on seeking. ” A state that risks condemning thousands of citizens to death, decimated by an epidemic—because the day the COVID enters the prisons will be like this! — just because they are condemned, it is a weak state, it is a sick state. We are not that state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u113	You have to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u114	Mr. President, I will finish. by making this proposal, we honor the humanist tradition of a country that was pioneer in the abolition of the death penalty, while reaffirming the dignity of the human person as a central reference of our life in community. [[Greetings from the PS and the MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[At the moment, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u115	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to inform you that, by consensus between all the banks and Members, there was an exchange in the agenda of work previously defined. Therefore, instead of moving now to the third item on the agenda, we will continue with the fourth point, i.e. with the joint debate of the bills (generally) and the following draft resolutions: Bill No. 261 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — prohibits dismissal until 31 July 2020 and prevents termination of the contract during the experimental period; Bill No. 264 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Enlarge, pursuant to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March, the shortcomings justified during Easter holidays and recognises the shortcomings for assistance to dependent elderly persons; Bill No. 266 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — sets the maximum number of daily and weekly hours for workers on telework to assist children and dependents; Bill No. 271 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Strengthening of the social security telephone line; Bill No. 273 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amends Decree-Law No 10 - J / 2020 of 26 March by strengthening support for social economy entities; Bill No. 274 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amend Law Decree No. 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March, Law No. 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March and Decree Law No. 10 - K / 2020 of 26 March, giving greater protection to professionals, families and risk groups in response to the epidemiological situation COVID-19 ; Bill No. 277 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — suspends all public participation and consultation proceedings, while imposing or advising the social isolation resulting from COVID-19 ; Bill No. 278 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Allowance of allowances to workers in risk, penosity and insanity conditions; Bill No. 279 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Support for fishing workers for the suspension of activity due to COVID-19 through the Salary Compensation Fund for Fisheries Professionals ; Bill No. 284 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures to respond to the social crisis; Bill No. 286 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes a capital shortage scheme to apply to housing credits; Bill No. 290 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Determines the invalidity of acts performed in violation of the Labour Code rules or other special labour legislation in the period during which exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemic by COVID-19 are in force ; Bill No. 291 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Making the layoff scheme more comprehensive( 1 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ; Bill No. 296 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates the exemption of proof that the COVID-19 disease contracted by workers of essential services and related activities is a necessary and direct consequence of the activity carried out, for the purposes of the application of the occupational disease regime; Bill No. 306 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March, giving an exceptional situation of support to individuals, bridging joints and municipalities for the cleaning of forest biomass in the context of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic ; Bill No. 308 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — Extends the subjective scope of job protection measures in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic ( 1 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ; Bill No. 311 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — adopt protection measures for children and young people at risk; Bill No. 316 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures the social protection of trainees and IEFP trainees while implementing exemption measures under COVID-19 ; Bill No. 319 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures social protection support for workers with precarious employment links in a situation of unemployment, including taxi workers and domestic workers; Bill No. 322 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Guarantees social protection for workers of temporary work enterprises who have been fired; Bill No. 324 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — extends the limit of extraordinary support for self-employed persons for the reduction of economic activity; Bill No. 325 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Reduces the period of guarantee of access to unemployment benefit; Bill No. 327 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Support for families with dependents to attend private and cooperative educational establishments and the social and solidarity sector of education; Bill No. 329 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Regularizes with urgency the precarious links with pending processes under PREVPAP; Bill No. 332 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthen support measures for homeless people; Draft Resolution No 318 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Measures to support workers, including green receipt workers, within the framework of the contingency plan of COVID-19 ; Draft Resolution No 327 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Recommends the creation of specific responses from COVID-19 to monitor the elderly population; Draft Resolution No. 330 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — ensures the full accessibility of deaf people to the National Health Service Contact Centre ( SNS24 ) ; Draft Resolution No 333 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Strengthening the protection of COVID-19 users in the homes of elderly people; Draft Resolution No 335 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government undertake the lifting of the needs and the consequent adoption of response mechanisms for homeless persons; Draft Resolution No 339 / XIV / 1. a (NAP) — Ensures that health professionals, security forces and services professionals and civil protection elements and workers in the area of urban waste access to personal protective equipment; Draft Resolution No 344 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — recommends to the Government an extraordinary review of the objectives that serve as assessment parameters within the framework of SIADAP and private employer assessment systems; Draft Resolution No. 345 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — Strengthening support for health professionals and users in the situation of the COVID-19 pandemic ; Draft Resolution No. 352 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the elimination of discriminatory barriers of deaf people in access to information and treatment in the context of the fight against COVID-19; Draft Resolution No 356 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the extension of exceptional support to the family for workers on behalf of others and self-employed during the Easter holidays; Draft Resolution No. 361 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — establishes the non-applicability of municipal indebtedness limits during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and a financial support line for local authorities to implement programmes to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by SARS-CoV-2; Draft Resolution No. 363 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support self-employed, informal workers and other precarious workers; Draft Resolution No 365 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Protection of the elderly of the SARS-CoV-2 virus in elderly households (including those without alvará); Draft Resolution No 368 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government grant a 20 % remuneration supplement to essential service workers; Draft Resolution No 370 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Support for the social and solidarity sector under the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of COVID-19 ; Draft Resolution No 371 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Exceptional and temporary measures to support families with children up to 12 years of age and children with disabilities in the face of the epidemiological situation of COVID-19 ; Draft Resolution No 378 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — The creation of a social crisis supplement ( CSC ). The Bureau is therefore looking forward to the inclusions of the parliamentary groups for interventions on this fourth item on the agenda. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u116	Mr President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u117	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u118	Mr President, I believe that this amendment to the agenda requires unanimity from the banks. It is that I was not even consulted and I find it very strange that Mr President refers to consensus. I have nothing to oppose, but if they will invoke my consensus, I hope at least they will ask me.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u119	Mr President, the information I had, as soon as I took the Presidency, was that there was this unanimity. If this is not the case, I would like to take the plenary into account whether or not there is unanimity in order to exchange the third item on the agenda with the fourth item. [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, we move forward as quickly as possible. Mr António Filipe asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u120	Mr President, I am very sorry that we did not, in fact, consult Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo. It was a lapse of ours, for which we were penitent. It was the PCP that asked for the deference of the benches, insofar as our parliamentary leader, who would like to intervene on this point, is in meeting with Mr. Prime Minister, who, as you know, is listening to the parties. That is why we call for the consensus of the various sides so that we can change the order of the debates. I would therefore like to make it clear that this was the reason, thanking the availability expressed by all the benches and apologizing for, in fact, not having consulted the honourable Members. Only representatives of the party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u121	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is no opposition, then we will continue with the debate on the fourth item on the agenda, for which we already have an inscription, which is precisely Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u122	Mr President, this is always good! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Interviring for 1 minute over 42 diplomas will, of course, establish a record any in the Assembly, because there would be much to say about layoffs, justified misconduct, pay supplement, number of hours in telework, support to the social sector, subsidies to workers at risk, exemption from disease test. They are all subjects of greater importance, certainly not less important than those of accompanying the elderly population, deaf people, homeless people, the homes of the elderly, children with disabilities, children and young people at risk. Or he could also choose to speak about the situation of workers in the waste area, the evaluation of SIADAP ( Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System in Public Administration ), the limits of municipal indebtedness or support for cleaning forest biomass. You got the idea. I could be here for a long time, but I only have time to draw two illusions: one is that the government is as sloppy in crises as they are, so many are the gaps in the measures and diplomas that the government has presented and that these proposals intend, in some way, to solve; another is that this crisis does not expose just the impreparation of our state, it exposes, above all, the Byzantine complexity of the rules, the exceptions, the distinctions, the classifications and a whole suffocating bureaucracy which, inevitably, is grasped. Millions of Portuguese already live under this complexity every day and were already doing so before the COVID-19 crisis. The Liberal Initiative will vote in such a way that, when this great battle against the virus is over, these Portuguese people do not continue to be subjected to bureaucracy and can finally breathe a little better.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u123	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The epidemic outbreak of COVID-19 and the measures that had to be applied to combat the virus caused profound economic and social impacts, employment, income, productive activity. In view of this reality, in view of the exceptional times in which we live, measures must be taken to safeguard the living conditions of the population, to revive the economy and productive activity. Energy is an essential asset for people and a determining factor in production. We have one of the most expensive energy invoices in Europe in Portugal and, in the situation in which we live, it is necessary that families and businesses that continue to produce every day can have a relief in energy costs. Since the beginning of the year, prices for international energy markets have fallen significantly, but this low has not been reflected in proportion to the prices paid by consumers. See the evolution of the Brent barrel price. In March, Brent fell by more than 28 %, while the price before tax of gas oil and gasoline dropped by only about 13 %. This means that the economic groups that dominate the sector are taking advantage of a greater profit margin. This situation is not new and stems from the wrong option for privatization and price liberalisation, but it is particularly serious in the period in which we live. Also in electricity and natural gas we see that the downward trend in international markets is not reflected in the prices charged to consumers. The reduction proposed by ERSE ( Regulatory Energy Services Entity) is only 3 % and, above all, in natural gas only applies from October. It is now, and not in October, that we need to answer the problems. For these reasons, the CFP proposes that the Government, within the framework of the price-setting powers, can ensure a more substantial reduction in the price of electricity and gas, with immediate application, also proposing the creation of an extraordinary regime which decrees maximum prices on fuels, thus benefiting families and productive activity. The CFP also reiterates the proposal to prohibit interruptions in the supply of essential goods such as electricity, gas, water or communications. No one can run out of water or light, gas or internet at this stage we're going through. In housing, beyond the measures directed at renting, it is also necessary to safeguard those who have bought their own house through credit to housing. The Government has created a scheme for the protection of claims which applies only to those who comply with certain circumstances — layoffs, layoffs, prophylactic isolation, among others — but, in the case of housing credit for the purchase of their own and permanent housing, what the PCP has to propose is that access to the period of shortage, without additional costs, be granted to those who request it without having to prove any such circumstances, because we know that many people who do not meet these criteria are experiencing enormous difficulties in paying the house. The time we live requires solidarity, requires measures to put people's lives ahead of the profits of the large economic groups, requires measures to revive the productive economy and face the future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u125	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva, from the Parliamentary Group of the Greens, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We will not tire of thanking health workers, public safety, waste collection, farmers, trade workers, services and others who do not stop, who every day go to their places of work and return at the end of the day to their families in the certainty of transporting with you tomorrow in this country. Although we are at a time of struggle with an invisible enemy, we cannot admit that some believe that workers' rights are also quarantined or isolated. They're not! For this reason, the Greens are bringing the debate today a set of measures to prevent or minimize the foot-and-mouth disease. We remember the rights of workers with term contracts or in an experimental period dismissed, some without the payment of their March salary or any social protection. We therefore propose a reduction in the guarantee period for access to unemployment benefit and an extension of the limit of extraordinary support for self-employed workers for the reduction of economic activity. We defend the allocation of 20 % of the basic remuneration, while in force this special period, to workers who do their work under risk, penosity and insanity conditions, subsidized and claimed subsidies for years. It is also necessary to ensure that, in cases where parents are working from house to house on a full-time basis and at the same time to take care of children, there is a reduction in working hours without loss of pay, in order to allow support for children under 15 years of age, with disabilities or with chronic illness. in another area, The Greens propose that all public participation and consultation processes, including the environmental area, be suspended, while the citizens who stay at home are asked, thus limiting their important participation. The need to stay in social isolation carries with you a great deal of anxiety, particularly when it comes to whether it will be possible to pay the accounts at the end of the month when there are situations of unemployment or wage reduction. It is therefore necessary to ensure speedy and effective communication with Social Security and, therefore, the Greens believe that strengthening the direct line of Social Security is essential for citizens to remain informed about their situation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Every day, the news shows homes in dramatic situations, with users and employees in a daily struggle to save lives. It is therefore necessary to provide these spaces with all the personal protective material and to ensure all the information and plans for these spaces to be reorganized in order to protect the most vulnerable.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u127	For the next speech, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u128	Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is necessary to avoid the transformation of a pandemic crisis into a major economic and social disaster, which exacerbates inequalities, poverty and suffering. For that, first of all, we need to protect the job. We look at Italy and Spain. We need to prohibit redundancies in profit companies, in companies that are being supported by the State and in companies of sectors essential to the economy. How is it possible that Galp, who has already fired precarious workers, has scheduled for this month an assembly to distribute about 300 million dividends by its shareholders? Is it acceptable for TAP to benefit from public support for job protection after it has ruled out more than 100 precarious workers? Is it acceptable that the Lisbon Port Patrons are forcing the dismissal of half of the Lisbon Port summerers that are essential for the operation of the port and for the fulfilment of fundamental services? This dismissal is an offence to law, public security and supply, which is already at risk. Secondly, we need to defend who is working. In the homes, in urban waste, in supermarkets, in transport, in ports, in hospitals it is necessary to guarantee these workers protective equipment and a risk allowance. The risk groups should be exempted from work and the workers covered by PREVPAP ( Special Regularisation Programme for Pre-Care Links in Public Administration ) who are awaiting decision must be established. Thirdly, we need to extend our support to those at home. Support for families should continue to exist on Easter holidays and should also be extended to informal caregivers, who are at home taking care of, for example, the elderly. Fourthly, we need to strengthen income replacement mechanisms by extending them to micro-enterprise managers, correcting the support that exists for green receipts, which cannot have a maximum value lower than the poverty threshold, which cannot exclude people who are in the first year of exemption and who cannot leave out those who have intermittent and shorter careers. It is also necessary to facilitate access to unemployment benefit and to unemployment benefit for self-employed persons, because there are many deficiencies that are not in a position to meet the deadline for access to social protection and which have already been unemployed or out of activity. We need special protection for dealers, domestic workers, artisans, people who have lived from biscuits and who no longer have them. Fifthly, we need to ensure that access to first-needed goods is not interrupted for people who have lost their income: water, light and communications. Access to these goods must be guaranteed. Finally, in sixth place, we need to look at the particularly unprotected groups, and of course I am talking about the homeless citizens, those who cannot stay at home because they have no home where to stay. We need, yes, to demand hotels, to require equipment to respond to these populations, we need to strengthen protection mechanisms and we need to look also at the question of drug users and those who need access, for example, to methadone. There are therefore many fair measures. The Left Block brings dozens of measures to this Parliament. We will vote in favour of most of the measures put forward by other parties as we sincerely hope that the other parties will do the same with the measures we are presenting today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u129	Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This state of emergency is then being used as a firewall for layoffs. This is something that we must deal with legislatively and we must also be greatly concerned. I would like to point out that there will be insufficient thousands of legislative initiatives concerning formal workers and with contract if these legislative initiatives do not take account of those who are in an informal situation. Informal workers do not cease to be workers, just as precarious workers do not cease to be highly useful to the whole financial and economic system. I would also like to point out that it is necessary to support the elderly, invest in homes and fight this pandemic, but that is also insufficient if we do not take all the homes into account without targeting.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u131	Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In three minutes I would like to talk about three subjects. Firstly, I would like to say that the Government should have gone further in strengthening workers' rights, and the NAP has presented a number of initiatives aimed at providing greater protection for professionals and their families, in particular by providing some financial support. We therefore propose amendments to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, in particular in strengthening financial support for self-employed persons, in extending exceptional support to families, ensuring that the professional does not lose the right to such support when the other parent is on a telework basis and in ensuring the exemption from work to those persons whose role is not compatible with this scheme but who are in risk groups. In addition, we also propose the creation of a non-interest credit line for household aggregates with dependents to attend private, cooperative and social and solidarity institutions that have had significant breaks in their income, while we propose that the collection of monthly fees by these establishments can only be carried out when there is guarantee of distance learning mechanisms and when learning is guaranteed. Secondly, we would like to bring here the issue of children and young people at risk who, because they have been victims of neglect, violence, abuse and/or abuse, have an increased need for protection here. The basic human resource needs in the work developed at child and youth reception centres are not at present, but at present, due also to the implementation of telework measures, and well, the visits of technicians to the homes of these children and young people have been very reduced or non-existent, which clearly increases the vulnerability of about 60 000 minors signalled. In fact, telephone or video calls in these cases do not guarantee the absence of danger and also in the context of residential reception there are more associated risks. Therefore, the NAP considers it essential to strengthen a number of aspects with regard to the protection of children in children's homes or signalled by child and youth protection committees. In conclusion, I would like to thank all those who are in the front line in the fight against this disease. These professionals in various sectors are fundamental, are exposed to certain risks and therefore it is necessary to guarantee them PPE(individual protection equipment), and we also believe that they should be allocated a remuneration supplement of about 20 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u133	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: it is essential at this time that we be able, each of the parliamentary groups, to prioritize what is indeed more relevant for parliamentary performance that can never be replaced by the action of a government in such a situation. So the option of the CDS was to make fewer proposals but to make very concrete proposals on what we think is important. It is consensual that the elderly are probably the population with the greatest risk of contracting the virus, in addition to those with diseases prior to this pandemic. What is happening on the ground in terms of the protection of the elderly should therefore be a priority for this Parliament. In this context, there are those who want to make political-ideological readings, doctrinal readings about what is going on, but if there is something that we can clearly perceive in the response that is given to the elderly, it is that if the elderly were, at this time, dependent on the State, of course, much, but even much, less protected than they are. Therefore, it is essential that the State has the humility to realize that those who are protecting the elderly in the field are, in the overwhelming majority of cases, IPSS and the authorities and it is for the IPSS and for the authorities who have to direct our support. Last week, we did so with the authorities, but the state has failed, and has failed a lot, in support of the IPSS. Not only does it fail to deal with COVID as it has failed, cryingly, on Monday when it published the portal of social security cooperation and sharing agreements with the IPSS. Increasing the share of social security at the moment in less than the amount that each of the IPSS represents the payment effort of what is exclusively related to the increase in the national minimum wage, knowing that, in the overwhelming majority of these IPSSs, the national minimum wage has a brutal impact because the staff costs are the fundamental cost of these institutions, is zero sensitivity at a very relevant time. For this reason, the CDS presents a draft resolution that has as its first priority to revise these cooperation agreements in an amount that at least covers increased staff costs and inflation update. It is no benefit, it is to allow IPSSs to deal with a situation of greater difficulty that at least have the same conditions that they had last year to deal with this reality. It does not help if we do not realize that, in the face of misfortunes like the one that happened at the home of the Mercy of Aveiro or how the extreme situation currently exists in the Luiz Bernardo de Almeida Foundation, in Vale de Cambra, in which one fights to save the life of each elderly person, if there is no personal protective equipment, if there is no test in good time and if there is not from the State the recognition of the importance of subsidiarity and the role of the IPSS in protecting the life of our elderly people, we are not doing our obligation. And what we propose is exactly that we do our obligation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u135	The next intervention is Mr André Ventura. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The initiatives that bring us here today, above all, show a major failure, i.e. those who for months, for years, have contributed more to the social state in Portugal — small entrepreneurs and workers, who now see their suspended help in the Passover, as if the virus and the crisis were on vacation at this time. But these initiatives also forget the homes — those who now deserve our first attention — where people die every day. Let us forget that we should support those who once supported us. This is the truth of the measures presented here! Those thousands who have contributed to intermittent jobs and those who are in the first year of activity and who are now suddenly out of the support that the Government is granting have also been forgotten. It is ironic that we have so much money for those who have never done anything, that we have so much money to distribute for all and that the State now turns its back, closes its eyes and says "do not come to the door" to those who have been supporting us with their taxes. The cut-off of allowances for those working in the Easter and the cut-off of support for self-employed workers in the past year and in intermittent show more an infamy of this House in relation to those who work and pay taxes. It's more than that, we're already used to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u137	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u138	I will finish, Mr. President. Those who do nothing will once again have the hands of the State and those who have been supporting the State will once again have the eyes of the State itself closed. More of the same, the same of the usual!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u139	The next intervention is the Socialist Party. Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we all know, we live exceptional times that involve a great national mobilization to defeat a fierce and invisible enemy. The country has responded in a remarkable way and it is up to us to work to find the best solutions that right now guarantee a true tunnel of protection for families, workers, companies and social institutions. We must safeguard public health but also the health of the economy and incomes and, over these weeks, we have sought to do so with determination and a spirit of great inter-party dialogue. It has already been approved by the Government 113 diplomas in 37 days, responding to the many dimensions of this crisis and offering emergency solutions that ensure the functioning of the country and prevent its social and labor collapse until the restriction measures can be lifted. Today, in this particular point of our agenda, we have 42 projects for discussion and the 3 minutes I have do not, of course, allow me to deepen each one of them. But the generality of these projects corresponds to a genuine concern to propose solutions, which the PS records, and we have presented our own proposals for circumscribed but significant amendment, such as the equalization of the nursing homes registered in social security for the purpose of support. With regard to the overall nature of the projects, we believe that at this time they should not overlap or collide with the crisis response command established by the Government, which is not at this time party A or Party B, is the Government of a unitary response to the emergency that our nation faces. We know that this crisis, being global, does not affect everyone equally: it does not symmetrically affect rich countries and poor countries and, within countries, it does not also affect those who have the most and those who have the least. The way we have all responded to this crisis demonstrates the re-evaluation of the role of the State, with less competition and more cohesion, making it clear that a problem of one is the problem of all and that, as a society, we do not accept to leave anyone behind. And that is what we have done in different dimensions: more than 115 000 workers are covered by financial support for parents who have to stay at home with their children; subsidies corresponding to l00 % of remuneration during the 14 days of prophylactic isolation; obligations under the telework scheme; support for essential service workers; measures to support self-employed workers; extraordinary extension of social benefits; layoff scheme with guarantee of two-thirds of remuneration; support for IPSS, maintaining cooperation protocols; support for partners; exceptional strengthening of the conditions of the Act (Working Conditions Authority); payment moratoriums for businesses and individuals, among many other measures. All these measures involve a very significant financial effort on the part of the State and we must ensure that we ensure an adequate but gradual response to the needs and unforeseen events that arise in this period, for which European solidarity must also be called. It is with this determination that we will continue to work, ensuring a fair distribution of the costs of this crisis and safeguarding the living conditions of the Portuguese, with the conviction that we will not take a step less than what is necessary, fair and balanced. We'll make it together! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u141	You have the floor for one speech, Mr Adam Silva, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese live times of unrest, fear, distress, time of pandemic and state of emergency. The Portuguese, all Portuguese, look at us, ladies and gentlemen, and demand that we do our job well, that we accompany and monitor the action of the Government, that we draw up certain laws to mitigate and, if possible, solve the amazing challenges that come into our daily lives — prudent, balanced, balanced laws that are sober and socially effective instruments, laws that are efficient and consistent. Today, in a little more than an hour and a half, the Assembly of the Republic will debate a hundred — I repeat, a hundred! — draft laws and draft resolutions in a series of subjects and matters, where everything is promised to everyone and in all circumstances. The Portuguese want consistent answers and the honourable Members offer them dozens and dozens of draft resolutions. The Portuguese want truth and the Members answer them with unconstitutional bills. The Portuguese want a weighted Parliament and the Members give them legislative chaos. An absurd! A disatin!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u143	Because of the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u144	at this dramatic time in which we live, the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party will continue jointly to make its best contribution so that the proposed laws which the Government brings to Parliament are more appropriate to the circumstances, will continue to announce to the Portuguese and the Government constructive proposals for subsequent legislation, will present, with moderation, prudence and balance, parliamentary initiatives, doing our best to help the Portuguese in this time of attributions, will want to debate legislative initiatives of the other parliamentary groups, of course, but when they are contained in the number and effective solutions. However, the PSD Parliamentary Group refuses to contribute to this unbearable lack of common sense, in which legislation has become a folklore and noise exercise. Therefore, Mr President, the PSD Parliamentary Group will vote against all bills and resolutions regardless of their content.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u145	That's responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u146	More: the PSD Parliamentary Group refuses to intervene in the following items of the agenda. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u147	We now move on to the third item on the agenda, the discussion of which had been deferred, which consists in the assessment of Decrees-Laws Nos 10 - D / 2020 of 23 March, which establishes exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the disease epidemic COVID-19 related to the electronic communications sector [ Parliamentary assessment No 8 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 10 -A / 2020, of 13 March, establishing exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of the new coronavirus COVID-19 [ Parliamentary assessment No 9 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) and 10 - J / 2020, of 26 March, establishing exceptional measures for the protection of the credits of families, companies, private institutions of social solidarity and other entities of the social economy, as well as a special system of State personal guarantees, within the framework of the COVID-19 disease pandemic [ Parliamentary assessment No 10 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) ]. To begin the debate, Mr João Oliveira of the CFP has the speech of Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group has been presenting legislative initiatives over the past few weeks that respond to immediate and urgent problems that thousands of Portuguese are currently feeling, in particular workers, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, unemployed and more vulnerable families. We have presented these legislative initiatives with the urgency of the answer that needs to be guaranteed. We regret that last week a majority of parties in the Assembly of the Republic, including the PSD, postponed the agenda that would respond to these urgent problems. If last week's agenda had not been postponed, we would not have had the number of initiatives to discuss today, which is the responsibility of the PSD, and many of the urgent problems would have already been answered. We are now aware that the PSD has taken this option to force the postponement of last week's agenda because, in fact, it did not want any of the problems to be answered, as was demonstrated in Mr Adam Silva's speech. [[PCP and PEV applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP does not lack its capacity for initiative and responsibility to respond to all these problems, in particular through the solutions we bring to this Parliamentary assessment, but also to other initiatives that are under discussion. We want to respond to the problems of workers, parents and mothers who need to provide assistance to their children, the workers of essential services who currently work in health, in the forces and security services, in civil protection, in the homes and day centres to respond to the elderly, the drivers who transport the goods they need, the workers of the commercial distribution that guarantee access to these essential goods, of the so many and so many workers who guarantee the functioning of our collective life. They all need not only a response but also protection and support for their living conditions, and we naturally include here all those who, being in a particularly vulnerable situation, now need to see their rights defended. We therefore propose: the suspension of redundancies; the invalidity of acts that force and impose infringement of workers' rights; concrete measures to protect and support the workers of essential services, in particular with a 20 % risk supplement of their remuneration and also with the conversion of future contracts that are now being made to strengthen public services into endless contracts, because public services need them after the end of the pandemic. Mrs. Members, we also propose solutions to respond to workers who are in a situation of child assistance, with the strengthening of the protection regime that is already foreseen; solutions for workers with precarious unemployment ties, particularly taxi workers, domestic workers and so many others who are in a particularly vulnerable and need such support; solutions for temporary workers, who have already been victims of dismissal and who need that support to be guaranteed; solutions for lawyers and applicants, who still have no answer to the problem of paying fees to the Order of Lawyers and to the Safety Board, as well as to the lack of social support; solutions for the generality of self-employed workers, for whom we propose not only measures to strengthen social protection but also wider access. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the parliamentary assessment we have presented on electronic communications. The protection of communications, essential services and emergency service cannot mean the discretion of operators, particularly with the limitation of content, and therefore we propose the repeal of an article and concrete solutions to strengthen the guarantee of control of measures which may be decreed in this regard. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u149	Also on this point, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are many people who are paying for this crisis with unemployment, with poverty, with reduced wages, with a life that becomes more difficult every day. These people are desperate for support, for an answer and for a solution and I ask Mr PSD's Member to tell all these people to whom the answer has to come today that they will not have an answer because the PSD refused to analyze and discuss the projects that were their responsibility to analyze and discuss at this time. I would ask the PSD Member and his bench to tell people who have refused to discuss measures to discipline sectors that are abusing the fragility of families and businesses and who explain why they have refused to take measures that want to discipline the attitude of banks. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are banks that are refusing credit moratoriums on disabled people — they will say-CL - if they find this very or very serious - there are banks that are refusing moratoriums on small and medium-sized enterprises, which are pushed into user loans. In other words, not only do banks not perform their economic support functions as they are taking advantage of the fragile situation and worsening the conditions of businesses and families. Our duty, as Members, as legislators, is to prevent this from happening, beginning with changing the rules of the decree-law on bank moratoriums. According to this decree, the bank—and heed this, Mrs. Members — it will be the only sector to be able to charge interest due to suspension of credit benefits. by capitalising the interest on outstanding benefits, banks will be able to charge interest on interest on companies and families that are already in difficulty and apparently the Assembly of the Republic will allow this to continue to exist. I'm asking the ladies. Members — and I ask everyone, because the PS has not so far supported these measures — if they think that banks can win with the crisis, charging interest on people and businesses in difficulty. in the same way, I wonder if you guys are. Members think it is fair to allow banks to cover spreads of up to 1, 75 %, more management committees when they are going to seek money from the ECB ( European Central Bank ) at negative rates. The ECB pays the bank to borrow and these credits are guaranteed by the State, i.e. the bank is doing a State-guarantee business and will still profit from it. I wonder if they think this can happen. Mrs. Members, the bank has been saved with taxpayers' money and it is time to charge the banks the answer that the economy needs right now. The proposals presented by the Bloc simply aim to correct injustices and call the bank on its responsibility. Several party leaders have already talked about the responsibility of the banks. The President of the Republic has already talked about the responsibility of the banks. Mr Rui Rio spoke several times about the responsibility of the banks. I think it is regrettable that the PSD is irresponsible and refuses to vote on these proposals, which do exactly what it has defended for days in the rostrum, which the political leaders have come to defend publicly and that all people consider to be important. We live in times when everyone speaks of the need for great consensus, of large majority to defend the country. It remains to be seen whether these consensus and the majority remain so firm when they knock at the door of great economic and financial interests. These are the decisions we're going to make today. [[Congratulations from BE and the Member of Parliament not inscribed Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u151	It is Mrs Inês de Sousa Real's turn to make an intervention. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I cannot fail to comment and hurt the statements of the PSD, because it seems to us that it has two sides, one inside this Chamber and one within it for public opinion. He has a face when he says that he is very concerned about people's rights and that it is a shame to vote on some measures which, in some way, may call into question the rights of Portuguese people, particularly within the bank, but then he votes against the measures that aim precisely to tackle these situations and which are of the most basic justice. If the PSD wants to follow the path of relinquishing its democratic responsibility to contribute to solutions to overcome this crisis, the remaining political forces are precisely in its right rather than legitimately not to do so. And more: we must not forget that this crisis has many repercussions and that one of its dimensions is democratic. in this sense, we cannot vacillate and it is up to us, elected and elected, to safeguard that this House fulfils its role, whether it is supervisory or, more importantly, participatory. None of us, by bringing these proposals, resigned from doing so. However, the honourable Members. Members who have come to argue that they are more or that they are excessive proposals and are entitled not to vote are the same Members who, at the Leaders' Conference, have argued that the proposals should not be voted on and should be postponed. If these proposals had been discussed and debated last week, we would not have had this number of proposals today and these situations could have been completed. [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] For the NAP, as well as for some political forces in this Chamber, there are concerns that are fundamental, concerns about people's rights, the social protection of those who are in a situation of greater precariousness, with people who are not covered by these proposals of law, at the level of labour rights or the social economy itself. We must not forget that the social economy has replaced the State so many and so many times, precisely in the fundamental responses in sectors of support for homeless people, people with additive consumption, older people and also in social areas such as support for victims of domestic violence, among so many others that we could say. That is precisely why you want to vote and choose which side you want to put. It is not on the people's side, it is not on the side of concerns, it is on the side of political propaganda and what is most beautiful in newspaper headlines. The NAP brings some proposals and will also accompany the concerns with the workers who, for example, the CFP brings with it a proposal for parliamentary assessment. In fact, it is necessary to propose strengthening exceptional support for the family, strengthening extraordinary support for self-employed in the event of a reduction in their economic activity, dispensation of the service of workers whose function is not compatible, for example, with telework. We must not forget that the elements of a couple, if they are both at home, one in telework and the other in a family support situation, cannot accumulate benefits. Who will be able to care for a child and work at the same time? It is indeed a complex situation that requires answers from all of us in good time. We also have proposals to strengthen proximity policies for elderly people, contingency plans to ensure the provision of food and care for pet animals themselves, as well as responses and means for victims of domestic violence or the housing of homeless people. In fact, none of this is important for some political forces, but for us it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u153	Mrs. Member, the Bureau was distracted, but you're gonna have to finish, if you please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u154	I conclude now, Mr President. I'm sorry. As I said, we also defend the ban on the distribution of dividends in a completely unfair way when workers are dismissed at the same time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u155	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u156	Obviously, we will not only follow these initiatives but also continue to do our part.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u157	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Well, that the PSD has no contribution to combat this collective threat, we are not surprised. We are surprised that the PSD, in addition to not contributing to the discussion, still formulates valuable judgements on the political forces that wanted to make contributions. I heard Mr Rui Rio say in an interview that it was unfair that micro- and small entrepreneurs who were at the same time workers did not benefit from the support. Indeed, the Greens have a proposal to extend these support to micro and small entrepreneurs who are both workers. The PSD will not vote in favour of this proposal. You don't get it! [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] With regard to parliamentary assessments, and starting with the matter of Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, I must say that, in view of what we have been witnessing with regard to the behaviour of many employers, who continue to take advantage of the situation to make the table of the rights of those who work, it is clear to everyone that the measures contained in this Decree-Law are far from necessary to respond to the essential and to safeguard the rights of workers, even though we recognize the opportunity and justice of many of the measures of this legal diploma, which we now appreciate. It was, in fact, because we considered that the measures of this decree were insufficient that we presented a number of legislative initiatives which are also under discussion today. As for the parliamentary assessment of Decree-Law No 10 - D / 2020, which affects the electronic communications sector, I want to leave two notes. The first is to say that the authorisations granted by this diploma to telecommunications operators are not limited in time and therefore the scheme is required to have an express and clear deadline. But we must also prevent the law of the jungle from reigning in this matter, which means that it is necessary to rely on the reasons for taking such measures by operators, thereby preventing more than predictable abuses. The second note has to do with the imperative need to ensure that there will be no interruption of the provision of electronic communications services on the initiative of operators, especially when we live a period when compulsory telework is installed and begins to be the rule in cases where it is applicable. With regard to Parliament's assessment of Decree-Law No 10 - J / 2020, which refers to exceptional measures for the protection of credits to families, businesses and other entities, Greens also consider it essential to amend the diploma in order to prevent the abuse of banks against the rights of bank customers. The same is said of the need to ensure, from a legal point of view, that banks allow access to credit lines to all companies that meet their requirements. This is, moreover, the only way to safeguard the survival of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and freedom from discretionary power that banks continue to have and that they continue to use, even in periods like what we live. Moreover, it is not necessary to mention the importance that micro and small businesses continue to represent for our economy, despite the suffocation they continue to go through. So if these companies meet the legally established requirements and criteria...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u159	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u160	I'll finish. If they meet the established criteria, they must have access to credit lines, whether banks want or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u161	The next intervention is the PSD, so you have the floor of Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u162	After all, PSD will always intervene!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to correct what Mr. João Oliveira said. This is point three, Mr President. The state of public calamity that our country has experienced has led us to a state of emergency. It is a worrisome, human-disaggravating, social-disaggravating and economic-disaggravating situation. We live a time that requires of all, political and non-political, concerted action for a common goal: to win the pandemic. We live at a time when everyone, particularly politicians, is required to have a responsible attitude, a balance in the search for the best solutions to meet the many needs felt by families and businesses. That is what the PSD has done, but that is not what we see today in the context of the discussion of these three parliamentary assessments. In general, what the parliamentary groups want with these parliamentary opinions is to bring back the debate on measures which were rejected here in the Assembly of the Republic about two weeks ago. On the other hand, proposals have been put forward which already include measures taken by the Government. It is clear that during this debate there have been enormous and complex proposals for amendment to these legislative initiatives, which clearly does not allow us to have time to analyse them with the care and rigour that are required of the legislator. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u164	These proposals are opening up to be voted on this afternoon. However, they are not merely legislative improvements, but they are complex proposals and with substantive amendments. This is not a serious way to legislate and the PSD does not follow it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u165	How do the others vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u166	Mr. President and Mr. Members: The government has the margin to legislate, it has the margin to decide. So it was determined by the statement of the state of emergency. Since the first hour the PSD has been by your side, collaborating. And 'collaborating' also means monitoring, drawing attention and making contributions. That is why, still this week, the PSD has presented a wide range of proposals and new contributions to support companies. It's just, sirs. Members, 'collaborating' always means — I repeat, always means — working with everyone, with companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u167	Less with PSD, you don't want it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u168	...with the whole society, and also analyze the impact of the measures to be taken. Only by doing this are we able to assure people, seriously, that we can help them and that support reaches them and their families. Therefore, the Government must do more and the PSD has made its contribution so that this can happen. Even to conclude, I must say that the contributions that the PSD has made, contrary to what the Minister for Economic Affairs has said, are not yet in the law. Layoff has to go further and the PSD has already said that the state must pay workers directly and not through reimbursements to companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u169	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u170	Mr. President, I'm really finishing up. Companies have cash difficulties and the state has to help. It is true that it was with the PSD's contribution that support for management partners became legal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u171	Mrs. Deputy, would you like to finish, if you please?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u172	However, the Government must go further in this support, because the step taken is still very short. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u173	The next intervention is the Socialist Party, and Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u174	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Members: We are all aware that the measures that have been implemented by the government in the context of combating the COVID-19 pandemic, in addition to being very demanding, are having and will continue to have a brutal impact on the economy, families and businesses for some time. Today, worldwide, all economic activities, businesses, families are being affected by this pandemic. This economic crisis takes such a dimension that, in order to be reminded of something equal, we may have to go back to the 1930s. It is therefore imperative to preserve companies, to preserve value in our economy. It is important to safeguard jobs, it is important to ensure the financing of the economy, it is important to guarantee incomes, it is important to have social responses. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this challenge is tremendous. Sovereignty agencies have been taking on a response to this challenge. The Government has been adopting a set of temporary and simplified measures aimed at helping businesses and families to cope with the economic impact of this pandemic. These measures consist of reducing or relieving commitments to banks, taxes, social security and workers, with a view to maintaining employment and providing financial means to continue to pay to suppliers and also wages. As has been widely said and practiced, there is a need for constant monitoring of measures and many of them have been undergoing adaptations, developments and enlargements, as we all can see, and are being reviewed periodically to seek to preserve employment security and the maintenance of viable enterprises, as well as to provide the necessary responses at each time to the different socio-professional groups affected. In fact, all these measures must be framed in a global perspective, each one of them, which may be important, but it will be the overall answer that will make the difference. Within the framework of the three parliamentary assessments and the projects adjacent to them, there are measures that will certainly be correct, measures that will already be implemented and measures that will deserve some weight. Certainly, yes, but we understand that the analysis must be global. The Socialist Party has contributed with some amendments to some of these measures and would like to highlight here, in a very gradual and concrete way, our proposal for rescue, reimbursement of PPR (saving-reform plans) without any fiscal penalty. It has also been mentioned, and it seems to us important, that the equalization of love to day-careers for the purposes of the support provided for in social security law; a clear support for the right to information, because we believe it is important that support measures are important.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u175	Mr Fernando Anastácio, you will do the favor of finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u176	I will finish now, Mr President. I would also like to highlight in particular the interpretation that is made of the credits awarded in the housing and also the beneficiaries of the CPAS (Advocacy Box of Lawyers and Applicants). I ended up with a note saying that this is a time of work, it is serious time of evaluation and we have to manage the resources, which are finite,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u177	Thank you, sir. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u178	...in a safe and balanced way, to have equity in the solutions we will find. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u179	The next intervention is by Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: The Left Block intends to present an initiative to discuss the bank. I would say that the discussion of the bank in this House makes sense in an exceptional time, at a different time, at a time when it is really necessary to ask the bank for responsibilities in order to help businesses and families and that the credit lines that were created can reach them in time. But we must do this with responsibility, without populism. The fact is that the Left Block, in the initiative that brings to the debate in Parliament, is a huge ideological prejudice. It is not that we are no longer accustomed to this speech and to this narrative, but on this initiative the Left Block makes a set of complaints and insinuations, one of them even brought by Mrs Mariana Mortágua, which has to do with the fact that several banks are preventing the holders of credit subsidies for disabled citizens from accessing the moratoriums that are approved and in force. The honourable Member asked: "Is this serious or is it not serious? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It's serious, I'm sure it's serious. But if it is serious it is expected that the Left Block has made its complaints to the regulator, the authority, which is the Banco de Portugal. Therefore, we expect you to have done so on the basis of specific cases and not in insinuations. The CDS has a concern — and still yesterday has made a request in Parliament for the five largest banks to be heard here, as well as the Governor of the Banco de Portugal — with the credit lines that the Government has created and to know whether they are or not sufficient; we have the concern to know whether the bank will apply a minimum spread of these loans; we have the concern to know whether, in addition to the spread, there will be another kind of commission; and, as I said here, we want to know whether this money will be agile and will quickly reach businesses and families, as we want to see what other financing solutions the bank has already announced that it has created precisely to help this crisis situation. Yesterday, I read carefully this Left Block initiative — an initiative that promises everyone, that they want to finance everything and everyone, without criteria and without responsibility — and I began to think about what would be a bank managed by the Left Block: it would be such a bank that would give everyone credit, that would renegotiate, as proposed in your initiative, existing contracts;... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ...well, it would be a bank that would probably be insolvent in a quarter and, after that insolvency, there would be thousands of workers in that same bank who would be unemployed. This is the policy of the Left Block. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u181	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u182	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The CDS believes that the bank must play a responsible role here, a serious role and it is important that it be taken and that it is required of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u183	The next intervention is Mr André Ventura. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In our assessment of Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, essential workers are identified. These essential workers are precisely those who are in the front line of this struggle and so far remain outside the core of the universe for the allocation of the risk allowance. It is regrettable that those who risk their lives every day, their health, being on the front line — security forces, medical personnel, collecting personnel, transport, supply and many others — that the Government has been able to identify in this same decree as essential workers, but denies them protection, as the whole country sees. They run, every day, a huge risk to their lives. More: of the initiatives that came here today, if there were some important ones would be those related to protective equipment. And yes, the draft resolutions were also important, because they would lead to the government being obliged to give equipment to those men who protect us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u185	And women, right? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u186	... defend our health, our safety and are in the front line against this pandemic. It is at least costly to see one thing on one side of the border and the other something completely different, in relation to our health professionals, police, guards...! It couldn't be worse! But more: the government has also identified, and well, the suspension of the acts of justice—delicts and deadlines. He did well, but forgot to take care of the rest. Justice is standing and crowded today, without electronic equipment having been distributed that would allow it to continue to operate. I shall conclude by saying that the end of justice is never of interest to anyone and, therefore, if there are great ones here, they are those who will allow our justice to fail one day, in addition to the prisoners being released.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u187	For a second intervention, Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has also brought to this debate, as proposals for amendment to the decree of the Government, the extension of the provision of meals in schools to children who form part of the school social action step B and also the possibility of access to schools of reception by the children of the employees of the homes and other institutions and equipment of support to the elderly, who at present have to be considered for all purposes as essential service workers. We have brought here this set of proposals, which include the proposals I mentioned in my first speech and which I have now added, with the notion that they must be guaranteed without overburdening social security. We therefore propose that its funding be secured in the State budget in order to maintain the financial sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u189	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u190	In conclusion, Mr President, I would just like to leave a very brief note on an objection which was put recently by the PSD and which, I believe, deserves consideration. It is obvious that, in urgent measures that need to be taken, it is necessary to ensure compliance with the Constitution, including the norm-work rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u191	Mr President, you have far exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u192	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u193	As it was possible in 2017 to find these solutions to fire victims without failing to respect the norm-work and compliance with the constitutional rule, this is also possible in this circumstance and it should not be with that argument that one should fail to respond to the needs of workers and the people. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u194	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has requested to register for intervention on this point. To that end, Mr Duarte Cordeiro, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country lives today at an absolutely exceptional time. The Government has worked to minimize the impact of the pandemic on the lives of Portuguese and the legislative process has sought to safeguard the many dimensions in which it is necessary to act. from the protection of the health of Portuguese to the protection of jobs, from the protection of housing — whether credit to housing or from the protection of leases — to the safeguarding of the country's incomes and business capacity, we did not lower the guard in the defense of the national economy before an unpredictable event that affected all citizens and all the dimensions of our lives. The legislation has been dynamic, seeking to meet the needs that will emerge from this crisis. Recently, redundancies have been banned for companies that use simplified layoffs, social support for self-employed workers has been strengthened and some management partners have become included in the protection of income loss. These and many other initiatives show that we are continuously assessing the impact of the measures we have taken and that we have not closed the door to the improvements that are necessary for us all to overcome one of the most complex periods that collective life has faced in recent decades. Without prejudice to the measures already adopted by the Government — strengthening the protection of the National Health Service, supporting business treasury and maintaining jobs, housing protection, the Government is monitoring the evolution of economic activity in permanence and working on strengthening business support and will continue to assess the need for further measures to support businesses in different sectors of activity. We cannot fail, at a time of extreme complexity, to make a careful assessment of the steps we are taking and at no time weaken the country's resistance capacity. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank the Assembly of the Republic. The need to establish effective responses to this pandemic allowed a strengthened spirit of community and interdependence, which is not limited to businesses, schools, public institutions, but also to political life. And the Government would like to thank the Assembly of the Republic for the way it has allowed the Government to schedule its proposals and approve them quickly, but also for the political contributions that the various parliamentary groups have made to not only present their ideas about this moment we are living in, but also strengthen the responses we have found from the Government's point of view. in this particular debate, the assessment we are having, I would like to point out that the Government has taken a good look at some of the subjects that have been presented, namely the clarification on who is covered by the moratorium on bank credits or even the duty of information, both presented by the Left Block, or in the matters still mentioned recently by Mr João Oliveira, the CFP, regarding the extension of school meals to step B, or even the possibility of the children of the IPSS workers to be able to resort to schools, at the moment when these workers are also in the front of the fight and are part of what we can consider essential services. I therefore want to tell you all that, not only in relation to the subject under discussion but also in relation to the proposals for amendments and draft laws submitted by the political parties on various matters, the Government carefully assesses many of the contributions that have been made. The government is fully committed to overcoming this crisis and for this we need to continue with the spirit we have had: a spirit of community and of mutual assistance which also concerns national political life. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u196	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now begin point 5 of our agenda today, with the appreciation of a broad set of bills, in general, and draft resolutions. To learn: Bill No. 281 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — The extension of the duration of the learning licences; No 282 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Emergency measures to respond to the economic crisis; No 294 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establish extraordinary clauses and mechanisms in public-private road partnerships; point 295 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Define contingency measures for food supply; No 297 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets out the prohibition on the interruption of the provision of certain essential services; No 298 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes an exceptional and temporary system of maximum prices for liquid fuels; No 299 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Response to the situation caused by the outbreak of COVID-19 in the fisheries sector; No 305 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — establishes mechanisms for the protection of micro, small and medium-sized companies ( Second amendment to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March and first amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ) ; No 307 / XIV/1. a ( PAN) — Approves measures to guarantee access to essential services by families; No 312 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthens access and control of the use of the support line for the economy COVID-19; No 317 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Considers the extraordinary review of electricity and natural gas tariffs and the definition of an exceptional regime for regulatory procedures in the electricity and natural gas sectors; No 318 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs exceptional and temporary social protection measures for micro- and small business managers in a business crisis situation and amends the social support scheme for self-employed persons as provided for in Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March; No 320 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amends Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March by strengthening the support given to self-employed and individual entrepreneurs arising from the COVID-19 ; No 323 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Extends support to micro and small business members who are both employees of the company; point 326 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Determines limitations on access to online gaming platforms; No 330 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protects aggregates with high income breaks in access to telecommunications in the context of the pandemic crisis COVID-19; No 331 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protects aggregates with high income breaks in access to essential services in the context of the pandemic crisis of COVID-19 ; and 333 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Safeguarding critical infrastructures, health care units and essential public services, as well as vital economic sectors for the production, supply and supply of goods and services essential to the population and Resolution Projects No 336 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — By setting up support mechanisms for the production of agricultural crops; No 357 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen exceptional measures to support the economy of the Autonomous Regions in order to mitigate the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic ; No 358 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure that maximum price limits of the goods necessary for the prevention and control of the pandemic of COVID-19, including individual protective equipment, biocidal products and medical devices, No 364 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the payment of essential services (water, electricity, natural gas and communications) ; point 366 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government measures to protect fishery professionals who have ceased activity under the COVID pandemic ; and No 372 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends 15 economic and employment support measures to the Government. To begin with this point, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiatives presented by the CFP are concrete responses that are needed by the economy, by the productive sectors, to, in this pandemic context, with all the implications it has had in the country, to defend and strengthen the capacity of response of national production to the needs of the population. The current situation is demonstrating not only the enormous fragility of the country, within the framework of restrictions on mobility, but also the strong need to combat external dependence and, still, the deep and unacceptable inequality, even under the conditions to deal with this crisis, between small and medium-sized farmers or livestock producers and between micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs on the one hand, and economic groups, such as PPPs (public-private partnerships) on the other.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u198	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u199	We therefore propose concrete measures. We therefore propose the adoption of legislation with contingency measures for food supply, which aim to provide the country with the capacity to supply and access to food, increase the production capacity installed and procedures to ensure the distribution and access to food to the population. We also present support mechanisms for small and medium-sized farmers and livestock producers, simplification of procedures in access to CAP aid (common agricultural policy), adoption of measures to support the functioning of agricultural markets, safeguarding the special health and safety standards in force. We are putting forward proposals to create income support for fishing workers, a minimum guaranteed price scheme for fish, in particular with an exceptional nature, from the very first batch sale. We propose support for the conditions of fish disposal, also adapting the conditions of batches and sales posts, and social protection for workers in the sector, especially in situations of activity impediment. We also propose the adoption of exceptional social protection measures for micro and small business members in a situation of business crisis. There are layers and sectors of the population particularly affected by the consequences of the situation in which workers stand out, but also thousands of micro and small enterprises are in crisis and social support measures created by the Government have in many situations proved to be insufficient in the support granted and limited in its scope, as is insufficient the scope of Decree-Law No 12 -A / 2020, which has already been mentioned here, in particular Article 26. o. from there our proposal in this area. Finally, Mrs. Members, the CFP also proposes an exceptional and temporary regime for the suspension of compensation clauses and the replacement of financial balance to road PPPs, as well as the equally temporary and exceptional mechanism for the adaptation of State charges with road PPPs as a payment model by availability, reflecting possible reductions in the revenue of tolls. They cannot be at the mercy of luck or misfortune and others, such as economic and financial groups, in armored protection, above all and no problem. The concessionaires of road PPPs cannot keep their profits unchanged, at the cost of sacrificing public resources delivered by the State as income in these ruinous contracts. Unfortunately enough enough is the virus! [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u200	The next intervention is for the NAP, so I give the floor to Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the coming months, at best, GDP (gross domestic product) in our country will fall by 3, 7 % and 61 % of Portuguese companies forecast a decline in sales by more than 20 %. The micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in Portugal account for about 99 % of Portuguese business fabric, which shows us the crucial role of individual partners and entrepreneurs in the Portuguese economy and alerts us to the need, in this adverse context where they will be heavily affected, to ensure as much support as possible. As regards the management partners, it is necessary to go further and ensure that they are able to benefit from the application of the layoff scheme, whether or not they are employed. This is what the NAP is proposing today, ensuring that non-remunerated partners can make use of the extraordinary support recognised to self-employed people. We also defend the extension of extraordinary support for the reduction of the economic activity of self-employed people, and it is also covered by this support by individual entrepreneurs, professionals who represent a significant proportion of the active population. These have suffered enormous reductions in their incomes, insofar as their professional activities have been suspended, postponed or simply cancelled. In addition, we also propose that extraordinary financial support for the reduction of economic activity, as well as the deferral of the payment of contributions, be applied to professionals who have suffered a reduction of at least 40 % in their average incomes, and not only to those who are in total unemployment, since some of these professionals are able to maintain some activity, but with a great decrease in their income, which justifies the need to provide support in these cases. With regard to this proposal, the PSD, with 79 Members who have to read and analyze proposals, decides to make beer and keep silent, because it has no ideas for the country ; on this proposal, the PSD responds to the Portuguese with the vote against. But today, the NAP also does not forget support for agricultural activity and therefore we bring the debate measures to support the production of agricultural crops, measures that support small producers and local production in biological mode, whose sales are mostly made in proximity markets and in the small retail market, which are now closed, with the creation of incentives to distribution chains for their referral to supermarkets. We do not forget, however, due care for the protection of agricultural workers, to whom equipment that keeps them safe and access to all information on good practices in the sector for the prevention of the infection of COVID-19, through the rules of the Directorate-General for Health. With regard to this proposal, the PSD, with 79 Members to read and analyze proposals, decides to remain silent, because it has no ideas for the country; to this proposal, the PSD responds with the vote against. And because trying to take advantage of the pandemic to profit from these products more than inhumane is criminal, the NAP brings the debate to another initiative that responds to unethical commercial behaviour. We all know that the masks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u202	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u203	... alcohol or disinfectant gel are essential products to protect people from COVID-19. Cases like those of masks that go from 50 cents to 20 € and alcohol that go from 1 € to 30 € cannot occur in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u204	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u205	I will finish, Mr. President. The exceptional and unpredictable situation in our country, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, obliges us to take exceptional measures that bring about an unmeasured price rise and give citizens confidence that the country has enough goods to deal with the needs. With regard to this proposal, the PSD, with 79 Members to read and analyze it, decides to remain silent, because it has no ideas for the country;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u206	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u207	... with regard to this proposal, the PSD decides to vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u208	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members : The impact of this pandemic brings serious challenges and demands unprecedented measures in our country. We need to protect people, we need to protect the Portuguese economic fabric and, therefore, we have so many proposals, in so many areas, from employment to wages, housing, the National Health Service, the protection of those who study, the protection of cultural production. We also have proposals on matters relating to the most basic needs of families. at a time of breakdown of income for so many families and in which so many others are in telework and/or have children at home, domestic consumption suffers a dramatic increase, such as water, energy or telecommunications, and therefore should deserve our careful attention. We remember the DECO's warnings regarding, for example, the inefficient way in which many municipalities are still applying, or not, the social tariff of water, but also the proposals of ANACOM (National Communications Authority) on telecommunications, at a time when access to them is absolutely vital for virtually everyone in our country and also in the world. Therefore, we propose the extension of the social rate of electricity, gas and water to aggregates with income breaks; that the social rate of water in all municipalities be guaranteed with a minimum free consumption to their beneficiaries; the possibility of option for suspension of payment of telecommunications, with payment to benefits in two years; the possibility of transition of aggregates with strong break of income to a free minimum service of telecommunications. But also in the field of transport we have the proposal for free movement, because it responds to the breakdown of family incomes and to those who still have to travel every day, whether for work or to access basic services. And because it is necessary to respond to companies and, in particular, to micro-enterprises, the Left Block also presents proposals in this area, but priorities need to be established. Saving companies also means stopping PPPs. PPPs are an absolutely ruinous model—we have had this discussion several times—and, in the midst of an epidemiological crisis like the one we live in, they come to ask compensation to the State, as the road dealers have requested publicly, after millions of transfers for years, is economically and socially unacceptable. Even more, when we speak of a break that follows exactly the most important recommendation of all at this time: stay at home! The Left Block has, of course, defended the non-payment of any compensation, we have maintained exactly that position in this debate and we note that the Government has been accompanying it publicly. So what we are talking about now is to make sure, near to white, that these unacceptable compensations do not take place. When so many are asked to respond to the greatest crisis we face, they cannot be those who are left out of this effort. The country already pays too much and now it is time to mobilize all resources to deal with the health crisis, respond to the social crisis, protect employment and protect micro and small businesses. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u210	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u211	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is much evidence in the crises — the institution's strength, the strength of convictions, the ability to resist and the fiber of people. In the face of the difficulties, it is revealed those who hesitate, those who take advantage of themselves and those who cannot see beyond the navel or the immediate problem. The diplomas that we are going to vote here today deal with important matters but which, in most cases, focus on the immediate problem in the economy. It is understood that it is, but let me tell you that it is the easiest way. It is easier to treat a symptom that the crisis has exacerbated than to face its underlying reason. It is easier and more urgent to address the immediate need than to prepare for the future. It is easier to think that only the fight against the epidemic deserves priority and emphasis and leave 'the next day' to discuss at another time. But in this as in so many other situations, the easiest way is not the one that takes us further. It is now, when there is still much to do in the fight against the epidemic, that we must begin to prepare the future, not because it is easy, but because it is necessary. This pandemic will not last forever, but some of the changes it has brought about in Portugal and in the world will last forever. The acceleration of the digital economy and the effectiveness of telework and other forms of distant collaboration are just two examples, among many, of things that will not be as they were. These changes could be occasions for Portugal to make progress, but there was a need for someone to rule us. For this government, the best we can aspire to is to win the virus, to return to our vision, resigned and state dependents, as if the world had stayed in it. We don't accept this vision! We want more: to win the coronavirus, certainly without lukewarmness and abuse of the rule of law, but above all to take advantage of the changes that are already taking place to create a Portugal that can finally give hope of a better, freer and more responsible life for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u212	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u213	I shall conclude, Mr President. Today, we are going to vote on these diplomas, but with votes in a more liberal future.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u214	You have the floor, also for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The greatest incubator of the COVID-19 is poverty, and it is exactly an awful, insistent and ancient virus that comes today, once again, to reveal to us that we need to unite and fight it, regardless of the context of greater or lesser emergency. There are some really useful elements here. There is a lot of talk in employees, workers in the workforce, who are holding this, and out there. These individuals, mostly, have very low orders and, normally, in daily life, are not valued. And they are from several areas: domestics, nurses, drivers, etc. This shows us that those who effectively carry the economy and society are not the most valued. These are times similar to those that require us to look at the absolute need to increase the national minimum order.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u216	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u217	One last element is the universalization of difficulties for most families and that will normally affect only the humble ones.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u218	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u219	This universalization is also an element to reflect on the need for greater equality. The best, and most effective, way to fight COVID-19 is to fight for equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u220	The next intervention is the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP. Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS brings here two initiatives. The first is a commitment to the regional structures of the CDS, Madeira and the Azores, in which we defend the suspension of the budgetary balance rules during the pandemic period so that there can be greater availability and financial capacity to support the regional economy. Then we bring a second initiative in which we present 15 measures to support the economy and employment, at a time when we live in an emergency state in the country, but also in which we live an emergency state in families and businesses. These measures range from the deferral of commitments with the State in respect of VAT ( value added tax ) from IRS ( income tax for natural persons) or from IMI ( municipal property tax ) to the elimination of payment by account, special payment by account and additional payment on behalf of IRS and IRC ( income tax for corporate persons) for the year 2020. We also propose that the spread be fixed in the financing of appropriations in which there is a guarantee of the State by a maximum of 1 %. And we also want, of course, to ensure that essential services are provided to domestic consumers in this period so that, if there is no payment, that service cannot be stopped. I'm talking, for example, about the case of light or water. But of the 15 measures we are presenting here, there is one that is absolutely central to the question of layoff. The CDS was the first party to alert the Government to the weaknesses of the proposal it had submitted. The CDS was also the first party to present an alternative proposal to which it was submitted by the Government. The Government has made successive amendments, is amending amendments, and has met the initial proposal of the CDS. One of the most recent amendments was that of the management partners, which could be contemplated and covered by the layoff itself. However, in this regard, we say that we need to go further, since that is not enough. So we also challenge the government to go further. Layoff is a measure that relieves the treasury of companies and must have a temporary character. The Government has proposed that only companies with an abrupt fall of turnover in the order of 40 % may join the layoff, but the CDS believes that this criterion should be reduced for companies with a 20 % fall in turnover — which is already a high breakdown. I am going to give you the following example: a company which, in March, had a bankruptcy between 20 % and 39 %, and which could not join the layoff — 20 to 39 % of a company's bankruptcy is a big one — most likely, in April, it will have an even greater breakdown.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u222	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u223	Mr. President, I will finish. But since this company could not resort to layoff in March, i.e., it could not have this relief of treasury, it could be given whether or not it could not reach even April or May or, then, from there insolvent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u224	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u225	Mr President, I conclude by saying that the support must emerge now and that the measures are already required.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u226	The next speech is by Mr André Ventura, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to layoffs and management partners, we have indeed been running behind the damage. What is established today as a criterion, already after much discussion, is completely impractical and leaves out, according to the associations of the sector, several thousand managers throughout the country. Those who have been tired of paying taxes over the past few years are now completely excluded from these subsidies. But we also have the case of the independent workers to whom they were asked to continue to work, but now they are told that if they stop the activity they lose all support. In other words, they are told that they continue to work, but if they continue, even if they cannot have access to any State support. The truth is there were many who did not stop, who reduced the activity because they had to reduce and now see the doors of this completely closed support. We cannot forget those who look at the crisis and still seek to profit from it. The dealers of motorways, who see the traffic flow reduced massively, want to come to charge and profit from this crisis. Those who have won millions over the past few years now want, as a result of the crisis, that we have paid them more. That, yes, is unacceptable! There is no traffic, just as there is no economy and there is little social life.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u228	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u229	Or we're all together or if some people want to make a profit with this we'll be here to stop them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u230	The next intervention is Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The constraints of this period force many projects to be suspended without it being possible to foresee when they will be recovered or resumed. These projects involve deadlines and commitments which, once exceeded, may mean penalties with significant values in the family economy and will therefore become impossible to comply with. Let us take driving learning licenses as an example. While students are without access to schools, it will be essential to ensure that learning licenses are extended over the period corresponding to their closure, without resulting in costs for the student. That's our proposal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens also do not forget the impact of COVID-19 on companies. At an initial stage, the Government has provided credit lines, subsequently creating extraordinary measures to support, in the words of the Government, the maintenance of jobs and mitigate business crisis situations for companies which have partially or wholly closed their activity or for those who have broken at least 40 % in turnover. In practice, this simplified layoff, which large companies are the first to take advantage of, came to channel difficulties to the workers, reducing their wages and passing charges for social security while enduring this situation. But there are still blank areas that need to be answered. For example, a small hairdresser, with two or three workers, who saw his activity closed, due to COVID-19, may submit a candidature to obtain temporary support to pay to his workers. However, the partner-manager, who also works as a hairdresser and who, in this quality, paid his taxes and contributions, is not covered by this measure, so it remains without any income, and this may be a reason, in the short term, to lead to the closure of the company itself. The micro and small enterprises, which represent the generality of the business fabric in Portugal, many of which belong to the tertiary sector, which was undoubtedly the most affected, from the beginning of small trade, restoration and small services, among many others, were in an extremely difficult situation and in a real suffocation. The Greens Ecological Party proposes to extend the support set out in Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 to members-managers of micro and small enterprises who are simultaneously workers of these companies and who have paid their taxes and contributions in this quality.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u232	The next and last intervention on this point is Mr Hugo Costa, of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current pandemic is the biggest challenge in recent decades for public policies, but also for citizens and institutions. First, it was, and it is, time for responses in the area of health, in which Portugal is seen as an example. But in addition to this particular concern about public health, it is necessary and important to start giving answers in the area of the economy, because surely the social and economic impacts will be very important in the near future and also in the medium term. It is important that the economy does not stop and that the State guarantees consumer protection in terms of quality of services and in relation to abusive commercial practices.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u234	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u235	On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to give a word of encouragement to all sectors of our economy which, with difficulties never experienced, have met the challenges. The Government has sought to provide the necessary and urgent responses to the business sector affected by this crisis. Fear cannot contaminate our economy. Among these measures we note the simplified layoff, which has already been requested by tens of thousands of companies, which makes it possible to guarantee jobs and wages. The support provided by the Government is also available for workers with green receipts, even for those who have had significant decreases in income, as well as for management partners. It is important to support these people and the Government has put forward measures to respond to their difficulties. Companies that have suffered massive losses are also covered by a moratorium on loans, while the possibility of income due to commercial leases benefits from a moratorium. We also stress that the Government has already authorised the European Commission to extend the amount of credit lines, with a State guarantee, to some EUR 13 billion. It is important to place this money in the economy and the banking system has that responsibility. In addition, we stress the important measures to extend the payment period of tax contributions to companies. These have an impact of EUR 9, EUR 2 million in the next quarter, about 17 % of GDP (gross domestic product) in this quarter. It should also be noted that, at the level of Community funds, there is a set of measures related to the acceleration in the payments of incentives. This is the time of the responses and the time of the public authorities to be forced to respond. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group records the good assumptions of many measures presented in this package under discussion, but many of them are already being developed by the Government. The Socialist Party understands the need to respond to the so-called essential public services — water, electricity, gas, communications — in particular in ensuring access and non-interruption of the service, thereby enabling these proposals. Just as we understand consumer protection in the area of electronic communications, which is increasingly essential, we will also be able to make proposals that aim at limiting the online game with a view to protecting the most vulnerable in this period. It's time for responsibility. This is a moment of reply and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is on its way. Of course, this type of support can be extended to other sectors and groups, but all measures must be taken with responsibility and sense of fairness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u236	We have thus concluded this point and now turn to point 6 of our agenda, which consists of the evaluation of the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 265 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Change the television law so as to provide that the public television service ensures stimulating and adequate programming of physical exercise and good nutrition, in case of prolonged social isolation; Bill No. 275 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — suspends payment for accommodation in university residence, while the restrictive measures relating to COVID-19 are determined ; Bill No. 276 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — suspends payment of propines while the restrictive measures relating to COVID-19 are determined ; Bill No. 287 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Exceptional support measures for higher education students; Bill No. 288 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves a set of exceptional and temporary measures to safeguard the rights of workers of the National Scientific and Technological System and of scientific, technical and management work; Bill No. 293 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an emergency social support fund for cultural and artistic fabric; Bill No. 309 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Adequacy of the payment of propines in higher education than the exceptional situation of COVID-19 ; Bill No. 314 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Suspension of payment of housing and residence benefits and university housing during the emergency period of public health; Bill No. 328 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures to respond to the crisis in the cultural sector; Draft Resolution No. 323 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of exceptional measures in higher education and science in the context of the prevention of COVID-19 ; and Draft Resolution No 383 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of extraordinary measures concerning the conclusion of the 2019 / 2020 school year due to the COVID pandemic - 19. The first intervention is for Mrs Beatriz Gomes Dias. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u237	Good afternoon, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The culture sector was one of the first to be affected by the pandemic, but culture did not stop. It is on television, on the radio, on the books; it is on the screens of the phone and the computer, where Portuguese artists have offered their work, demonstrating solidarity for the Portuguese population in isolation. This is a solidarity that contrasts with the lack of support. The questionnaire carried out by CENA-STE (Syndicato dos Trabajos de Spectacles, dos Audiovisual et dos Músicos) shows that 98% of the workers in culture — artists, technicians and others — had cancelled work. of these, 85 % are self-employed. The Left Block presents three fundamental proposals: an emergency programme of EUR 50 million, the equivalent of three months of tickets lost in live shows, cinema and museums; amendments to the Government's decree on cancellation of shows to ensure full payment of activities cancelled or postponed by public entities or with public funding and to cover the gaps consensually indicated, however. in another project, we propose more support to workers in unemployment or without income. These proposals reflect the contributions of the various entities in the sector. We all receive their calls, including the 2000 professional letter from the arts to request that we approve the measures they propose. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u238	Mr Tiago Estevão Martins of the Socialist Party has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The next item is the debate on how we will deal with the third period in our schools. The situation we face is unexpected to all titles and therefore also a challenge to the role of the State. In days, we went from 100 % education to 100 % education at a distance, something that could hardly be thought possible. at this time, it is essential to recognize the great response of schools and institutions of higher education, the dedication to their students and how they were able to adapt and respond to the enormous difficulties felt to carry out this collective effort not to abdicate from our future to respond to the challenges present. To make this discussion requires all humility: the humility of knowing that, when we speak in schools, we speak of families, students, teachers, parents, assistants of educational action; the humility of knowing that we are making this discussion with the uncertainty of a present about which little we can predict and which challenges us to find a new balance and a new stability. We are aware that distance learning has aggravated inequalities. Despite all the efforts made by schools to build educational responses, the truth is that access to the computer, to the Internet, is far from being a universal reality and this central concern that no one is left behind is also guiding our policies. This concern guides the response of school social action, access to meals for students of step A and step B to the reception for children of professionals in readiness and now of the IPSS (Special Institutions of Social Solidarity ), the opening in permanence, and at any time, of the request for scholarships for students of higher education. This is a challenge for our country, as a State that values science, culture and knowledge, which calls me to two final notes in this debate. The first note goes to the clarity of the response to failure situations identified in higher education that, although residual, concern us. No student can cease to have access to his or her education in higher education because of the failure of his or her institution, so the payment of tips must be suspended to all institutions that do not comply with his or her obligation to give distance classes to all students. A final word for culture and for the great concern with our artists that will make us today approve the flexibility of the re-engineering of free entry shows, promoted by public entities, allowing to proceed with payments, as well as the completion of the contracting procedures that are pending. This is a way to protect a larger universe of professionals from the arts and shows and reminds us that Portugal of the future needs, more than ever, education, science and culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u240	The next intervention is by Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presents three initiatives in the field of higher education, science and culture. We defend that, during the time that exceptional and temporary measures to combat epidemic outbreaks are maintained, it is not due to the payment of propines, fees and emoluments in public higher education, and the government makes financial compensation for the institutions. We also propose that the monthly payments of student residences be waived, ensuring the maintenance of social support for school action. Remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that what is happening right now is not teaching at a distance, since the law where it is intended is not complied with: it is not believed, it is not evaluated, it is not registered and it does not guarantee equality between all students. Eliminating the collection of propines, in this context, only exacerbates the injustices that exist. As regards science, the PCP advocates the extension of all scholarship contracts under the Statute of the Research Fellowship ( EBI ), being directly or indirectly funded by the FCT ( Foundation for Science and Technology) or by other public or private entities, for the time the investigator is prevented from developing his work. The CFP also advocates the extension of contracts concluded under Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 and competitions to stimulate scientific employment, scientific research and technological development projects and strategic projects of research units, ensuring the maintenance of funding and of all workers. If there is something that this epidemic outbreak proves is precisely the importance of science and of all areas of knowledge. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in culture, life is at the rate of the word « cancellation », leaving naked the emergency situation that was already in this area and which has no full response to the measures proposed by the Government. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not creating a television festival in which friends will invite their friends to appear in this show that this goes there, leaving the invisible of culture even more invisible and with their life canceled, many paying with extreme difficulty the debts that they have to social security, so many who do not fit in the types, deadlines and conditions of access to existing support so far. Everything that culture doesn't need, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's about treating the friend's little favor, kanga's, extended hand, smooch's, the week's advance. of what we need in culture is dignity and what is needed is an emergency social support fund which includes direct, non-competitive and non-compromising support, which responds to such 98 % of workers in the arts who have been left out of work, so that those who are not at the focus of the lights of the roll, such as technicians, roadies, second-line musicians, figurinists, plastic artists, cenographers and so many others who, in fact, do not have a response to the measures presented today and which are planned by the government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u242	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this point in our agenda, there is a set of projects which, for example, affect the law on television and which, although well-intentioned, come to impose — the word is to impose — editorial criteria for programming which, in any other context, would not be accepted. in this case, these are well-intentioned initiatives, because obviously they ask for content that can even be relevant at this time, but it seems to us that the idea of imposing editorial criteria is one of which should not be applied in this period. From this set of projects, support for cultural agents is also defended. Some point to relevant aspects, also considered by the CDS-PP and that we will make it possible, but others, whose scope extravagant the immediate emergency problem, no, and therefore will not be feasible by us. This block also includes a set of projects on higher education and science, some to exempt the payment of tips and other costs, as well as to eliminate restrictions and deadlines with regard to scientific work. In our understanding, all of this is proposed without strict or fair criteria, because, in fact, there are still distance classes...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u244	It's not possible!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u245	Mrs. Member, these are the possible classes, because no one had a pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u246	It is not the distance education that is provided for in the law!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u247	If, therefore, there is educational service, even if we do not have to do so, why should the tips be suspended? Why will the payment of propines be exempt for all if there are people whose incomes have not changed from time to time the civil servants? And what happens on the other side of the equation and which is not mentioned here? If there is no reason to have propines, there would also be no reason for the same logic to maintain the school social action, the accommodation supplement or the meal supplement.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u248	And do social conditions worsen? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u249	Therefore, it seems to us that these projects have not been properly thought about their consequences and impacts. It also presents a final project, the Left Block, which weaves broad considerations and recommendations on the completion of the academic year, with regard to non-retirement education, replacing to a large extent the Government, in terms of executive decisions, some, even, conditioned to a public health assessment that the Bloc well knows that it is still open and to conclude. in an emergency moment, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is up to the government to govern, not the parties to give in to the temptation to replace what was not given them by vote. But does that mean parties don't have to be in position? They certainly have to be in position! I'm sure you will!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u250	The CDS didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u251	But in addition to spot corrections, what parties have to do is contribute to the design of better solutions through other mechanisms. This is what happened, for example, in the case of the CDS-PP that the Minister of Education called the Education Commission — although unfortunately the parties have preferred it or this rain of initiatives or silence. Otherwise, if we continue to present this rain of initiatives, what we do is inconsequential or myopus, it can generate expectations, which will not be met, and future debt, which is not desired.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u252	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Mariana Silva of the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current situation, with the counseling of social isolation, caused by the need to prevent the disease COVID-19, confines the generality of the citizens to the space of their residence. This creates a rather sudden and significant change in daily habits, leading to greater sedentaryism and a greater trend towards food intake for many people. This is not a short-term situation, however, but a time which we know will be long and still indeterminate today. Many citizens are looking for programmes on the Internet that can help practice physical exercise, suitable for home space, as well as nutritional advice using a range of options that are available. However, not all citizens have the Internet, and on the other hand, the authorities themselves demand that the use of the Internet not be too intensive in order to avoid any conditioning or blocking of services. Thus, the Greens Ecological Party presents a bill that amends the law of television, so that the duty of the public television service to ensure, in cases of social isolation as we currently live, that citizens can be well advised and stimulated to exercise adequate physical exercise and also promote healthy food. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, there is so much worse that is happening on television and for which you are not insurgent. Maybe we should stop having so much news and start having more didactic and practical things for those people who don't have the Internet. Others can continue to remain healthy. Another issue is the need to promote adaptations with regard to the expenditure that the frequency in higher education brings to families and to students. The bills that we present today bear in mind that the students of higher education displaced, who were installed in university homes, returned to their homes to meet the recommended social isolation. Since these students are not enjoying university residences, because of the restrictions during this preventive period of epidemiological infection, the duration of which is still unknown, it does not make sense that they are obliged to pay any amount related to accommodation in university residence, so that payment should be suspended. As should also be suspended, as an immediate step, the payment of propines, while determining the restrictive measures relating to COVID-19, going to the meeting of what is a student claim, which also require the extraordinary reinforcement of higher education scholarships in order to prevent the expected impacts on family incomes at this stage from leading to an increase in school dropout.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u254	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u255	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has decided to suspend the present classes to contain the infection of the virus, and has done well, has decided to support families to stay home with the children, and has done well, and must maintain these measures, as long as necessary, including during the Easter holidays.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u257	Soon, the government will have to decide whether to reopen schools, but that decision does not depend on our willingness to return to normal. Thus, the country must be prepared for a third period of distance teaching. This is an atypical year and it would be a mistake to treat it as if nothing had happened, wanting to reproduce schedules, disciplines and evaluation. We must ensure that everyone has the right to education, including those who do not have computers at home, those who have illiterate parents or those who spend the day caring for family and siblings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u258	That's impossible!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u259	Social inequalities have never had such an influence on learning. That is why the Left Block proposes a model of distance teaching, in the third period, which includes teleschool—because television is the tool that children most have at home—and very simple online platforms that include pedagogical and social monitoring of all families. It is a model that includes a fair assessment, because no student should be held for not having been able to study at home during this tragedy. This is because it is a tragedy that we are living in and the biggest mistake would be to let a temporary tragedy forever mark the right to education for children in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u260	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this speech, I will address the issue of education and culture. Since the new coronavirus is clearly bringing to the country various negative impacts to all sectors of society, it is also true that there is a historically and structurally fragile sector, characterized by widespread precariousness. We are talking about the culture sector that is completely paralyzed from the contingency plans and response to the pandemic that afflicts the world. The culture sector, to which the social communication sector joins, has been the most punished by social isolation measures, because, in the context of the state of emergency declaration, they are not considered essential. In addition, the culture sector is marked by a strong seasonality, being the periods of better climate conditions that give rise to a greater number of events, such as festivals, popular parties, book fairs, among other initiatives that are already being cancelled. There are several voices that are publicly voiced regarding the need for aid measures, through various entities, personalities, cultural associations and social communication. We also know that some of them are already resorting to crowdfunding in an attempt to survive this phase by fulfilling their obligations towards workers or others. This situation attests to the lack of confidence of the sector in the support that will be provided to it. In view of the above, the NAP made a request yesterday for the urgent hearing of the Minister of Culture, in which it is intended to clarify how the Government intends to respond to the pressing needs of the cultural and social sectors. With regard to education, educational and non-presenceal activities may hardly occur so early, so alternatives to face-to-face education will have to be defined, which ensure continuity of learning, accessibility and inclusion in schools and institutions of higher education. The environment we live in has a significant impact on the income of families. For this reason, measures have been taken to suspend the payment of certain benefits as a way to reduce the monthly expenditure of family aggregates. However, in this context, we recognize that the tips represent a significant portion of family income, but also that higher education institutions should continue to perform their duties, and therefore we consider it essential that they be collected only if they ensure distance education on equal terms for all; that they adapt the time limits for payment of tips in higher education according to the evolution of this health crisis; that payments relating to the housing of students in residences and university responses of a public nature are suspended, during the period of validity of the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment measures of CVID-19 and until it is possible to resume the present activities, since in this period no use of this service is possible. These proposals aim to achieve a balance between the services provided and the income of families, trying to reduce the impacts this pandemic has on the lives of students, teachers and their institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u262	You have the floor, for the last intervention at this point, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is essential that we do not separate culture education, just to avoid looking at culture as entertainment, free time occupation and as something that is absolutely disposable. We are talking about an area that is essential for collective memory; an area that, in particular in a pandemic environment, will mediate between today and future generations. Obviously, I will vote in favour of any initiative that aims to strengthen and support all artists and all professionals in the art sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u264	So we finish the sixth point and we enter the seventh and penultimate point of our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of bills (generally) and of the following draft resolutions: Bill No. 224 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Ensure sickness benefit to 100 % for cases of prophylactic isolation due to infectious disease — was generally rejected; Bill No. 236 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter the right to sickness benefit for cases of prophylactic isolation due to infectious disease, proceeds to 6. the amendment to Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February; Bill No. 258 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensures the free SNS 24 Line, and for other services, provided by public entities and companies providing public services, imposes alternatives to value added numbers for the consumer/user; Bill No. 269 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Prevents banking institutions from charging any commission for operations carried out through digital applications or online platforms, while determining or requesting social isolation from COVID-19; Bill No. 280 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Creates a free line of support for the population to promote mental health; Bill No. 283 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures to respond to the pandemic crisis; Bill No. 289 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establish exceptional measures to strengthen the response of the National Health Service in the treatment of patients with COVID-19 ; Bill No. 300 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Suspension of contributions to the case of Advocates and Applicants; Bill No. 301 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensures that screenings are carried out throughout the national territory at COVID-19 as a strategy for the prevention and containment of the disease; Bill No. 302 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Takes protective measures to lawyers and applicants; Bill No. 310 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — adopts protection and support measures for lawyers and applicants; Bill No. 313 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — determines the temporary suspension of shareholder remuneration and the payment of bonuses to administrators; Bill No. 321 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Limits the collection of interest rates and bank fees by credit institutions ( First amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - J / 2020 of 26 March ) ; Draft Resolution No. 276 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — preventive measures necessary for the country to be prepared in the event of epidemics and pandemics; Draft Resolution No. 353 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of an exceptional social protection scheme for lawyers and applicants in the context of the fight against COVID-19; Draft Resolution No 369 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government pursue the adoption of protective measures for persons present in prison establishments; Draft Resolution No 373 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — Immediate payment of State debts to taxpayers, suppliers or partners; Draft Resolution No 374 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — For a tax incentive to pay income; Resolution Project No 375 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — the immediate exemption from the payment of TSU and IRC to public persons; Draft Resolution No 376 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — The immediate exemption from payment of TSU, IRS, VAT and IMI for natural persons; Draft Resolution No 377 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — suspension of taxes and charges on essential services; Draft Resolution No 379 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — The implementation of support and containment centres for patients with COVID-19 in existing infrastructures, as well as the creation of a free line of support for all households of the elderly and health homes to be operated; and Resolution Project No 382 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — By disseminating epidemiological data in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor for a first speech on this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I bring you portraits of a country in times of crisis. Ms. D.a. Fatima is a fragile 76-year-old woman who lived with the only income she received. He stopped receiving the income, but he keeps paying IMI. Its chance is not to be a political party, because these, such as the PS or the PCP, which have a vast real estate, remain exempt from taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u266	It's the IL!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u267	The Liberal Initiative argues that it is fair and urgent to exempt D.a Fatima from IMI payment. Ms Fatima has already said that she has no income, but looks at electricity and sees that she continues to pay 50 % of taxes and taxes at the final price. The Liberal Initiative believes that it is urgent that D.a. Fatima does not pay these taxes and fees during the crisis period in essential services: water, electricity, gas and communications. Ms. D.a. Fatima only had one son, Jorge, which is the light of her eyes. Jorge worked in the local accommodation and also ran out of income. Until the amendment of the law in January 2019 Jorge always discounted for social security; more than 20 years of discounts. But, as it has not been discounted for more than a year, it has been out of the scope of the new measures. I repeat: you have paid more than 20 years, you have paid VAT and IRS all these years, but you have no right to support. It's just that bad luck at Jorge's house doesn't stay here. Palmira, her wife, has been around for years if she can see that social security returns to her 870 euros that you wrongly discounted her in old times. The Liberal Initiative argues that it is urgent for the State to pay immediately the debts it has towards taxpayers and suppliers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u268	Mr President, I am sorry to interrupt the plot, but I would like to ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u269	The plot ended, Mr. President, and in beauty, because it was in the name of all the Fatimas, all the Jorges and all the Palmies of this country that the Liberal Initiative presented its proposals so that the State will no longer be, especially at this difficult time, a State that complicates and honors the lives of people. Thank you very much for your patience, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u270	So what about the Manuels and the Joaquins?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u271	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is essential to protect the most vulnerable, where the elderly population is included. The NAP understands that it is essential to track all professionals who ensure essential services, where the professionals and caregivers of elderly people fit. Only in this way can we ensure that contagion foci are identified in a timely manner, which we can isolate and treat, to prevent the spread of the virus. In Portugal we have 800 000 informal caregivers, who care for their families in a situation of chronic illness, disability and / or dependence, in a condition of fragility or need of other care. Given the particular vulnerability of the caretaker, it is essential that informal caregivers be tracked. It is therefore essential that a hierarchy of priorities in tests and regular and mandatory screening of all health professionals, security and civil protection professionals, all those responsible for the logistics distribution and care in essential goods and services, professionals who perform their activities in homes and residences of the elderly and formal and informal caregivers, as a way to prevent the contact of professionals and caregivers. With regard to this proposal, the PSD, which has 79 Members to read and analyse proposals, decided not to discuss the problems of the most vulnerable. The PSD's contribution to this proposal is to vote against. Another concern we are bringing here today is the situation of lawyers and applicants who, because of their functions, are being faced with enormous losses of income, considering that, in most cases, a total stopover of their activity will occur. As such, and taking into account these losses, we believe that payments should be suspended for all contributions to the Lawyer and Advocates' Safety Box and Order, as well as special payments on behalf of the Advocates. In addition, immediate support should be granted in case of illness and reduction of economic activity as well as protection in parenthood to lawyers and applicants, in the same proportion as it has been established for other independent workers who have to stay at home with their children or who see their activity reduced. All the values confirmed under the system of access to law and the courts, the so-called informal defences, plus the immediate confirmation of all acts pending in this system, must also be paid immediately. With regard to this proposal, the PSD, which has 79 Members to read and analyse proposals, decided not to discuss the problems of lawyers and applicants. The PSD's contribution to solving this problem is to vote against. A third proposal that we bring today is aimed at limiting the collection of interest rates and bank fees by credit institutions. In 10 years, the bank received EUR 25 billion, paid by all taxpayers. In the current context, a solidarity stance was required from the bank with a country that ensured its survival. However, what we have seen, as always, was an unbiased greed at making profits on behalf of those who need the most, even with guarantees from the State or with the ECB ( European Central Bank ) to pay for loans. at this difficult time for the country, it is urgent to demand the collaboration of the bank. If the central block really wants the bank to pay what the country owes, you should vote in favour of the NAP project. What we propose is to prevent the bank from charging interest to persons who claim a moratorium on their claims to housing; to prevent the recovery of interest to companies which are financed by the credit lines guaranteed by the State ; to prevent the collection of commissions by online transfers ; and to prohibit banks which have received public support from paying their managers bonuses in 2020 and 2021. [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u273	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u274	The proposals will be the vote, whether there is any political will to put an end to the abuse and immorality of the bank and to prevent its profit from the COVID-19. With regard to this proposal, the PSD, which has 79 Members to read and analyse proposals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u275	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u276	... decided to remain silent and not discuss the bank's profits. The PSD's contribution to limiting interest rates collection in the current context is to vote against this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u277	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We live at a time when we must mobilize all resources that exist in the country to defend the health of the population — everyone, without exception! No one can want to put himself out of this responsibility. The National Health Service, we know, is fulfilling its role, is on the ground every day, but the private sector is not. The private sector closed hospitals, such as the SAMS or the Health Trofa in Famalicão ; emptied some of its units, as happened with the CUF group; and spent weeks negotiating at what prices, after all, it intended to sell its services to the National Health Service. The Left Block, before this, brings the debate and the vote to a proposal to proceed immediately to the request of the private sector means, already integrating them into the National Health Service, insofar as their professionals, their facilities and equipment are needed. We cannot accept hospitals closed in full epidemic, nor the use of resources that are necessary, so we must respond with the request, because it is the common good and it is the health of everyone who demands it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u279	Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to refer to a phrase given, a testimony: « I owe my life to the National Health Service ». This is the testimony of who recovered from the coronavirus, which I read today in the press and which is the best tribute to the National Health Service, António Arnaut, Mário Soares and who voted for its creation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yesterday we even marked World Health Day and I want to reiterate our deep recognition to all health professionals. This unexpected epidemic crisis puts everyone to the test and, for a global crisis, we need global answers and that is what we also require of the European Union, in which we believe. We recognize the efforts of the Government, the health authorities and, essentially, of all those who have helped to ensure essential services for our people. We also need to highlight the many initiatives, from the scientific community to the many volunteers, in aiding critical situations and the most vulnerable people. The mobilization has been of everyone, both the social public sector and the private sector. Portugal has been recognized for having taken strong and determined measures, of course, and always in compliance with the rule of law. We highlight how our population, which we greet, has responded in a responsible way. Although we can and should hope to be in control of this situation, we must be very careful, as the government has requested. We take advantage to mourn the deaths and send our condolences to the bereaved families. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we appreciate numerous projects from various parliamentary benches, but we must be aware that the measures must be proportionate, progressive and appropriate at the moment, which means that we must always be available to make the adjustments that are considered necessary. I would like to point out that we have examined all the proposals with openness and attention and that we are going to agree to some of them, in particular to the ENP bill that is advancing with the need to guarantee the freeness not only of the SNS 24 Line, which is already free from 13 March, but also of the other services of the entities and companies that provide public services such as TTCs. There are also other initiatives that deserve acceptance and that have been mentioned during this session, in fact, as the bill that amends the law on television and which aims to ensure that programming includes the issue of exercise and good nutrition. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have talked about mental health and we recognize the need for such attention, but I would also like to remind you that we have a telephone line already available for this purpose. I also point out that the law of the state of emergency already includes many of the aspects mentioned in other projects, such as... [[Meanwhile, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u281	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u282	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, the law of the state of emergency already confers, if necessary, on the Minister of Health, the faculty of temporary request of facilities of any kind, including services and health establishments of the private and social sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u283	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u284	I'm done, Mr. President. The Minister, with regard to private hospitals, has already mentioned the need to channel patients with or without COVID-19 and has already indicated that they have prepared the minutes for an agreement. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, regarding the Military Hospital of Belém, referred to in a PCP project, I remember that it is in works, as we know, to meet the need for a support centre to be located there.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u285	Mrs. Deputy, finish up, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u286	I will finish by saying that I am sure that we will continue to work to meet the needs of our populations. Thank you very much, Mr President, and I am sorry. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u287	The next intervention is by Mr João Dias, of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u288	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current situation of the disease COVID-19, which the country and the world face, has confirmed demands that the PCP has long claimed. First of all, we should highlight the attitude and prudentness that the population has assumed and that, associated with the adoption of health measures, they contribute decisively to the prevention and containment of the disease. Of course, there must be a set of measures, in which public health services have a fundamental role, and measures essential to the training of clinical response, with the strengthening of the National Health Service, must be implemented at all levels of care. That is why the CFP brings several proposals that respond to the needs of the population, health professionals and public services. Of course, Mr. President, Mr. Members, these proposals respond to the intense lack of equipment and protective material in the various units of the National Health Service. These protective equipment shall also be provided to the security forces, with civil protection intervention, and to all workers who, by their activity and functions, have extended contact with the public. These professionals, despite their disrespect and disregard for their rights and their demands, committed by successive PS governments, PSD and CDS, continue to assume their functions in a responsible and supportive manner, placing the collective interest in their personal interests and their health. Mr Hortense Martins said that health professionals deserve our recognition. « The essential professionals deserve all our support», it is said. For here is an opportunity, Mrs Deputies, to recognize and support you. The PCP proposes that all these professionals be exempted from proving that the COVID-19 disease is a consequence of their professional activity. There are thousands of workers who continue to perform their duties, who are essential and indispensable and who ensure the maintenance of essential services to our country and people. If the State is responsible for the special duty of protection in relation to all Portuguese, in relation to these professionals, the duty of protection is added. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are proposing to strengthen the National Health Service and its response capacity to treat patients with CVID-19, while not forgetting that the response to other acute and urgent situations is to be ensured. Over the last few decades, Mr. Members, the SNS has lost response capacity, which today would be essential to combat COVID-19, with the closure of hospitals and with the closure, merger and concentration of services and valences. Public hospitals have lost over 4000 beds. These are examples of the dismantling of the Pulido Valente Hospital, which currently integrates the Northern Lisbon Hospital — it was a mistake, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! — or the Military Hospital of Belém, now disabled, which specialized in infectious diseases. At the moment we are living, these resources cannot be wasted and should be mobilized quickly for the care of patients with COVID-19. That's what we propose. We also alert ourselves to the need to intervene in the prevention of fatigue and exhaustion of health professionals, essential professionals, who may be subjected to a tremendous exhaustion. Therefore, priority should be given to anticipation, forecasting and prevention of this happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u289	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u290	I'm done now, Mr. President. We call for the anticipation of solutions, because it will not be at the moment that there are greater difficulties that they will look for. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u291	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Return to a topic that has taken a lot of attention in social communication, with several party leaders making major statements, but which has had little attention in this debate, especially on the part of PS, PSD and CDS. We still don't know how you guys are. Members will vote on the measure submitted by the Left Block which aims to prevent banks from charging interest on interest when granting the moratorium to families or businesses in difficulty. But we have not only the duty to protect families and companies from abusive debt conditions, but also the duty to avoid indebtedness on account of an exceptional situation. And in order to avoid debt, it is necessary to ensure that companies capitalise. This is not the time to distribute profits. This is not the time to pay bonus millionaires to administrators.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u293	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u294	This is the time to protect the economy, it is time to pay wages, it is time to capitalise on companies, it is time to prepare the economy for the future, which will be difficult. If this is true for all companies, it is particularly true for monopolies, which operate in strategic sectors. How can we have Galp lay off precarious workers to hundreds and distribute millionaire profits to their shareholders? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u295	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u296	How can we allow EDP, which does not grant moratoriums or free supply of electricity to whom it needs, to distribute millions to its shareholders? Oh, my God! How can we allow the bank to distribute millions to shareholders at a time when it should be helping the economy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u298	This need must address all parliamentary parties and groups, but I want to address the Rio Rui in particular. Rui Rio said from the speaker's rostrum that he was against the distribution of dividends in the bank. by doing so, he committed himself and committed all his party. I would like to ask, once again, whether Rui Rio is really going to miss his word here in front of the Members and before the country, and will vote against the Block's proposal to ban the distribution of dividends in the bank, precisely what Rui Rio said he wanted to do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u299	Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Banking institutions have abused the fees charged by the provision of banking services. This abuse becomes even more scandalous when it materializes in the context of reducing charges for the banking institution, resulting from the processes of digitizing the services provided. That is, when there is a decrease in operational costs, banks increase customer charges. in these circumstances, it is not at least acceptable for fees to be charged by banking services resulting from the use of digital applications or platforms, and even less during the period during which the exception measures last. This collection is not made by an operation carried out in a multi-bank box and, at a time when citizens are advised not to use these boxes, there should be no collection for the use of alternative means, which contribute to the citizens' responsible compliance with the social isolation that has been determined for public health reasons. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, among the most necessary measures, and where the Government is more aware of the difficulty in freeing itself from the criteria of the right accounts, there is support for people. Social support is conceived more as a support for the economy than for the citizens, who see themselves in such a difficult and uncertain situation as the disease is. The Greens propose that the sickness allowance be strengthened in the first 90 days for a value equivalent to the reference amount allocated to the unemployment benefit, i.e. 65 %, and want to guarantee workers entering prophylactic isolation 100 % of the reference remuneration, avoiding an unfair loss of their income. We recall that the prophylactic isolation does not result from the worker's express will, but rather from an imposition which aims to safeguard public health, the well-being of society in general and, of course, of the worker himself. Also in support of citizens, we want to guarantee the free line SNS 24, not only when the government asks everyone not to use health centres and hospitals and to help the line, but on a permanent basis, because later on we will have to maintain this kind of behavior. It should also be free of charge the line we propose to create support for the population to promote mental health. All the elements reveal that, in the future, allied with COVID-19 and due to various other problems, we will have mental health problems that will be aggravated or revealed. Therefore, in an attempt to prevent and even evaluate future needs, The Greens propose that a telephone line be created, with the intervention of specialized health professionals, at an extended time, not only for a word of comfort, but ensuring an assessment of future needs, so that we are able to prevent and not react. This line should ensure functionality to cover also deaf people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u301	The next intervention is by Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, I would say that there is something that this time should not be the demagogy. I repeat: this time, above all, should not be the time of demagogy. But unfortunately, throughout this afternoon, this House has often set the example of what Parliament should not behave at this time when the country is concerned, is confined, is isolated, giving the idea that it is possible now to promise everything, to change everything and to do everything and something else. It was not, and it is not, as soon as the CDS stood in this debate and we have put forward concrete, focused proposals to resolve issues that have not yet been dealt with. at this point, in particular, we have, for example, the question of liberal professionals, especially lawyers and applicants, who we know are professions that, even in the area of social support, do not often have protection and in this case do not only have it, as they have difficulty in not being able, for example, to suspend their contributions to their supply box, which would be essential, because often these professionals are abandoned in this circumstance. We did the same with regard to the issue of parents, during the Easter school holidays, and in matters of taxation or prophylactic isolation. These are concrete points! To create the idea that it is possible to do everything and that everyone will change from here is, from our point of view, deeply wrong. I believe it was the first to say, in this House, and I repeat today, at the conclusion of this debate, that, in these circumstances, who must rule is the government. We can contribute, we can put forward amendments, but we should all be aware that we are in emergency. How will the parties vote? They will vote in accordance with their proposals. And perhaps he also agreed to see how other parties will vote on our proposals, because we have global proposals, with global solutions, either for the social sector or from the point of view of the economy. I should like to conclude by saying that, in my view, it is particularly shocking to see that at a time when freedom, freedom in general — freedom of movement, freedom of initiative, freedom of enterprise, freedom of business, which is already so under attack — some of them are creating the idea that more is needed. That is to attack even more this freedom, it is to attack even more the private initiative, it is to try to put an end to the companies that are already in their situation. It is absolutely regrettable, as we have heard from Mrs Mariana Mortágua... [[BE's protests.]] Calm down, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! As I was saying, it is absolutely regrettable, as we have heard now, for example, to talk about the private health sector requirement, because we defend the National Health Service, but we also defend a national health system where, obviously, private hospitals and private medicine are...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u303	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u304	I'm done, Mr. President. A little while ago I was interrupted, so I'm just asking you for another 15 seconds. These private entities are, moreover, providing a fundamental service, which they have already contracted, so there is no reason to want to destroy them. We all want to wake up from this nightmare, but I want to wake up in Portugal of companies, of freedom, in Portugal of the Sec. Twenty-first and not last-century Albania!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u305	Mr Ventura has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is one of those moments in history when we see what state we want and what state we are willing to build — a state that owes companies hundreds of millions of euros and now tells them that they will not have support if they have tax debts or if they have social security debts. The same State that owes them millions is the state that now tells them that they cannot have debts. But this is also the time to remember that the State that says that we must continue to charge taxes still today charges VAT (value added tax) in health protection material to municipalities and businesses. There's no state worse than this one! But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you the following, very frankly: they said that private health has closed. You should be ashamed to say that here today. Still yesterday, on national television, in view of everyone, a report from the Hospital da CUF do Porto showing the fight against COVID passed reports from more than 100 patients hospitalized in private hospitals and more than 2200 who were accompanied by private health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u307	It was in the advertising range!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u308	We know, sirs. Members, they are also workers, they are also people who get up every day to pay the taxes that support this House and who at least deserve a word of respect, so they should not come here saying that private health has closed the doors.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u309	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u310	I will now finish, Mr President. This model is not even that of Albania because Albania has private hospitals. You really want to be the Cuban model, where there's nothing for anyone. The taxes are for everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u311	Thank you very much, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u312	We won't accept that! It is shameful how they treat private health in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u313	We are thus finishing the seventh item on our agenda, and we are now, if we are all in a position to vote. In the meantime, Mr Telmo Correia asks for a technical pause, which will be given for a few moments. As long as Mr Telmo Correia is going to have hundreds of pages of balloting scripts, the Bureau would like to remember that we will then have a long round of votes. I would also like to ask for the cooperation and understanding of all and of all towards possible failures and which, of course, will be the responsibility of the Bureau and, first of all, of my responsibility. However, we will seek to ensure that this voting marathon is carried out effectively. We will only wait for Mr Telmo Correia's return and then begin. [[Pause.]] We are then in a position to begin the votes. However, the electronic picture already shows the results of the quorum verification that has been done before, so we are in a regiment of getting the votes started. There are several additional scripts, which I will announce as necessary. Let us then begin by voting, in general, on the Bill No 22 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establish an exceptional regime to promote the response capacity of local authorities in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on this proposal for a regulation, in particular, on what we will follow the supplementary script. Let us begin by voting on Article 1. Law No. 22 / XIV / 1. a. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 2 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] [[Article 2 Exemptions and benefits under the financial arrangements of local authorities and inter-municipal entities 1 — The recognition of the right to exemption provided for in Article 16(9) of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current drafting shall fall within the competence of the municipal chamber, in strict compliance with the rules of the Regulation referred to in paragraph 2 of that Article, except in duly substantiated exceptional situations and directly related to the measures to combat COVID-19, in which the need for regulation by the municipal assembly is waived, and in such cases the full or partial exemption cannot be longer than the end of the current calendar year.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u314	The vote on Article 2 ( 1 ) is therefore detrimental. The proposal of the law. We now vote on the proposal by the CDS-PP amending Article 2 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were rejected against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of CDS-PP, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 2 (...) 1 — 2 — The provisions of the preceding paragraph do not cover any taxes covered by Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current wording, with the exception of the provisions of the following Article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u315	The vote on Article 2 ( 2 ) shall follow. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PSD and PAN were adopted against the CDS-PP and CH and abstentions by BE, PCP, PEV, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD and CH abstentions.]] [[It shall be as follows: 3 — Exemptions granted under paragraph 1 shall be communicated to the President of the deliberative body and to the holders of the right of opposition by electronic means.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u316	We proceed with the vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP for the addition of Article 2. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes were rejected against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 2a Moratory, reduction or exemption from municipal property tax 1 — Without prejudice to the powers of the municipalities in this area, the municipal chamber is authorised to grant a moratorium, reduction or exemption of IMI of the rustic and urban buildings located in its municipality, setting the respective criteria and conditions, without the need for authorization by the municipal assembly, without prejudice to the subjection of ratification by this body so that it may, with reference to the 2019 Municipal Property Tax, be settled in 2020. 2 — For the purpose of the above paragraph, the municipal chambers shall communicate to the Tax and Customs Authority the decision on such tax by 24 April 2020, having effect on the settlement of IMI to be carried out from May 2020.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u317	We shall now vote on the proposal tabled by the CFP amending Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3 Short-term loans Without prejudice to Article 49(5) and Article 50(2) of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current drafting, in exceptional situations, duly substantiated and related to expenditure associated with the fight and the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic, municipal chambers may borrow until 12 months without the need for authorization by the municipal assembly, without prejudice to the subjecting of ratification by that body as soon as they may meet.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u318	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira as amended by Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH were rejected, votes against the NAP, IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] [[It was as follows: Article 3 Short-term loans Without prejudice to Article 49(5) and Article 50(2) of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current drafting, in exceptional situations, duly substantiated and directly related to unfavourable expenses associated with the fight against the COVID19 pandemic, in particular for direct and indirect support to the population, strengthening of public health teams, collecting urban waste and civil protection, municipal chambers may engage in loans without the need for authorization by the municipal assembly, without prejudice to the submission of ratification by this body as soon as they may gather.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u319	We shall therefore vote on Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, PAN, IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and Abstaining from BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH.]] The following is the vote on the proposal by the NAP for an addendum to Article 3 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] [[It is as follows: 2 — Loans under paragraph 1 shall be communicated to the chairman of the deliberative body and to the guardians of the right of opposition by electronic means.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u320	We now vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 4 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV and CH.]] We proceed with the vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 4 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH.]] We shall now vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 4 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted, with a vote in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, BE, the PCP, the ENP and the IL and abstentions of the NAP and the CH.]] [[It is as follows: Article 4 Support for persons in a vulnerable situation 1 — During the duration of this Act, the power to provide the support provided for in Article 33(1)(v) of Law No 75/2013 of 12 September 2013 in its current wording, in that regard, is considered legally delegated to the President of the municipal chamber.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u321	Therefore, the vote on Article 4 (1). The bill is damaged. We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, replacing Article 4 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD and the PAN.]] [[It was as follows: Article 4 Support for vulnerable persons 1 — [...]. 2 — Support provided for in the previous paragraph may be granted regardless of the existence of municipal or partnership regulations with competent entities of the central administration and with private institutions of social solidarity, in particular: (i) support and monitoring of homeless populations; (ii) support for elderly and single-headed populations in the situation of quarantine for essential purchases, delivery of meals, collection and delivery of medicinal products, walking of their domestic animals; (iii) signage, support and monitoring of victims of domestic violence; (iv) support and follow-up to families or municips who have not been able to make any source of income or have become substantially reduced; (v) facilities for municips whose housing is in precarious condition, and (g. g., insalucurate or overcrowding, and other which do not allow for quarantine under the recommended conditions; (vi) third-age homes, in particular to the level of strengthening of health and hygiene equipment; (vi) supply to transport, safety and safety; (vi)]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u322	We shall vote on Article 4 (2). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH.]] We now turn to the vote on the proposal by BE amending Article 4 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CH abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The acts carried out under paragraph 1 and their justification shall be communicated to the members of the executive body and to the chairman of the deliberative body which shall communicate to all municipal groups, by electronic means, within the shortest possible time.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u323	We now vote on the proposal by the PSD amending Article 4 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the NAP.]] [[It shall be as follows: 3 — Acts carried out under paragraph 1 shall be communicated to the members of the executive body and to the chairman of the deliberative body, by electronic means, within 48 hours of their practice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u324	Therefore, the vote on the proposal by the NAP amends Article 4 ( 3 ). The bill is damaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u325	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u326	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u327	Mr President, that is to say that the subject of our amendment is not the same. That is to say, the matter does not collide in the same way as the PSD proposal does not collide, so the NAP proposal must also be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u328	That is how we will do it, Mrs Deputies, so that everything will be clear. We then voted on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 4 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — Acts carried out under paragraph 1 shall be communicated to the members of the executive body, to the chairman of the deliberative body and to the holders of the right of opposition by electronic means.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u329	The vote on Article 4 ( 3 ) has therefore been adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 4. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected, votes in favour of the PAN, CH and IL and abstentions from PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: Article 4a Accounting Report 1 — The President of the City Chamber shall draw up and submit to the approval of the Municipal Assembly by 31 December 2020 an accounting report identifying in a separate manner the measures taken under this Act and the expenditure involved. 2 — The report referred to in the previous paragraph shall be the subject of public discussion in the municipal assembly and may, at the initiative of the president of the municipal chamber, accept the recommendations or suggestions made by the municipal assembly at that headquarters. 3 — The report referred to in the previous issues shall be published in the respective municipal newspaper or bulletin and on the city's website.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u330	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 4. o-B to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CH and IL abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: Article 4b Non-applicability of municipal debt limits The measures taken under this Act, the expenditure intended to ensure the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by COVID-19 and the expenditure with programmes to support the population in this context, are not considered for the purposes of determining the total debt of the municipalities referred to in Article 52(1) of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in their current wording.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u331	We now vote on Article 5. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We continue with the vote on Article 6. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to add Article 6 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PSD, PAN, CH and IL, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP abstentions.]] [[It is as follows: 2 — With regard to new loans, the purpose of Article 51(1) of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current wording is extended for expenditure intended to combat the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, without the need for authorization by the municipal assembly, without prejudice to the submission of ratification by that body as soon as it can gather.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u332	We voted on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 6. o -A to the bill. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL.]] [[It is as follows: Article 6a Budget balance In 2020 the application of Article 40(2) of Law No 73/2013 of 3 September 2013 in its current wording is suspended.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u333	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD for the addition of Article 6. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD, the PAN and the IL, and abstentions against the CDS-PP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: Article 6a Amendment to Decree-Law No 10-G/2020 of 26 March Article 2 of Decree-Law No 10-G/2020 of 26 March is amended with the following wording: ‘Article 2 [...] 1 — The exceptional measures provided for in this Decree-Law apply to private employers, including employers of the social sector, and workers at their service, as well as to local business sector entities, affected by the COVID-19 pandemic and which are therefore in a situation of business crisis, by electronic request submitted by the employer with the social security services. 2 —....’;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u334	We are now voting on the proposal by the NAP to add Article 6. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and CH.]] [[It was as follows: Article 6a Support Line for municipalities 1 — A financial support line is established with the Ministry of Modernization of the State and Public Administration for municipalities, which aims to provide loans, without interest, for the financing of expenditure with support programmes for the population and people in a vulnerable situation in the context of epidemiological infection by COVID-19. 2 — The support line referred to in the previous paragraph is financed by the State budget for 2020, through own funds from the Ministry of Modernisation of State and Public Administration. 3 — Within 5 days of the publication of this Act, the member of the Government responsible for the area of local authorities shall approve a portal regulating the conditions for granting and refunding loans provided for in paragraph 1.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u335	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the PS for the addition of Article 6. o -A to the bill. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: Article 6a Acceptance of donations During the period of validity of this Act, the Board shall accept donations of movable property intended for the implementation of exceptional and temporary measures for the prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19, as well as for the response to their social consequences.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u336	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 6. o-B to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 6b Additional measures The Government, in conjunction with local authorities, shall ensure as soon as possible:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u337	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the PSD amending Article 7. The proposal of the law. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, on behalf of the Bureau, we have 112 votes against, the PS and the PAN, 111 votes in favour and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the CH...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u338	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u339	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u340	Mr President, as the CDS and the CH make 6 Members, 112 votes in favour and 112 against, which gives a draw.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u341	All right. in that case, we will have to repeat the vote. [[Pause.]] Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, what was the point of vote of the Liberal Initiative?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u342	It was in favour, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u343	in this case, it is true: 112 votes against and 112 in favour. We will therefore have to repeat the vote and if the proposal remains the same, the proposal will be rejected. Let us then vote again on the proposal submitted by the PSD for an amendment to Article 7. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the PAN, votes in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and IL and abstentions from the CDS-PP, CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: Article 7 Effect Production This Act shall take effect on 1 March 2020.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u344	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 7. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, BE, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, as amended Article 8. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: Article 8 Entry into force and validity This law shall enter into force on the day following its publication and shall enter into force until 30 September 2020.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u345	We now vote on Article 8. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the Bill No 22 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establish an exceptional regime to promote the response capacity of local authorities in the context of the COVID-19 disease pandemic, with the changes that have been introduced in the meantime. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving forward to the second additional script. We shall, in general, vote on the Bill No. 23 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs an exceptional regime for flexible enforcement of penalties and free measures within the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, the vote against the CH and the abstentions of the PS, the CDS-PP, the NAP and the IL were adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CCP, the ENP and the Member of the European Parliament.]] We shall now proceed to the vote in the speciality of that bill. We begin with the vote on the proposal by the NAP to delete Article 1 ( b ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and MP were rejected and votes against the NAP.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 1. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the IL and abstentions from the CDS-PP were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: Article 1 Subject This Act establishes an exceptional regime for flexible enforcement of prison sentences and clemency measures under the COVID-19 pandemic, regulating the following measures: (a) an exceptional regime for modifying the enforcement of the prison sentence for housing stay arrangements; and (b) an exceptional system for granting pardon. (c) (Deleted) (d) (Deleted)]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u346	We now vote on the remaining rules of Article 1. The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u347	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u348	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u349	Mr President, you have given the Bureau a request from the PSD to request the separation of the vote from points ( a ), ( c ) and (d) of the vote under point ( b ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u350	Mr President, with all honesty, we do not have that request.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u351	But it has already been distributed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u352	Mr President, we can perfectly accept the oral request and I believe that no one will oppose the vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask everyone's attention. With no objection, we shall then vote together Article 1 ( a), ( c ) and ( d ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CH and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the NAP and the IL.]] Let us now vote on Article 1 ( b ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PAN and the CH and the abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to add Article 1 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP, the PEN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and the IL and abstentions from the PSD and BE.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The application of the measures provided for in this Act depends on the verification of the following cumulative assumptions in respect of each specific case: (a) Do not represent the risk of the practice of new crimes by the convicted person, in accordance with the binding opinion of the Directorate-General for Prison Services and Reintegration; (b) Do not cause social alarm, taking into account the crime for which he was convicted; (c) Do not represent the risk of contagion of COVID-19, nor the risk to public health.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u353	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS to add Article 1 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL, votes against the BE, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The measures provided for in this Act do not apply to persons convicted of crimes committed against members of the police and security forces, armed forces and officials and prison guards in the performance of their duties.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u354	We shall vote on the proposal for a replacement by the PSD of Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL and the NAP were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: Article 2 Exceptional regime for the modification of the enforcement of the prison sentence for residence arrangements 1 — Without prejudice to the provisions of Articles 118 to 122 of the Code of Implementation of the Penalties and Privatative Measures of Freedom, approved in Annex to Law No 115/2009 of 12 October, the prison sentence applied to the effective execution of the penalty shall be amended by the Court of enforcement of the penalties for residence arrangements, with remote supervision by technical means of control, in the case of the following convicted prisoners: (a) It shall be 60 years old or older at the date of entry into force of this Act; (b) Immuno-depressed or carrying chronic disease which, in accordance with the guidelines of the health care authority, must be considered as at risk, in particular because it is hypertensive, diabetic, cardiovascular, chronic respiratory disease or cancer; (c) She is pregnant or accompanied by a child under three years old. (c) the crime of domestic violence and ill-treatment provided for in Articles 152 and 152a of the Criminal Code, respectively; 3 — The residence arrangements referred to in paragraph 1 shall consist of the obligation of the convicted person to remain in the dwelling, with supervision by technical means of distance control, length of time of imprisonment and while in accordance with Article 4, the exceptional situation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19 may only be permitted to receive medical care in the establishment or unit of health. 4 — Articles 119, 120(3) and (4) (b), 121, 122, 216 to 222, 222B and 222D of the Code for the Enforcement of Privy Penalties and Measures of Freedom, approved in Annex to Law No 115/2009 of 12 October, shall apply with the necessary adaptations. 5 — The procedures for modifying the execution of the prison sentence for residence arrangements referred to in this Article are urgent.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u355	We shall vote on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 2 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH and votes against the BE, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — Prison sentences for prisoners convicted of a decision handed down in court, of a duration of less than two years or less, as well as sentences of a duration of less than two years which, in the meantime, pass on trial while the state of emergency is in force, and in this case penalties should be replaced by fines or working days.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u356	We shall vote on Article 2 ( 1 ). the proposal for a law, with the amendments made in the meantime. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u357	We shall vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 2 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CH and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] [[It is as follows: 2 — The remaining periods of imprisonment of prisoners sentenced by a decision handed down under trial are also forgiven, of a duration exceeding that referred to in the previous paragraph, if the time remaining for their full fulfilment is equal to or greater than two years, and the prisoner has fulfilled at least half the penalty.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u358	Article 2 ( 2 ) is prejudiced. The proposal of the law. We shall vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 2 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CH and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] [[It is as follows: 3 — The pardon referred to in previous paragraphs covers the subsidiary prison resulting from the conversion of the penalty of fines and the execution of the sentence of imprisonment for failure to comply with the penalty of fines of substitution and, in the case of a legal cluster, affects the single penalty.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u359	Article 2 ( 3 ). the bill is damaged. We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 2 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CH and abstains from BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] [[It is as follows: 4 — In the event of the same prisoner being sentenced in successive sentences without a legal settlement, forgiveness shall affect only the remainder of the sum of those sentences if the time remaining for full compliance is equal to or less than 2 years.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u360	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to add Article 2 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CH and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] [[It is as follows: 4 — With regard to sentences of substitution, the pardon referred to in this article should only be applied if the revocation or suspension takes place.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u361	We shall vote on the proposal by the CFP to amend paragraph 4 ( renumbered as Article 2 ( 5 ) of the CFP. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CH and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] [[This is the following: 4 — While it has also been condemned by the practice of other crimes, it shall not be entitled to be the beneficiaries of the pardon referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 those convicted by the practice: (a) the crime of murder provided for in Articles 131, 132 and 133 of the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No. 48/95 of 15 March in its current wording; (b) the crime of domestic violence and of ill-treatment provided for in Articles 152 and 152 and 152 of the Criminal Code; (c) crimes against personal liberty, in Chapter IV of Title I of Title I of Book II of the Criminal Code; (d) offences against sexual liberty and self-determination; (d) criminal offences against sexual liberty and self-determination; (d) the criminal offences against sexual liberty and self-law of the law of the law; (b) articles V. chapter V of articles chapter I of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of the Statute; (b) articles chapter I of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title I of Title of Title of Title of Title I of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title I of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title and Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title and Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title II of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title and Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title and Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title and Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title of Title]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u362	The proposed amendment by the PS of paragraph 4 ( renumbered as paragraph 5 by the PS ) and Article 2 ( 4 ). that of the bill are damaged. We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for an addendum to Article 2 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PAN and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: (n) crimes against pets.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u363	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to add Article 2 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CH and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] [[(n) of the crimes of Articles 144, 145(1)(c) and 147 of the Criminal Code.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u364	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to replace Article 2 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: 5 — The pardon referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 implies the fulfilment of the remainder of the prison period, when of a duration of more than 6 months, in a residence arrangement with the use of technical means of remote control, in accordance with Law No 33/2010 of 2 September.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u365	We shall vote on the proposal by the CFP amending paragraph 5 ( renumbered as Article 2 ( 6 ) of the CFP. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH and the abstention from the NAP.]] [[It is as follows: 5 — The pardon referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be granted to prisoners whose convictions have been brought before the date of the entry into force of this Act and under the binding condition that the beneficiary does not commit a criminal offence in the year following the date of the entry into force of this Law, if the penalty for the superintendent offence is increased.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u366	Article 2 ( 5 ). The bill is damaged. We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add paragraph 6 ( renumbered as paragraph 7 by the CFP ) to Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH and the abstention from the NAP.]] [[It shall be as follows: 6 — It shall be the responsibility of the courts for the enforcement of territorially competent penalties for the application of the forgiveness laid down in this Law and for the issuing of their sents with an urgent nature.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u367	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 2 ( 6 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against BE, PAN and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 6 — Forgiveness should be directed towards the reintegration of the agent into society, mainly in the chapter of professional reintegration, which should be ensured in conjunction with the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u368	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP to add paragraph 6 to Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and IL and abstention from the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: 6 — The pardon referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 shall be granted on a suspensive condition that the convicted person consents to the use of remote technical means of control which, in accordance with Article 7 of the respective legal regime and for the purposes of this law, may be given before the Director-General for Integration and Prison Services.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u369	The proposal submitted by the PS to add paragraph 6 ( paid as paragraph 7 by the PS ) to Article 2. The bill is damaged. We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to add paragraph 7 ( numbered as paragraph 8 by the PS ) to Article 2. The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH and the NAP abstention.]] [[It is as follows: 7 — Forgiveness referred to in paragraphs 1 and 2 may only be applied once for each convicted person.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u370	The proposal submitted by the PS for the addition of paragraph 8 ( numbered as paragraph 9 by the PS ) to Article 2. The bill is damaged. We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to delete Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of the NAP.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 3. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[(c) The application or proposal for a pardon, addressed to the President of the Republic, may be submitted all the time during the exceptional situation during the exceptional situation; 3 — Procedures for instructing the granting and revocation of the pardon as well as for their application, as referred to in this Article, are urgent.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u371	We shall vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 3 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against PS and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — The member of the Government responsible for the area of justice may propose to the President of the Republic the total or partial pardon of the prison sentence applied to a prisoner who is 70 or more years old at the date of the entry into force of this law, and is a carrier of illness, physical or psychic, or of a degree of autonomy incompatible with normal prison stay in the context of this pandemic.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u372	We shall vote on Article 3 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CH and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We shall vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 3 ( 2 ( a ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CH and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] [[(a) medical information on the state of health, physical or psychological, of the prisoner and his degree of autonomy and his incompatibility with normal maintenance in the prison environment;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u373	We shall vote on the remaining points and bodies of Article 3 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against CH and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP and PAN.]] We shall vote on Article 3 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CH and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We shall vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 3 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP, IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PAN and CH and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It is as follows: 4 — The granting and revocation of the pardon shall apply to Articles 223(2) and (3) of Articles 227 and 228 of the Code for the Enforcement of the Penalties and Privy Measures of Freedom, as approved by Law No 115/2009 of 12 October 2009 in its current wording.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u374	Article 3 ( 4 ). the bill is damaged. We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to add Article 3 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CH and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It is as follows: 5 — Prisoners convicted of the practice of the crimes referred to in Article 2(5) may not be covered by the exceptional pardon.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u375	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to add Article 3 ( 6 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PAN and the CH and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[It is as follows: 6 — Applications for a pardon may be submitted by the interested parties within 3 working days of the entry into force of that diploma and must be subsequently directed within 5 working days.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u376	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PSD to replace Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] [[It was as follows: Article 4 Temporary scope The scheme provided for in this Act applies until the exceptional situation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and of the disease COVID-19, to be decreed pursuant to Article 7(2) of Law No 1-A/2020 of 19 March.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u377	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 4 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and MP were rejected and votes against the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — The Director-General for Reintegration and Prison Services or, by delegation thereof, the Deputy General Directors of Reintegration and Prison Services may grant to the convicted inmate who is 65 years old or older at the date of the entry into force of this Act, whether carrying a disease, physical or psychic, or a degree of autonomy incompatible with the normal stay in prison, in the context of this pandemic, by consent, leave for the period of 45 days.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u378	We shall proceed to the vote on Article 4 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] Let us now vote on the proposal from the NAP for the addition of paragraph 2, numbered as paragraph 3, to Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and MP were rejected and votes against the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — For situations covered by the previous paragraph, the leave of departure for the period of 45 days shall be granted, filled by the assumptions expressed in that paragraph, to prisoners sentenced for a decision handed down in court, of a duration equal to or less than two years and to prisoners whose remaining periods of imprisonment for more than two years by a decision handed down in court, if the time left for full compliance is equal to or less than two years.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u379	The following is the vote on the proposal by the NAP for the addition of paragraph 3, numbered as paragraph 4, to Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH, IL and MP were rejected and votes against the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — The exit licence referred to in the previous paragraphs covers prison sentences as an alternative to fines and, in the case of a legal cluster, affects the single penalty.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u380	Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of paragraph 4, numbered as paragraph 5, to Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the NAP and the abstention of the IL.]] [[The following was the following: 5 — There shall be no benefit from the exit licence referred to in paragraphs 1, 1, 2 and 3 those convicted by practice: (a) the crime of murder provided for in Articles 131, 132, 132 and 133 of the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No. 48/95 of 15 March in its current wording; (b) the crime of domestic violence and criminal offences and criminal offences, provided for in Articles 152 and 152a of the Criminal Code; (c) crimes against personal freedom, as provided in Chapter IV of Chapter IV of Title I of Title II of the Criminal Code; (d) crimes against sexual freedom and self-determination of sexual liberty, as provided for in Chapter V of Title I of Title I of Book II of the Criminal Code of the Criminal Code of the Criminal Code of Criminal offence, article 152(2) and Article 15(2) of the Criminal offence, article 2 (2), article 2 (2), article 2 (2), article 2 (2) and (3) and (3) and (3); (c) offences against offences against the right to freedom of sexual liberty and self-law, including identity of the identity of the identity of the identity of the identity of the person, title, title, title of the criminal identity of the criminal identity of the criminal identity of the criminal identity of the article 22 chapter of the criminal identity of the criminal identity of the criminal identity of the criminal law of the criminal law of the criminal law of the criminal law of the criminal law of the criminal law of the criminal law of the criminal law of the criminal law of the Criminal and the criminal and the criminal and the criminal law of the criminal law of the criminal law of the criminal law of the criminal law of the criminal law of the Criminal law and the Criminal law and the Criminal law; and the criminal law of the criminal law of the criminal law of the criminal law of the criminal law of the criminal law and the Criminal law; (as and personal title of the criminal law; (as and personal title of the offence; (as and personal title of the criminal law; (as, including, including, including, including, including, including, including, including, including, including, including, and personal title of the person, including, including, including, including, and personal title of the right; (c, including, including, including, including, including, including, articles; (c, articles; (c and personal title of the title of the title of the title of the]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u381	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for an amendment to Article 4 ( 2 ), which shall be renumbered as Article 4 ( 6 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected and votes against PAN and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 6 — I refer to the convicted person's duty to remain in the house with technical means of remote control and to accept the surveillance of social reintegration services and the elements of the territorially competent criminal police bodies, complying with their guidelines and responding to regular contacts, that they come with it, even by telephone.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u382	We now vote on the remaining numbers, i.e. Article 4 ( 2 ) to ( 10 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were adopted, votes against PSD and CH and the CDS-PP abstention.]] The following is the vote on the proposal for a new Article 4. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, ENP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: Article 4a Extraordinary Administrative Exit Licence for Pregnant and Prisoner Persons Convicted with Receivables in Prisons The Director-General for Reintegration and Prison Services or, by delegation thereof, the Assistant-General Reintegration and Prisoners, grant to pregnant persons and convicted prisoners whose minor descendants are in charge in the context of prison establishment, through their consent, leave for 45 days, being subject to remote control mechanisms.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u383	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for a new Article 4. o-B to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PCP, ENP and CH, votes against the PAN and IL and abstentions against BE, CDS-PP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: Article 4b Strengthening technical means of remote control and individual protective equipment The Government promotes the urgent strengthening of technical means of remote control, as well as the immediate strengthening of means and equipment of individual protection, protecting all persons (professionals, detainees and prisoners) present in prisons.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u384	We now turn to the vote on the proposal by the PSD for the abolition of Article 5. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall vote for Article 5. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] Let us now vote on the proposal submitted by the PS for an addendum to Article 5 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PSD and the CH and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] [[It is as follows: 4 — Articles 62 of the Criminal Code and 188 of the Code for the Enforcement of Penalties and Privatative Measures of Freedom apply, if it is in particular more favourable to the prisoner.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u385	The following is the vote on the proposal submitted by the CDS-PP for the addition of a new Article 5. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against CH.]] [[It is as follows: Article 5a Return to Prisons In any circumstances which, under this Act, dictate the return of the convicted person to the prison environment, there is the prior fulfilment of a quarantine period of 14 days, in accordance with which they have been determined by the Directorate-General for Prisons and Reintegration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u386	Let us now vote on the proposal from the PS and add Article 5. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the CDS-PP and the CH and the abstention from the NAP.]] [[It is as follows: Article 5a Preventive and particularly vulnerable prisoners 1 — The judge shall review the pretrial detention assumptions irrespective of the course of the three months referred to in Article 213 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, especially where the defendants are in any of the situations described in Article 3(1), in order to satisfy the need for the measure by assessing, inter alia, the effective subsistence of the general requirements laid down in Article 204 of that Code. 2 — In accordance with Article 193 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, preventive detention may only be applied when it is manifestly inadequate or insufficient for other coercion measures.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u387	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal for an addendum to Article 5. o-B to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CH and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[Article 5b Public health procedures The release of prisoners under this diploma shall be preceded by the procedures indicated by the Directorate-General for Health.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u388	We shall vote on the proposal from the PS to add Article 5. o-C to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CH and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It is as follows: Article 5c Extraordinary condition of judges For the implementation of the provisions of this Law and during the period during which the same vigor, the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, within its powers of management, shall affect the courts carrying out the penalties necessary.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u389	We shall also vote on the proposal from the PS to add Article 5. o-D to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CH and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It is as follows: Article 5d Cessation of validity This law ceases to apply on the date fixed by the law decree provided for in Article 7(2) of Law No 1-A/2020 of 19 March, which will determine the end of the exceptional situation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u390	Finally, in terms of specialty, we turn to the vote on Article 6. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against CH and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We are voting now, with the amendments introduced in the meantime, in the overall final vote, the Bill No 23 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establishs an exceptional regime for flexible enforcement of penalties and free measures within the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed this vote and we have moved on to additional script III, which is significantly shorter. This script refers to Parliamentary Appreciation No 8 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 10 - D / 2020 of 23 March ( Establishs exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the COVID-19 disease epidemic related to the electronic communications sector ).
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u391	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u392	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u393	Mr President, as we have concluded these votes, I would like to request the final drafting waiver and the reduction of the deadline for filing claims against inaccuracies in the applicable statutory terms in respect of Bill Nos 22 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Establish an exceptional regime to promote the response capacity of local authorities in the context of the COVID 19 and 23 / XIV / 1 disease pandemic. a ( GOV ) — Establishs an exceptional regime for flexible enforcement of penalties and free measures within the framework of the COVID-19 pandemic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u394	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wonder if anyone is opposed to this request, presented by the Socialist Party. [[Pause.]] If there is no objection, the application is deemed to be approved unanimously and so it will be done. As I have already said, we shall then proceed to the vote on the subject contained in Supplement III, which concerns Parliamentary Assessment No 8 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 10 - D / 2020 of 23 March ( Establishs exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the COVID-19 disease epidemic related to the electronic communications sector ). We begin by voting on the proposal from the CFP to add Article 3. o-C to Decree-Law No 10 - D / 2020 of 23 March 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] [[(b) restrictions shall be suspended, including those provided for in the contract for the provision of electronic communications services, in respect of the amount of data to be transmitted, either in access or in the consignment by the user.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u395	Let us now vote on the proposal from the CFP to eliminate Article 4 ( 2 ). that of the so-called Decree-Law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal of the CFP amending Article 4 ( 5 ). The Law Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the CH.]] [[It was as follows: 5 — Network and traffic management measures provided for in this Decree may only be adopted to meet the objectives referred to in paragraph 1 and must be communicated to the Government and the National Communications Authority (ANACOM) prior to its implementation, or, where the urgency of its adoption does not permit early communication within 24 hours after its adoption, and in all cases must be submitted for its justification.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u396	The vote is followed by the vote on the proposal of the CFP amending Article 9 ( 1 ( a ). that of the same Decree-Law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[(a) through the prior binding opinion of the competent police force, the participation of police forces in the necessary interventions to ensure the replacement of critical services, to ensure the response to special requests from priority customers and to the installation of temporary infrastructures for capacity-building or extension of networks to relevant locations, except where the owners do not provide it;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u397	We shall vote on the proposal from the CFP to amend Article 12. The Law Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: This decree shall take effect from 20 March for the 30-day period and may be extended for the same period if its need is met, which must be substantiated, and by evaluation of its application.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u398	Mrs. Members, having no amendments to Decree-Law No 10 - D / 2020 of 23 March, there is no final overall vote. We now turn to the votes, in the speciality, of Supplement IV, concerning Parliamentary Assessment No 9 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March ( Approves a set of measures relating to the epidemiological situation of the new coronavirus — COVID-19 ). Let us begin by voting on the proposal from the CFP to Article 6 ( 7 ). the Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020, of 13 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 7 — Following the cessation of exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic, the employment contracts concluded under this Article shall be converted into permanent or unfinished employment contracts, as appropriate, provided that the worker has expressed his or her will within 30 days.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u399	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal from the CFP to Article 6 ( 8 ). that of the so-called Decree-Law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 8 — Where the conversion of the work link provided for in the previous paragraph depends on the conduct of the invitation to tender, the workers referred to in the previous paragraph are automatically considered as opponents of the competition and the competitive procedure is carried out by each service or entity with the opening of vacancies in the corresponding number.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u400	The vote on the proposal for an amendment to Article 9 ( 4 ) shall follow. that of the same Decree-Law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of CH.]] [[It is as follows: 4 — Groups of schools and non-grouped schools of the public education network and private, cooperative and social sector institutions and public finance sectors shall adopt the measures necessary for the provision of food support to students receiving grades A and B of the school social action and, where necessary, the measures to support students of specialized units that have been integrated into the learning support centres and whose stay at school is considered indispensable.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u401	Let us now vote on the proposal from the CFP amending Article 10 ( 1 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of CH.]] [[It is as follows: 1 — A teaching institution is identified in each group of schools that promotes the reception of children or other dependents by health professionals, security and relief forces and services, including voluntary firefighters, and the Armed Forces, workers of essential public services and social institutions or equipment to support elderly persons such as day-care centres and others, for the management and maintenance of essential infrastructures, as well as other essential services, whose mobilization for the service or readiness to provide assistance to them, following the suspension provided for in the preceding article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u402	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to replace Article 10 ( 1 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the BE and the PAN and abstentions from the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] [[1 was the following: 1 was the following: 1 point: 1 — — During the suspension of the educational and non-legisive and non-legisive and formative activities, determined in accordance with the preceding article, the mobilization for the service or readiness of essential service workers, for the need to provide their activity, mobilized by the employer or the public authority, in the context of the epidemiological outbreak caused by SARRS-CoVV2-2, shall be determined in accordance with the following Article: (a) In cases where the family member of the family unit is constituted by an essential service worker or readiness or readiness of essential service workers, because of the need for the provision of their activity, due to the need for the provision of the provision of their activity by the employer or readiness of their activity, by the employer of another sector of activity, by the employer or by the employer or by the employer or by the employer or by the employer, by the employer of another activity sector of another activity sector of another activity sector of the employer or by another sector of activity sector of activity, by the employer or by the employer of another sector of another sector of activity, by another sector of activity, by another sector of activity, by the child or other sector of work, by the child sector of the child or by the child sector of the child sector of the child or other sector of the child sector of the child sector of the child sector of the child sector of the child sector of the child or by the child or by the child or other, or other, or other employed, or other employed or other employed or other employed, or other employed, or other, and dependent sector of the dependent sector of the dependent sector of the dependent sector of the child, without without without having having having the worker, and without without having having having having having the right and without the right and without the right and without without the right of the right of the right of the possibility of the right of the right of the possibility of the possibility of the right of the possibility of the possibility of the possibility of the possibility of the ability of the possibility of the possibility of the possibility of the possibility of the ability of the ability of the ability of the ability of the ability of the right of the right of the ability of the right of the ability of the ability of the ability of the ability of the ability of the ability of the ability of the ability of the ability of the ability of the ability of the ability of the ability of]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u403	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to replace Article 10 ( 2 ). The Law Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the BE and the PAN and abstentions from the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — In the situation provided for in the initial part of sub-paragraph (b) of paragraph (ii) of the previous paragraph, the social support provided for in Article 23 of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March will correspond to what was due to the worker of essential services which he excluded from his right to care for the family.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u404	The following is the vote on the proposal by the NAP for an addendum to Article 10 ( 3 ). The Law Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the BE and the PAN and abstentions from the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — For the purposes of the situation laid down in the final part of subparagraph (b)(ii) of paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 of this Article, a teaching institution shall be identified in each group of schools promoting the reception of children or other dependents in charge of essential service workers.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u405	Mrs. Members, I wonder if anyone is opposed to the other votes relating to parliamentary assessment No 9 / XIV / 1. to be made together.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u406	Mr President, on our part, it cannot be.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u407	If you could indicate the vote you want to be isolated, the Bureau would be grateful.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u408	Mr President, we wanted to vote alone on Article 19 ( 8 ). the, which is on page 3 of the script...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u409	Mr President, I am sorry, but it seems to me that it is not worth it, because I have many exceptions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u410	Surely, Mr President, we shall then vote point by point.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u411	I am sorry, Mr President, but those who lie down at 21 a.m. are at 22 p.m.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u412	There is no problem, sir. The vote on the proposal, submitted by the NAP, was then followed by an addendum to Article 10 ( 4 ). The Law Decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the BE and the PAN and abstentions from the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — For the purposes of this Article, essential health professionals, security and relief services, including voluntary firefighters, and the Armed Forces, essential public service workers, management and maintenance of essential infrastructure, as well as other essential services, whose mobilisation for the service or readiness prevents them from providing care to their child or other dependents in charge as a result of the suspension of the legal and non-leaving activities provided for in the preceding article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u413	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add a new paragraph 5 to Article 19. that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 5 — The value referred to in the previous paragraph adds the payment of the meal allowance, with reference to the value taken by the worker on normal working day and may not be less than the value of the meal allowance for the employees of the Public Administration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u414	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 19 ( 6 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 6 — In cases where the meal is allocated in kind, the insulated worker has the right to perceive its value in cash, and cannot be less than the value of the meal allowance for the employees of the Public Administration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u415	We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for an addendum to Article 19 ( 8 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 8 — The prophylactic isolation of workers and the allocation of their allowance does not exempt the full fulfilment of the contribution obligations, to affect the whole of the reference remuneration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u416	We moved on to the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 19 ( 9 ). that of the decree. Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the CH.]] [[It was as follows: 9 — The provisions of this Article apply to trainee workers under the measure of professional internships, provided for and regulated in Ordinance No 131/2017 of 7 April 2017 in its current wording.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u417	We shall then vote on the proposal tabled by the CFP amending Article 20. that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 20 Sickness allowance 1 — In situations of illness of workers on behalf of another person and workers who are independent of the general social security scheme with illness caused by the said COVID-19, a subsidy of 100% of the reference remuneration is awarded, not subject to warranty or waiting period.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u418	We now vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 20 ( 2 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the CH.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The provisions of this Article shall apply, with the necessary adaptations, to trainee workers under the measure of professional internships, provided for and regulated in Ordinance No 131/2017 of 7 April 2017, in its current wording.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u419	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add a new paragraph 2 to Article 21. that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — In the cases referred to in the previous paragraph, a subsidy of 100% of the reference remuneration is allocated.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u420	We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add a new paragraph 3 to Article 21. that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The value referred to in the previous paragraph adds the payment of the meal allowance, with reference to the value taken by the worker on normal working day and may not be less than the value of the meal allowance for the employees of the Public Administration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u421	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add a new paragraph 4 to Article 21. that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — In cases where the meal is allocated in kind, the worker is entitled to perceive his or her cash value and cannot be less than the amount of the meal allowance for the employees of the Public Administration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u422	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 21 ( 8 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 8 — The allocation of the disease allowance as provided for in paragraph 2, does not exempt the full fulfilment of the contribution obligations, to affect the whole of the reference remuneration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u423	We shall immediately vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 21 ( 9 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the CH.]] [[It was as follows: 9 — The arrangements provided for in this Article shall apply to self-employed persons.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u424	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 21 ( 10 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the CH.]] [[It was as follows: 10 — The provisions of this Article shall apply, with the necessary adaptations, to trainee workers under the measure of professional internships, provided for and regulated in Ordinance No 131/2017 of 7 April 2017, in its current wording.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u425	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 22 ( 1 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — During the duration of this diploma, the following deficiencies shall be considered justified, without loss of rights, including in respect of remuneration: (a) those motivated by unadhesible assistance to a child or other dependent under 16 years of age, or, regardless of age, with disability or chronic illness, resulting from the suspension of educational and non-permanent activities in school or social equipment supporting first childhood or disability, and while they shall last, including during periods of formal interruption; (b) those motivated by assistance to a spouse or person living in a de facto union or common economy with the worker, parent or related to a straight line ascending, parent or reaching the third degree of the collateral line, which is in charge of the worker and which frequent social equipment is suspended by the determination of the health authority, within the scope of the exercise of his or her competence, or by the Government.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u426	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 22 ( 3 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The scheme provided for in paragraph 1 (a) of this Article shall also apply to child or other dependent under 12 years of age or, irrespective of age, disability or chronic illness, which is not attending school or early childhood support social equipment, are in alternative forms of support for children, including the care of grandparents or mothers.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u427	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 23 ( 1 ). the same decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — In the situations referred to in the preceding article, the worker on behalf of others is entitled to receive exceptional monthly or proportional support, corresponding to 100% of the reference remuneration, paid in equal parts by the employer and social security, by each individual entity and directly to the worker, in proportion.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u428	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add a new paragraph 3 to Article 23. that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The value referred to in the previous paragraph adds the payment of the meal allowance, with reference to the value taken by the worker, and may not be less than the value of the meal allowance for the employees of the Public Administration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u429	We moved on to the proposal submitted by the CFP to add a new paragraph 4 to Article 23. that of the aforementioned decree-law. Let's vote for her. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — In cases where the meal was allocated in kind, the insulated worker has the right to perceive its value in cash, and cannot be less than the value of the meal allowance for the employees of the Public Administration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u430	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 23 ( 5 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 5 — The support referred to in this Article shall be automatically given after the employer’s request.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u431	We moved on to the proposal submitted by the CFP to add a new paragraph 7 to Article 23. the same decree. Let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 7 — The allocation of exceptional support as provided for in paragraph 2, does not exempt the full fulfilment of the contribution obligations, to affect the entire reference remuneration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u432	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add a new paragraph 7 to Article 23. that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 7 — In the case of family aggregates with at least one child under 12 years of age, the worker does not lose the right to this exceptional support due to the circumstances of the other parent if he is to perform his activity in telework.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u433	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 23 ( 10 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 10 — The provisions of this Article shall apply to self-employed persons who provide services to one entity, in accordance with Article 140 of the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive System of Social Security, approved by Law No 110/2009 of 16 September 2009 in its current wording, even if they are exempt from contributions to social security, in accordance with and for the purposes of the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive System of Social Security.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u434	We moved on to the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 23 ( 11 ). that of the decree. Let's vote for her. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the CH.]] [[It was as follows: 11 — The provisions of this Article shall apply, with the necessary adaptations, to trainee workers under the measure of professional internships, provided for and regulated in Ordinance No 131/2017 of 7 April 2017, in its current wording.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u435	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 24 ( 1 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — In situations similar to those in Article 22(1), the self-employed person is entitled to exceptional monthly or proportional support, not subject to a guarantee period.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u436	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 24 ( 2 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The amount of support corresponds to 100% of the reference remuneration, determined in accordance with previous articles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u437	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP amending Article 24 ( 2 ). the same decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PCP, PEV, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The amount of support corresponds to two thirds of the monthly contribution base for the first quarter of 2020.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u438	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 24 ( 3 ). that of that decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The support to which the above figures refer has at least one MRMG and no more than three MRMG.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u439	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP amending Article 24 ( 3 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — The support referred to in the previous paragraphs has at least a guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration (RMMG) and by a maximum limit of three MRMMG.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u440	We moved on to the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 24 ( 7 ). o of this Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020. Let's vote for her. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: 7 — The provisions of this Article apply to self-employed persons who are exempt from social security contributions in accordance with and for the purposes of the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive System of Social Security.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u441	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 24 ( 7 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 7 — In the case of family aggregates with at least one child under 12 years of age, the worker does not lose the right to this exceptional support due to the circumstances of the other parent if he is to perform his activity in telework.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u442	We then voted on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 24 ( 8 ). the same decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the CH.]] [[It was as follows: 8 — The provisions of this Article shall apply to individual entrepreneurs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u443	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for the addition of Article 25. -A to the decree-law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 25a Supplement Remuneration Workers who provide services defined as essential in accordance with Decree No 2-A/2020 shall take a remuneration supplement of 20% of the basic salary in respect of the days on which they are effectively engaged, taking into account the exposure to the risk of contact with COVID-19 to which they submit themselves in the performance of their duties.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u444	We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 25. o-B to the decree-law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 25b Automatic extension or renewal The benefits for unemployment, cessation of activity, cessation of professional activity and other social benefits whose period of grant or renewal period expires before the cessation of prevention, containment, mitigation and treatment of the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u445	We now vote on the proposal by the CFP to add Article 25. o-C to the decree-law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[Article 25c Suspension of redundancies 1 — Until the end of measures to prevent, contain, mitigate and treat epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the COVID-19 disease are suspended the termination, in any event, of the permanent work contracts or the right term in implementation at the time of the application of those measures. 2 — The provisions in the previous paragraph shall apply to service provision contracts irrespective of the form they review.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u446	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP amending Article 26 ( 1 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — Extraordinary support for the reduction of economic activity is the form of financial support for workers covered solely by the scheme of self-employed workers and who are not pensioners, in a proven situation of total cessation of their activity or activity in their sector, or in a situation of breakdown of at least 40% of the services to be provided, as a result of the outbreak of VOCID-19, in a situation proven by any means acceptable to law.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u447	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP amending Article 26 ( 1 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP and CH.]] [[It was as follows: 1 — Extraordinary support for the reduction of economic activity is the form of financial support for individual entrepreneurs and workers covered exclusively by the scheme of self-employed workers who are not pensioners, subject to the obligation to contribute within at least 3 consecutive months of at least 12 months that have suffered a reduction of at least 40% in their average income, as a result of the outbreak of COVID-19, in a situation proven by any means admissible in law, of the reduction of at least 40% in their average income.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u448	We shall now vote on the proposal tabled by the NAP amending Article 26 ( 2 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PCP, PEV and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The support referred to in this Article shall be granted automatically after the request of the selfemployed person.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u449	We shall now vote on the proposal tabled by the CFP amending Article 26 ( 3 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the NAP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — During the period of application of this measure, the independent worker is entitled to financial support for a period of one month, which can be extended monthly, up to a maximum of six months, corresponding to the value of the remuneration recorded as a basis of contribution impact measured in accordance with the following paragraph, with a minimum limit of the value of the shareholder indexer and maximum the value of the guaranteed monthly minimum remuneration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u450	We then voted on the proposal by the NAP amending Article 26 ( 3 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the CH.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — During the period of application of this measure, the independent worker is entitled to financial support for a period of one month, which can be extended monthly, up to a maximum of six months, corresponding to the value of the remuneration recorded as a basis of contribution incidence, with the limit of the value of the guaranteed monthly minimum remuneration (RMMG).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u451	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add a new paragraph 4 to Article 26. that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the NAP and the CH.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — The contributory impact base of the workers referred to in the previous paragraph is calculated on the basis of one of the three criteria below, according to the one found to be more favourable to the worker: (a) the contributing incidence base of the first quarter of 2020; (b) the contributing incidence base of the same period in the past year; (c) the average remuneration of the past year.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u452	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 26 ( 8 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: 8 — The provisions of this Article apply to self-employed persons who are exempt from social security contributions in accordance with and for the purposes of the Code of Contributing Schemes of the Preventive System of Social Security.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u453	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP to add a new paragraph 2 to Article 29. that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — The working instruments, in the scheme provided for in the previous paragraph, must be provided by the employer.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u454	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for an addendum to Article 29 ( 3 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — In the event of non-compliance with the previous number, the worker may refuse to perform his duties, without prejudice to his rights and guarantees, in particular with regard to remuneration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u455	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 29 ( 3 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PCP, PEV, CH and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — Workers whose function is not compatible with the performance of the activity under telework and who belong to the risk groups identified by the Directorate-General of Health shall be exempted from the provision of work while proceeding with contingency measures, while maintaining the remuneration.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u456	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 29 ( 4 ). the same decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and IL.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — For the purposes of the previous issue, the worker shall inform his employer in writing of his risk condition.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u457	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for an addendum to Article 29 ( 4 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — Workers under telework maintain all their rights and guarantees, legally, conventionally or contractually stipulated, including the right to all remuneration, allowances and subsidies, even in kind.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u458	We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 31. -A to the decree-law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, ENP and CH.]] [[It was as follows: Article 31a Support to individuals and local authorities for the cleaning of forest biomass 1 — Where appropriate and justified, for reasons related to the epidemic caused by SARS-CoV-2, the need for support by individuals and local authorities to carry out the cleaning work of fuel bands, provided for in Law No 76/2017 of 17 August, the Government shall mobilise the necessary means of the National Defence, for the provision of such support. 2 — Where the support referred to in the previous paragraph is requested and not provided, fines and penalties should be reduced for failure to carry out the cleaning work of the fuel strips provided for in Law No 76/2017 of 17 August by local authorities and individuals. 3 — They shall be excluded from the application of fines and penalties, in accordance with the previous paragraph, for natural persons who are prevented from cleaning the land by virtue of the declaration of the state of emergency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u459	We are now voting on the proposal by the NAP to add Article 31. o-B to the decree-law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PCP, PEV, CH and IL.]] [[It was the following: Article 31(b) of Article 31(b) was the following: Article 31(b) was the following: Article 31(b) The Government, in conjunction with local authorities, ensures in the shortest possible time: (a) the preparation of a specific response response plan close to the elderly population, ensuring the contact, monitoring and support of proximity to persons living alone and/or isolated persons or in a position of vulnerability due to their physical, psychological or other condition, as soon as possible: (a) the preparation of a specific response plan for a specific response plan of proximity to the elderly population, ensuring the contact, monitoring and support for those living alone and/or isolated persons or in a position of vulnerability, whether they live or in a position of their physical, psychological protection associations, animal protection associations, pedago-]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u460	We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 31. o-C to the decree-law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: Article 31c Suspension of banking commissions During the months in force the state of emergency and in the following three months is suspended by credit institutions for the collection of all commissions on online transactions and through brokerage platforms, such as MBWay.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u461	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 31. o-D to the decree-law in appreciation. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[It was as follows: Article 31d Prohibition of the payment of equity and bonus payments by credit institutions 1 — During the years 2020 and 2021, credit institutions to be operated in Portugal which have received public financial support between 2008 and 2020 are prohibited from any forms of shareholder remuneration, in particular through the distribution of dividends, payment or payment of supplies, or repurchasing of shares, and from payment of any variable remuneration component or any bonus, commissions and gratifications, whether or not dependent on performance, to members of their respective management bodies. 2 — In the years 2020 and 2021 the credit institutions referred to in the previous paragraph shall use their net profits to strengthen the own funds base. 3 — The Banco de Portugal shall be responsible for the supervision and supervision of the provisions of the previous paragraphs. 4 — Failure by the institutions covered by the obligations set out in this Article to comply with Articles 211 to 212 of the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, as approved by Decree-Law No 298/92 of 31 December 1992 in its current wording, shall apply to the clearance of their counter-order national liability in respect of the substantive and procedural arrangements provided for in that General Scheme.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u462	We then voted on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 31. o-and to the decree-law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the CH.]] [[It was as follows: Article 31e Exceptional rules relating to the period of interruption of essential services 1 — Supply of electricity, natural gas, channelled LPG and water intended for domestic consumption cannot be interrupted in fact imputable to the customer during the months in which the state of emergency and in the following three months. 2 — Consumers who, depending on the application of the previous number, generate debt to traders are entitled to a fractional payment of the amounts invoiced within 12 months of the end of that period. 3 — For the period laid down in paragraph 1 there shall be no recovery of interest on interest on invoiced to final customers. 4 — The deadlines for prescribing the debt to traders provided for in their own legislation shall be suspended for the period referred to in paragraph 2. 5 — The Government shall carry out in its own diploma the provisions of this Article.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u463	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP to add Article 31. o-F to the decree-law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the CH.]] [[(b) the establishment of a simplified procedure for access to the social tariff of electricity and natural gas for household or natural persons whose income has been significantly reduced as a result of the state of emergency;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u464	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal by the CFP for an addendum to Article 33. -A to the decree-law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the IL.]] [[It was as follows: Article 33A Financing of Exceptional Measures The measures to prevent, contain, mitigate and treat the epidemiological infection by SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19 are financed by the State budget, by making the Government the necessary transfers to social security of the amounts corresponding to the expenditure allocated to it.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u465	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to the overall final vote on the text resulting from the approved amendments to Decree-Law No 10 - A / 2020 of 13 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the IL.]] We moved on to Supplement V, which concerns Parliamentary Assessment No 10 / XIV / 1. the, required by BE, concerning Decree-Law No 10 - J / 2020 of 26 March, establishing exceptional measures for the protection of the credits of families, companies, private institutions of social solidarity and other entities of the social economy, as well as a special system of State personal guarantees in the context of the COVID 19 disease pandemic. Let us begin by voting on the proposal submitted by BE amending Article 2 ( 2 ( a ). that of that decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[2 — (a) the natural persons, in respect of all claims for permanent own housing, including in particular those covered by credit credit credit schemes intended for disabled persons, disabled persons in armed forces, and young persons, who, at the date of publication of this Decree, fulfil all the conditions referred to in paragraphs (c) and (d) of the preceding paragraph, are resident in Portugal and are in situations of isolation of pro prophylactive or sick or sick or are in a situation of isolation or are in a situation of employment or illness or provide assistance to children or grandchildren or grandchildren, as set out in Decree-Law No. Law No. 10-Law No. 10-A/2020 of 13 March, in its current wording, or which have been placed at the reduction of the normal working period or have been placed at reduced by the normal working or suspended working period of the normal working period or working period under Article 26 of Article 26 of that Decree-Law, and persons employed in a state of employment or activity having been employed under the term of establishment or activity;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u466	We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by BE amending Article 4 ( 2 ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 2 — Entities benefiting from the measures provided for in points (b) and (c) of the previous paragraph may at any time request that the suspension of capital refunds be only partial.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u467	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by BE to delete Article 4 ( 3 ( c ). the same decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP amending Article 4 ( 3 ( c ). that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH and IL abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: 3 — (...): (c) Suspension of interest due during the extension period, which will not be capitalised at the value of the loan and cannot represent an increase in costs for the beneficiary entities;]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u468	We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by BE to add a new paragraph 4 to Article 4. that of the decree. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the Member who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the IL.]] [[It was as follows: 4 — The suspension of the interest maturity provided for in paragraph 1 of this Article shall not at any time give rise to its capitalisation in the value of the loan.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u469	We shall now proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 5. -A to the decree-law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] [[It was as follows: Article 5a Support for Social Economic Entities 1 — A funding line is established for Social Economic Entities, including non-profit associations, including private law associations, non-governmental organizations, private institutions of social solidarity and cooperatives, as a way to ensure the necessary financing for the continuation of their tasks. 2 — The Social Economic Entities whose funding depends, in whole or in part, on the approval of projects benefit from an exceptional scheme with regard to the extension of the application deadlines, in particular through the reformulation of the monitoring, reporting or renewal deadlines for ongoing applications, ensuring that the financing and continuity of the projects under development is ensured. 3 — Social Economic Entities are entitled to a non-refundable allowance which has at least three guaranteed monthly minimum wages (RMMG). 4 — The Social Economic Entities are entitled to anticipate the transfer of amounts contracted for co-financed programmes at national and European level.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u470	We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 5. o-B to the decree-law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It was as follows: Article 5b Support to workers of the Social Economic Entities is applicable to workers of private institutions of social solidarity, non-profit associations, including those of private law, and other entities of the social economy the exceptional measures to support the family, as provided for in Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March, as well as extraordinary support measures to maintain employment contracts, as provided for in Decree-Law No 10-G/2020 of 26 March.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u471	We shall then vote on the proposal submitted by BE for the addition of Article 6. -A to the decree-law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] [[It is as follows: Article 6a Reporting duty 1 — Institutions have the duty to disclose and advertise the measures provided for in this Decree-Law on their websites and through regular contacts with their clients. 2 — Institutions shall also be obliged to give full knowledge of all the measures provided for in this Decree before the formalisation of any credit contract where the customer is a beneficiary entity. 3 — The Banco de Portugal shall regulate the forms in which the provision of information provided for in the previous paragraphs is to be carried out. 4 — Failure to comply with the provisions of Article 8(2) of this Decree shall apply.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u472	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by BE for the addition of Article 13. o -A. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: Article 13a Interpretation Standard 1 — The provisions of Article 2(2)(a) shall be interpreted as covering the beneficiaries of the Counsel Box and Applicants who have their respective regularised or regularised contribution status through a performance plan agreed with the Counsel Box and Applicants. 2 — The provisions of Article 2(2)(a) should also be interpreted as covering eligible credit schemes for permanent housing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u473	We shall then proceed to the overall final vote on the text resulting from the approved amendments to Decree-Law No 10 - J / 2020 of 26 March. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We now turn to page 2 of the main script and we will proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 261 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — prohibits dismissal until 31 July 2020 and prevents termination of the contract during the experimental period. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the PAN, BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] We will now vote, in general, the Bill No. 264 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Enlarge, pursuant to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March, the shortcomings justified during the Easter holidays and recognizes the shortcomings for assistance to dependent elderly persons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the NAP, BE, PCP, PEV, CH and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the IL.]] Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 266 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Sets the maximum number of hours per day and per week for workers on telework to assist children and dependents. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 271 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Strengthening of the social security telephone line. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No 273 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amends Decree-Law No 10 - J / 2020 of 26 March by strengthening support for social economy entities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u474	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u475	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u476	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u477	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The general vote of Bill No 274 / XIV / 1 is followed. a ( PAN) — Change Law Decree No. 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March, Law No. 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March, and Law Decree No. 10 - K / 2020 of 26 March, giving greater protection to professionals, families and risk groups in response to the epidemiological situation COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP, ENP, CH and IL.]] We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 277 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — It suspends all public participation and consultation proceedings, while imposing or advising social isolation as a result of the COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 278 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Allowance of assistance to workers under risk, penosity and health conditions. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the NAP and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 279 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Support to fishing workers for the suspension of activity due to COVID-19 through the Salary Compensation Fund for Fisheries Professionals. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstain from BE and CH.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u478	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u479	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u480	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u481	It is duly registered, Mr. Mr Ventura also asks for the floor. To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u482	Mr President, it is for the same purpose. I shall deliver a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u483	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We will then vote on the application, submitted by BE, requesting the general vote on the Bill No 284 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures to respond to the social crisis. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We begin with the general vote on Bill No 284 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures to respond to the social crisis. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PS, the CDS-PP and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] We shall now proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by BE, amending Article 3. the draft law. The Socialist Party requests that Article 2 ( 2 ) ( ( e) and ( f ) be voted on separately. o -A added to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March. If there is no opposition, we will begin by voting on points (e) and (f). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] [[They were as follows: Article 3 Added to Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March (...) ‘Article 2a Guarantee of access to goods of first need (...) (e) Waste water collection and treatment service; (f) Urban solid waste management services.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u484	We shall now vote on the remaining paragraphs of paragraph 1 and Article 2 (2) and (3). o -A added to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD and IL and abstentions from the CDS-PP and CH.]] [[Article 3 of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March Articles 2a, 9a, 9b, 29a and 31a of 13 March are added with the following wording: ‘Article 2a Guarantee for access to goods of first necessity 1 — During the State of Emergency and subsequent month, the supply of the following essential services, as provided for in Article 1(2)(d) of Law No 23/96 of 26 July: (a) Water supply service; (b) Electric power supply service; (c) Natural gas supply service; (d) Electronic communications service; 2 — The suspension provided for in point (d) of the previous paragraph shall apply when motivated by unemployment, loss of income of the family aggregate equal to or greater than 20%, or by infection by COVID-19. 3 — During the duration of this Act, consumers who are in a state of unemployment or with a breakdown of family income equal to or greater than 20 % of the income of the previous month may require the unilateral termination of telecommunications contracts without compensation to the supplier.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u485	We shall now vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to add an article 3. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the abstention of the CH.]] [[Article 3a Extension of the scheme provided for in Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March For the purposes of applying the support provided for in Articles 23 and 24 of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March, are deemed to be equal to the day care centres registered in social security.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u486	We proceed to the vote on the remaining articles of the bill. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] We will now proceed to the comprehensive final vote, with the amendments adopted in the meantime, of Bill No 284 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures to respond to the social crisis. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD and the IL.]] Since there is no requirement to dispense with final drafting, the bill has to go down to committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u487	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u488	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u489	Mr President, it is to request that we be given time until the end of the vote to see what is approved and, therefore, we will be able to verify that we have a joint text with all the articles that will be approved later, yes, we can request a final drafting waiver.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u490	All right. That's how it'll be done. He will then give notice to the Bureau of which is the final decision of the Left Block on this matter. We then proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 286 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes a capital shortage scheme to apply to housing credits. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 290 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Determines the invalidity of acts practiced in violation of the Labour Code rules or other special labour legislation in the period during which exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemic by COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u491	We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 291 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — The simplified layoff regime ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ) becomes more comprehensive. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, doPSD, doBE, PCP, ENP and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and votes in favour of CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 296 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Consecrates the exemption of proof that the COVID-19 disease contracted by workers of essential services and related activities is a necessary and direct consequence of the activity carried out, for the purposes of the application of the occupational disease regime. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 306 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Other Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March, granting an exceptional situation of support to individuals, bridging joints and municipalities for the cleaning of forest biomass in the context of the SARS-CoV-2 epidemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the EAP, the NAP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP and the ENP.]] The general vote of Bill No. 308 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Extends the subjective scope of job protection measures under the COVID-19 pandemic ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, doPSD, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against IL and abstentions from BE, CDS-PP and CH.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 311 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Take protection measures for children and young people at risk. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] We now have the general vote on Bill No. 316 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures the social protection of trainees and IEFP trainees while implementing exceptional measures under COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 319 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Ensures social protection support for workers with precarious employment links in a situation of unemployment, including taxi workers and domestic workers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, doPSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BEE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We now have the general vote on Bill No. 322 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Guarantees social protection for workers of temporary work enterprises who have been fired. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, doPSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BEE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 324 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Extends the limit of extraordinary support for self-employed persons for the reduction of economic activity. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, doPSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BEE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will move on to the general vote of 325 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Reduces the time limit for guaranteeing access to unemployment benefit. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We generally vote for Bill No. 327 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Support for families with dependents to attend private and cooperative educational establishments and the social and solidarity sector of education. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PAN and the CH and abstentions against the EPC, the PEV, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 329 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Regularizes with urgency the precarious links with pending processes under PREVPAP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 332 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthen support measures for homeless people. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, doPSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BEE, the PCP, the PAN and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] The vote on draft resolution No 318 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Measures to support workers, including green receipt workers, within the context of the contingency plan of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, doPSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the EAP, the NAP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the ENP and the IL.]] We will now vote for draft resolution No 327 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends the creation of specific responses from COVID-19 to monitor the elderly population. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, in favour of the EAP, the NAP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP.]] We then vote on the Resolution Project No. 330 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensures the full accessibility of deaf people to the National Health Service Contact Centre ( SNS24 ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, in favour of the EAP, the NAP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 333 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Strengthening the protection of COVID-19 users in the homes of elderly people. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the EAP, the NAP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We will now vote for draft resolution No 335 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government undertake the lifting of the needs and the consequent adoption of response mechanisms in relation to persons in situations without shelter. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, doPSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the EAP, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the IL.]] We voted for Resolution Project No 339 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensures that health professionals, security forces and services professionals and elements of civil protection and workers in the area of urban waste access to personal protective equipment. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, in favour of the EAP, the NAP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 344 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends to the Government an extraordinary review of the objectives serving as evaluation parameters within the framework of SIADAP and private employer assessment systems. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PPSD doBE, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 345 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Strengthening support for health professionals and users in the situation of the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the EAP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH and the IL and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 352 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the elimination of discriminatory barriers of deaf people in access to information and treatment as part of the fight against COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected in favour of the BEP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP and the CDS-PP.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 356 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends to the Government the extension of exceptional support to the family for workers on behalf of others and self-employed during the Easter holidays. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected in favour of the BEE, the NAP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 361 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Establishs the non-applicability of municipal debt limits during the SARS-CoV-2 pandemic and a financial support line for local authorities to implement programmes to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by SARS-CoV-2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, doPSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the EAP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CFP, the CH and the IL.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 363 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support self-employed, informal workers and other precarious workers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, doPSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV, IL and Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the PCP abstention.]] We also voted for Resolution Project No 365 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Protection of the elderly of the SARS-Cov-2 virus in elderly households (including those without alvará). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP and the CH.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 368 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government grant a 20 % remuneration supplement to essential service workers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, doPSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the EAP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CFP, the CH and the IL.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 370 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Support for the social and solidarity sector under the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemiological situation of COVID 19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL and abstentions from the BE, the PCP, the PEV, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 371 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Exceptional and temporary measures to support families with children up to 12 years of age and children with disabilities in the face of the epidemiological situation of COVID 19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, in favour of the CDS-PP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from the BE and the PCP.]] We also voted for Resolution Project No 378 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — The creation of a social crisis supplement ( CSC ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN were rejected, votes against the CH and abstentions against the EPC, the PCP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] The vote on Bill No. 281 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Establishes the extension of the duration of the learning licences. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We now vote on the request by BE for a general vote, speciality and a comprehensive final vote of Bill No 282 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures to respond to the economic crisis. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Thus, we generally vote for Bill No. 282 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures to respond to the economic crisis. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions of the CH and the IL.]] The vote is followed by the vote on the speciality. We begin by voting on a proposal for an amendment tabled by the PS to add an article 3. o -A to the bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the PCP, the PAN, the CH and the IL.]] [[Article 3a Savings Plan Reform (PPR) 1 — Without prejudice to Article 4(1) to (4) of Decree-Law No 158/2002 of 2 July 2002, as long as the state of emergency is in force, the value of the Plans of Savings Reform may be reimbursed in accordance with paragraph 3, up to the monthly limit of the indexer of social support, by the participants of those plans and provided that one of the members of his family is in a situation of prophylactic isolation or illness or provides assistance to children or nets, as set out in Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March, in its current wording, or that he has been placed in a reduction of the normal working period or in suspension of the employment contract, in terms of business crisis, in a situation of unemployment registered in the Employment and Vocational Training Institute, I. P., as well as being eligible for the extraordinary support for the reduction of the economic activity of the independent worker in accordance with Article 2(b) of Article 26 of the Staff Regulations, as defined in terms of the term of employment, shall be extended during the period. 2 — The value of the PPR reimbursed shall correspond to the value of the unit of participation at the date of the request for reimbursement. 3 — For the purposes of this Article, Article 21(4) of the Staff Regulations shall not apply, provided that they have been signed up to 31 March 2020.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u492	We also vote on the remaining articles of the Bill No. 282 / XIV / 1. a. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, doPSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We then proceed to the overall final vote of Bill No 282 / XIV / 1. a, already with the amendments adopted. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 294 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establish extraordinary clauses and mechanisms in public-private road partnerships. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] The general vote of Bill No. 295 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Define contingency measures for food supply. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, doPSD, the CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the Member of Parliament who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] We now vote on the request submitted by the CFP for general vote, speciality and overall final vote of Bill No 297 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — prohibits the interruption of the provision of certain essential services. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] So we move on to additional script VII and we will generally vote on Bill No. 297 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — prohibits the interruption of the provision of certain essential services. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PSD and the abstentions from the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u493	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u494	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u495	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u496	All right, you are duly registered, Mrs Deputy. We will vote, in the specialty, the Bill No. 297 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — prohibits the interruption of the provision of certain essential services. Let us begin by voting on Article 1. this bill. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD and abstentions from CH and IL.]] Let us now vote on Article 2. this bill. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to replace Article 3. this bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions of the NAP and the CH.]] [[Article 3 Debt securities relating to essential services 1 — Where there are debt securities relating to the provision of services referred to in paragraph 1 of the preceding article, a payment plan shall be drawn up. 2 — The payment plan referred to in the previous paragraph shall be defined by agreement between the supplier and the customer and shall start within the second month following the emergency state.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u497	Therefore, the vote on Article 3. He gets hurt. We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to replace Article 4. this bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the abstention of the CH.]] [[Article 4 Entry into force and production of effects 1 — This law shall enter into force on the day following its publication, with effect from 20 March 2020 on all service payments due. 2 — This law shall apply for the period corresponding to that of the State of emergency and in the following month.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u498	Therefore, the vote on Article 4. He gets hurt. We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of Bill No. 297 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — prohibits the interruption of the provision of certain essential services. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD and abstentions from CH and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u499	We will now vote, in general, on Bill No. 298 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — establishes an exceptional and temporary system of maximum prices for liquid fuels. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the NAP and the CH.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 299 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Response to the situation caused by the outbreak of COVID-19 in the fisheries sector. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against the EPP, the CFP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 305 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — It creates mechanisms for the protection of micro, small and medium-sized companies ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March and first amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, in favour of the EAP, the NAP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 307 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Approves measures to guarantee access to essential services by families. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 312 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Strengthens access and control of the use of the support line for the economy CVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 317 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Considers the extraordinary review of electricity and natural gas tariffs and the definition of an exceptional regime for regulatory procedures in the electricity and natural gas sectors. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against the EPC, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the NAP abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 318 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs exceptional and temporary social protection measures for micro and small business managers in a business crisis situation and amends the social support scheme for self-employed persons provided for in Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the EPC, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 320 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amends Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March by strengthening the support given to self-employed and individual entrepreneurs arising from the COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 323 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — extends support to micro and small business partners who are both employees of the company. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall vote on the application, submitted by the NAP, requesting the general vote, speciality and overall finality of Bill No. 326 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Determines limitations on access to online gaming platforms. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us then, in general, vote on Bill No. 326 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Determines limitations on access to online gaming platforms. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] Since there have been no amendments, we will be voting in the specialty on the whole Bill No. 326 / XIV / 1. a. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of Bill No. 326 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Determines limitations on access to online gaming platforms. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 330 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protects aggregates with high income breaks in access to telecommunications in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic crisis. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of the EPC, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 331 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protects aggregates with high income breaks in access to essential services in the context of the pandemic crisis of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of the EPC, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 333 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Safeguarding critical infrastructures, health care units and essential public services, as well as vital economic sectors for the production, supply and supply of goods and services essential to the population. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the EPC, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 336 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — By setting up support mechanisms for the production of agricultural crops. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, doPSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the EAP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CFP, the CH and the IL.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 357 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the strengthening of exceptional measures to support the economy of the Autonomous Regions in order to mitigate the negative effects of the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the ENP were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from BE and the PCP.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 358 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government ensure that maximum price limits of the goods necessary for the prevention and control of the pandemic of COVID-19, including individual protective equipment, biocidal products and medical devices, are fixed. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, PEV and Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP and CH.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 364 / XIV / 1. a ( Nsc. ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support the payment of essential services (water, electricity, natural gas and communications). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of the ESP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 366 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government measures to protect fishery professionals who have ceased activity under the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the PCP were rejected, votes against the BE, the NAP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 372 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends 15 economic and employment support measures to the Government. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of the CDS-PP, the CH and the ILe Abstentions of BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on the application, submitted by the ENP, requesting the general vote, speciality and global final of the Bill No 265 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Alter the Television Law to provide that the public television service ensures stimulating and adequate programming of physical exercise and good nutrition, in case of prolonged social isolation. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Question whether we can vote in general, speciality and global final, simultaneously, of the so-called Bill No 265 / XIV / 1. a. [[Pause.]] No objection, we'll vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSS, BE, PAN and ENP, votes against doPSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions by the PCP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 275 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Suspension of payment for accommodation in university residence while determining the restrictive measures relating to COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 276 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Suspension of payment of propines as long as restrictive measures relating to COVID-19 are determined. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 287 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Exceptional support measures for higher education students. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, doPSD, the CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the Member of Parliament who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 288 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Approves a set of exceptional and temporary measures to safeguard the rights of workers of the National Scientific and Technological System and of scientific, technical and management work. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, doPSD, the CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the Member of Parliament who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 293 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates an emergency social support fund for cultural and artistic fabric. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected and votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and other non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Let us now vote on the application, submitted by the NAP, requesting the general vote, speciality and overall end of Bill No. 309 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Adequacy of the payment of propines in higher education than the exceptional situation of COVID-19. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Question whether we can vote in general, speciality and global final, simultaneously, of Bill No. 309 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Adequacy of the payment of propines in higher education than the exceptional situation of COVID-19. [[Pause.]] No objection, we'll vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP and abstentions of the BE, the CH and the IL.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 314 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Suspension of payment of housing and residence benefits and university accommodation during the emergency period of public health. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CH and the IL.]] We will now vote on a request submitted by BE, requesting the general vote on the draft Law No 328 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures to respond to the crisis in the cultural sector. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Thus, we will begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 328 / XIV / 1. a ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD and CH and abstentions from the CDS-PP and IL.]] We will move on to Supplement VIII, concerning the speciality vote on Bill No. 328 / XIV / 1. a ( BE). Let us begin by voting on Article 1. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We now vote on Article 2. o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL.]] The vote on the proposal by BE for the replacement of Article 11 shall follow. the Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 26 March, as set out in Article 3. the draft Law No. 328 / XIV / 1. a. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the IL and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the CH.]] [[It is as follows: Article 3 Amendment to Decree-Law No 10-I/2020 of 26 March Article 11 Shows promoted by public entities 1 — Public entities, as well as entities financed by public funds, or which promote shows by public funds, promoters of performances covered by this Decree-Law, may apply to contracts concluded and comply with the rules laid down in Articles 2 and 4 of Decree-Law No 10-A/2020 of 13 March in its current wording. 2 —.... 3 — Public entities which have to cancel the performances due to the impossibility of re-assignment thereof may make the advance payment of the price of the commitments previously entered into, and shall apply, in the absence of a contract previously concluded or if it is omitted as regards the time of payment, without prejudice to the provisions of the following paragraph (a) of Article 299(1) of the CCP. 4 — The entities referred to in paragraph 1 shall ensure: (a) the payment of all due values, due to the activity to be cancelled, to all persons, natural or legal, including authors, artists, workers and service providers, by the total amount contracted or planned as if the activity was carried out on the planned date for the purpose; (b) the completion of the contractual process with respect to the commitments already announced, but not yet contractual.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u500	We shall vote on the remaining rules of Article 3. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We now vote on the proposal by BE to replace Article 11. the -A of Decree-Law No 10 - I / 2020 of 20 March, as set out in Article 4. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PSD and the IL and the abstention from the CH.]] [[Article 11 — Intermediate 1 — Where the payments provided for in points (a) and (b) of the preceding Article are made to agents, producers and show companies or any other intermediary, they shall, within ten working days after receiving payment from the contracting public authority, use a value not less than 80% of the amounts received to make the proportional and equitable payment to the employees involved, including authors, artists other professionals and companies who have been hired for the show concerned, without prejudice to the proportional collection of commissions due to them. 2 — In case of reorganization, the payments referred to in the previous paragraph, where they are made to other undertakings or professionals of the show, shall be recorded as a sign and a principle of payment of the benefit to be made on the date on which the performance is rescheduled. 3 — Within 20 days of receipt of the payments, the entities referred to in paragraph 1 shall send to the General Inspection of Cultural Activities proof of the payments made by them and thus demonstrate the criterion used for the proportional and equitable rate of such payments. 4 — For the purpose of monitoring compliance with the obligations laid down in this Article, the contracting entity shall communicate to the General Inspection of Cultural Activities all payments made in accordance with points (a) and (b) of paragraph 4 of the preceding Article on the 10th day following payment.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u501	We shall vote on the remaining rules of Article 4. the draft law. [[Subject to vote, votes against PS, PSD, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, PAN, PEV and MP not registered Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] The vote on Article 5 shall follow. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the ENP and the deputy who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention from the IL.]] We then proceed to the overall final vote of Bill No. 328 / XIV / 1. the, with the amendments adopted in the meantime. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against PSD and CH and abstentions from the CDS-PP and IL.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u502	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u503	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u504	To announce that I will present a declaration of vote on the votes of the previous diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u505	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We're going back to the main script. We begin by voting on draft resolution No 323 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of exceptional measures in higher education and science in the context of the prevention of COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP and CH.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 383 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of extraordinary measures concerning the conclusion of the 2019 / 2020 school year due to the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and CH were rejected, votes against BE, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PCP, PAN and ENP.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 224 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Ensure sickness benefit to 100 % for cases of prophylactic isolation due to infectious disease. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the EPC, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 236 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Alter the right to sickness benefit for cases of prophylactic isolation due to infectious disease, proceeds to 6. the amendment to Decree-Law No 28 / 2004 of 4 February 2004. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the PEV, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstention of the CH.]] Mrs. Members, we will vote on a request by the ENP to request the general vote, in the speciality and overall end of Bill No 258 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Ensures the freeness of the SNS 24 line and, for other services provided by public entities and companies providing public services, imposes alternatives to value added numbers for the consumer/user. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Thus, we generally vote for Bill No. 258 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Ensures the freeness of the SNS 24 line and, for other services provided by public entities and companies providing public services, imposes alternatives to value added numbers for the consumer/user. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, the votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL and the NAP abstentions.]] We moved on to additional script VI. We shall vote on the proposal submitted by the PS to replace Article 1. the draft Law No 258 / XIV / 1. a (PEV). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] [[Article 1 Subject This Act shall adopt an exceptional and temporary measure for suspension of fees due to the use and execution of payment transactions through digital platforms of payment service providers, including homebanking or card-based payment instrument applications, due to the epidemiological situation in the country.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u506	The vote on Article 1 shall therefore be adversely affected. the draft law. We now vote on the proposal by the PS to replace Article 2. the same bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the IL.]] [[It is as follows: Article 2 Impeding the collection of commissions 1 — The collection of fees due for the use and execution of payment transactions through digital platforms of payment service providers, including homebanking or applications with card-based payment instrument, for persons who are in a situation of prophylactic isolation or illness or who provide assistance to children or grandchildren, as set out in Decree-Law No. 10-A/2020 of 13 March, in their current wording, or who have been placed in a reduction of the normal working period or in suspension of the employment contract, due to a business crisis, in a situation of unemployment registered at the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, I. P., as well as for persons who are eligible for extraordinary support for the reduction of the economic activity of self-employed persons, in accordance with Article 26 of that Decree, or are employed by entities whose establishment or activity has been subject to closure during the period of Article 9 of emergency condition, pursuant to the terms of Article 9. 2- In order to benefit from the suspension provided for in this Article, the beneficiary shall send to the payment service provider a document demonstrating the situation under the Covid-19 pandemic containment measures.’]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u507	The vote on Article 2 is therefore detrimental. the draft law. We shall proceed to the vote on Article 3. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the IL and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the PAN.]] We now vote on the proposal by the PS to amend Article 4. the draft law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] [[This Act shall take effect until 30 June 2020.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u508	The vote on Article 4 is detrimental. the draft law. The overall final vote of Bill No. 258 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Ensures the freeness of the SNS 24 line and, for other services provided by public entities and companies providing public services, imposes alternatives to value added numbers for the consumer/user. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL.]] Again, we move on to the main script. We begin by voting, in general, the Bill No. 280 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — COVID-19- Creates a free line of support for the population to promote mental health. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, votes against the EPC, the CFP, the NAP, the ENP, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and CH abstentions.]] We proceed to the general vote of Bill No 283 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Emergency measures to respond to the pandemic crisis. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, doPSD, the CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the Member of Parliament who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 289 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establish exceptional measures to strengthen the response of the National Health Service in the treatment of patients with COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the NAP and the CH.]] We proceed with the general vote of Bill No. 300 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Suspension of contributions to the case of lawyers and applicants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We now vote, in general, the Bill No. 301 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Ensures that screenings are carried out throughout the national territory at COVID-19 as a strategy for the prevention and containment of the disease. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP abstentions.]] The general vote of Bill No. 302 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Adopts protection measures to lawyers and applicants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the PSD were rejected, in favour of the EAP, the NAP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PCP, the CDS-PP and the ENP.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 310 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Takes measures to protect and support lawyers and applicants. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u509	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u510	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u511	Mr President, it is to be announced that for Bills Nos. 300, 302 and 310 and draft resolution No. 353, I will present a declaration of vote on my behalf and on behalf of the Socialist Party Members Joana Sá Pereira, Tiago Estêvão Martins, Miguel Costa Matos, Rui Pacheco and Olavo Câmara.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u512	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed with the general vote of Bill No 313 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Determines the temporary suspension of shareholder remuneration and the payment of bonuses to administrators. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP and the ENP, and abstentions against the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We will generally vote for Bill No. 321 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Limits the collection of interest rates and bank fees by credit institutions ( First amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - J / 2020 of 26 March ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, doPSD, the CDS-PP and IL were rejected, votes against BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PEV and the Member of Parliament who did not register Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] [[Pause.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 276 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Preventive measures necessary for the country to be prepared in case of epidemics and pandemics. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, CH and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP abstentions.]] Then we will vote on the Resolution Project No. 353 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of an exceptional social protection scheme for lawyers/as and applicants/as in the context of the fight against COVID-19. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and IL and votes against BE, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 369 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Recommends that the Government pursue the adoption of protective measures for persons present in prison establishments. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CH were rejected, votes against BE, PAN, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP, CDS-PP and ENP abstentions.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 373 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — Immediate payment of State debts to taxpayers, suppliers or partners. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PSD and the ENP were rejected, votes against the NAP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstains from BE, PCP and CDS-PP.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 374 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — For a tax incentive for the payment of income. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CH and IL, and abstentions to the CDS-PP were rejected.]] We proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 375 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — By the immediate exemption from the payment of TSU and IRC for public persons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CH and IL, and abstentions to the CDS-PP were rejected.]] We will vote for draft resolution No 376 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — By the immediate exemption from the payment of TSU, IRS, VAT and IMI for natural persons. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN and ENP were rejected, votes against the CH and IL, and abstentions against the CDS-PP and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We proceed with the vote on draft resolution No 377 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — The suspension of taxes and charges on essential services. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the CH and IL and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the PAN were rejected.]] We now vote on the Resolution Project No. 379 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — The implementation of support and containment centres for patients with COVID-19 in existing infrastructures, as well as the creation of a free line of support for all homes of elderly people and healthcare homes to operate. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected, votes against the PAN, CH and IL and abstentions against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the next vote will be the last of this long marathon today. We will vote for draft resolution No 382 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — By disseminating epidemiological data in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PCP and ENP abstentions.]] Mrs Inês de Sousa Real asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u513	Mr President, it is to clarify, if it has been wrongly registered, that the NAP voted against draft resolution No 376 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) and Bill No. 298 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ). I would also like to say that the NAP will present a statement of vote on draft resolution No 364 / XIV / 1. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u514	It is duly registered, Mrs. Mr. João Paulo Correia had also asked for the floor. Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u515	Mr President, it is to submit a request for a waiver of the final wording and the time limit for the complaint against inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u516	What project are you talking about, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u517	I am referring to all the diplomas that have been approved, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u518	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u519	Our request is also in the sense that, if possible, of everything that has been approved and is related to the bills, a single decree is drawn up, then, in the public consultation, to be more perceptible. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u520	Mr President, the Bureau fully understands the intention, and it remains to be aware of the feasibility of this second claim. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is no objection, we shall vote on this oral request from the PS. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] There is no opposition from any political force present in the Chamber, so we will proceed. Everything will be done so that this can be done, because the drafting economy is fully understood, let us say so, for the intended purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u521	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u522	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u523	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on all the draft resolutions in which we have abstained.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u524	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Ventura asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u525	Mr President, it is only to say that, without opposing the PS requirement at all, it does not seem to me to be of very valid legality. In any case, I would also like to announce that the Arrival will present a declaration of vote on draft resolutions Nos 382 / XIV / 1. a, 377 / XIV / 1. a and 376 / XIV / 1. a.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u526	Mr. André Ventura, it is registered. Mrs. Members, in fact, the elements of the Bureau have many doubts that it is feasible, even if there is no final drafting, to join such a dispersed matter in a single normative document. But since there was no explicit opposition from any force, do-CL will do everything possible for it to be so. It is not possible, it is approved what is approved, what is rejected is rejected, and so it will be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u527	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u528	Ask the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u529	Mr President, it is to try to help in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u530	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u531	Mr President, although there is no formal final drafting phase, all parliamentary groups will have the final decree and all will be able to oppose it or not. Therefore, the issue will always be resolved by this way.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-04-08.u532	Of course I do. It is a good way to solve this problem and so on. With no further requests for intervention, I would like to thank everyone on behalf of the Bureau for their cooperation in this long-term voting session and to wish you to continue on a good day. The next plenary session will be on day 16, for 15 hours. We all wish for good health, as well as for your families. The session is closed. [[It was 21 hours and 25 minutes.]]
