ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we enter our agenda today, Mrs.Secretariat Sofia Araújo will report on the file. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by the President of the Assembly of the Republic, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Bill Nos 210 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Establish the impermenability of the property itself of permanent housing ( amends the Civil Procedure Code, approved by Law No 41 / 2013 of 26 June 2013 ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; 211 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Review the sanctioning regime applicable to crimes against animals, which falls to 1. the Commission ; 212 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — prohibits the occurrence of night civil flights, except for emergency landings or other accessible reasons, which falls to 11. the Commission in connection with 6. the Commission ; and 213 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — adopts standards for the protection of the consumer of financial services for housing credit, credit for consumption and use of electronic platforms operated by third parties, which falls to 5. the Commission. They also entered, and were admitted, the Resolution Projects Nos. 258 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government re-qualify EN 225, which falls to 6. the Commission, and 259 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — By increasing support for Integrated Continued Care Units, which falls to 9. the Commission. In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary. Mrs. Members, we can start our agenda today, whose first point is the assessment of draft resolution No 88 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends that the Government assign to the Ombudsman the role of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal together with, in general, Bills Nos 99 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Fourth amendment to Law No 2 / 2008 of 14 January ( regulates admission to magistrates, training of judges and the nature, structure and functioning of the Centre for Judicial Studies ), providing compulsory training for judges on the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and 175 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates an observatory in the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth to monitor compliance with the obligations imposed by the Convention on the Rights of the Child ( Second Amendment to Decree-Law No 159 / 2015 of 10 August 2015 ) and with Draft Resolution No 204 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Recommends the establishment of a National Committee on the Rights of the Child in compliance with the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Children and the Convention on the Rights of the Child. To present the PSD initiatives, Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we re-examined the discussion of a subject that has already been discussed in this House several times, particularly in December 2017, in October 2018, in January 2019 and now again in 2020. Let's see if that's what we've been able to reach some consensus. I recall that the Convention on the Rights of the Child has already been ratified by Portugal in 1990, that is, 30 years ago, being the most important issue, because we are talking about the rights of children. This is a recommendation of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Children that has not yet been met by our country because of the lack of consensus among the parties sitting in this House, and it is essential that Portugal have mechanisms to monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. It is precisely for these reasons that the PSD brings this issue back to debate and presents a draft resolution that recommends to the Government that it entrust the Ombudsman with the role of coordinating and monitoring the Convention on the Rights of the Child. If, on the one hand, it is unacceptable that, in Portugal, no entity is still monitoring the Convention on the Rights of the Child, on the other hand, it is even more incomprehensible that in Portugal there is an entity with constitutional consecration which has competence in this matter, but that it is simply not assigned to it and that, on the other hand, each party in this House understands that these tasks must be granted to a different entity. We've been in this for years! If there is a Ombudsman with a statute that assigns him or her functions as an independent national institution, monitoring the application of treaties and international human rights conventions, when to that end he or she is designated, if the Ombudsman already has concerns about the rights of children, in particular he or she already has an Assistant Provider dedicated to children, why create new bodies, how do other parties defend themselves? Why create new committees? Why create observatories? Why create other new entities, if we have an entity competent to perform these functions in Portugal? Furthermore, whether the current Provider or the former Provider are unanimous in understanding that this entity has competence and that this is the best instance for this purpose. Furthermore, the Ombudsman has already accompanied other international treaties and conventions. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us also bring to the discussion another recommendation from the United Nations Committee, which deals with the need for the application of the principles and values of the Convention in national jurisprudence. In view of the above, we argue that in the course of training for entry into judicial courts there is a legal component that affects the Convention on the Rights of the Child and, given its importance, this matter must be taken as a mandatory part of the continuing training of judges. In view of all this, the importance of the issue and its urgency, the PSD could not fail to raise this debate and vote again, presenting this legislative initiative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u5	To present the NAP initiative, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Convention on the Rights of the Child, of which Portugal is a party, has recently completed 30 years of existence and is a very important international instrument which sets out a broad set of fundamental rights of all children and various mechanisms for their implementation to be a reality. However, and despite the many progress made, over 30 years we well know that much is still to be done to ensure that the rights of children are fully guaranteed in our country. One of these tasks is precisely the one brought here today by the NAP, the Left Block and the PSD and the need to proceed with the creation of an entity which has the competence to monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, something which has been subsequently recommended by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child and by the Portuguese Committee for UNICEF over the years. The NAP proposal, fulfilling what is in its Electoral Programme, provides a solution to ensure the effective use of existing specialized structures and assigns the competence to monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child to an observatory operating within the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth. We do so, and in this respect our project is different from the others, because it is clear today that this structure already assumes related competences with this new one that we want to assign to it, such as planning, monitoring and evaluation of a national strategy for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and in addition, it has enormous technical knowledge of these issues that should not be wasted. We understand that here we differ in how we implement our proposal, for example, to the PSD proposal, which refers to the Ombudsman, and although we understand the goodness of this initiative, we believe that the expertise and technicality of this existing structure can give a different answer. However, we also understand that, in the field of expertise, we will be able to work to understand the most just solution that aims to achieve the greatest guarantee of monitoring, and that is what we have a broadly consensual position on this. I therefore think that we speak for all when we say that today, what we are discussing is whether or not we want an entity that monitors whether or not the Portuguese State properly fulfils its obligations under the Convention and the creation of a mechanism that enables the definition of more effective public policies to promote the rights and protection of children and young people. The NAP proposal is therefore the only one that we intend to move towards solving the problem, which does not seek to add it, leaving to the government the regulation of this matter, and does not seek the Assembly of the Republic to abdicate its powers and "pass the ball" to the Government. There is a political will for the Assembly of the Republic, with the approval of the NAP proposal, to be able to move forward in building a consensus solution to the problem and finally comply with the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Children and of the Portuguese Committee for UNICEF. It is that, along with these instruments, we cannot forget other important commitments, such as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and that not leaving anyone behind implies not leaving those who, in their vulnerability, in particular the vulnerability resulting from childhood, end up being forgotten by the public policies of our Government. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u7	To present the draft resolution of BE, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Convention on the Rights of the Child, adopted by Portugal in 1990, almost 30 years ago, constituted a fundamental framework for the promotion of a wide range of children's rights and the assumption that these are a maximum responsibility for democracy. But this Convention has to serve for more than simply invoke dates; it has to serve for the clear assumption that the rights and freedoms defined there are fundamental rights and, as such, must serve for its fulfilment and effective implementation. When we continue to have in Portugal, for example, children with disabilities who are not available the conditions necessary for their full development, children in situations of poverty and deprivation of essential goods, children in custody of the State, children in institutions and those who are denied, for example nationality or a visa or residence permit, and those who are consequently denied access to fundamental rights, when we know all this we realize how far we are still so far from ensuring to all children the rights of participation, survival, development and non-discrimination which Portugal has undertaken to guarantee on that day 21 November 1990. The United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Children has repeatedly warned of the absence in Portugal of a national strategy and coordination for the implementation of children's rights. The Portuguese Committee for UNICEF also recommends the establishment of an entity for child and youth affairs to coordinate and monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Children in Portugal. The scope of this Convention is vast, reports to a very broad set of life dimensions and goes far beyond that which is the protection of children and young people in danger of the competence of the National Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Children. What we are talking about here is an entity that goes beyond the reaction to complaints or complaints and that has the competence and responsibility to carry out the monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of the Convention, which is equipped with the means and conditions for proactive intervention in the defence and implementation of the global rights of children, through the proposal of a national strategy and the development of concrete public policies, as well as for their monitoring. For all this, the Left Block proposes strict observation of the recommendation of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Children, which is the establishment of a national committee on the rights of the child, independent, with the priority task of defining a strategy for the implementation of those rights and for its monitoring, monitoring and evaluation of its implementation. We know that the committee for the protection of children and young people in danger had its name changed and its allegedly extended powers to cover situations beyond the situations of children in danger, but we well know that the problem is that this committee is not even equipped with means and conditions to intervene and adequately respond to the protection needs of these children. We are well aware of the weaknesses and inadequacies of the child and youth protection committees ( CPCJ ), so we want to extend the competences of an entity which does not have the conditions, even in order to respond adequately to situations for which it was originally created is announced tragedy, and the same applies to the Ombudsman. The UN Committee's recommendation is to create an independent entity, and that is why the Left Block proposes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u9	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are talking about this noble international document, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, and how best to monitor and monitor. Portugal was in the front line when it ratified and was in the front line when it ratified optional protocols relating to the sale of children, prostitution and child pornography and the participation of children in armed conflicts. To ensure the universality of children's rights, we have come to define a rigorous, demanding, legal and institutional framework that ensures the integral development of children, especially against all forms of abandonment, discrimination and oppression and against the abusive exercise of authority in the family and other institutions. In 30 years of the Convention, the lives of children have been transformed around the world. Today, children are not only small people, but people with inalienable own rights. Michelle Bachelet, United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, speaks of the progress made at this level in reducing poverty, reducing the number of children who do not attend school, reducing the infant mortality of Portugal as an example. However, children remain the main victims of forced labour and are subject to new risks associated with climate change and cybercrime. In Portugal, it has already been said, it is up to the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth, with powers extended by the 2015 Decree-Law, to monitor and evaluate the national strategy for the application of children's rights by collecting and treating relevant statistics. However, what the PSD and the Left Block propose is that these powers should be transferred to another body, to Provedoria, or to create a new body, a national committee. From now on, in our view, this translates a duplication of structures, a waste of resources and a great dispersion of work. The NAP project has fewer inadequacies, but it seems unnecessary to us in view of the work in progress and which I will talk about. As regards the integration of these contents into the formation of judges, it seems to us that redundancy, although it is never too much to strengthen training in the context of complex and serious criminality competences, such as racism, domestic violence or violence against children. Finally, I wanted to say that you have completed the public consultation of the National Strategy for the Rights of Children 2019 - 2022, which will be accompanied by a committee to monitor this Convention. Therefore, the instrument is created, the public consultation is done, let us let the work under way decorate normally, in defense of the child's best interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u11	You now have the floor for an intervention by the ENP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is difficult to have a more consensual theme than that of children's rights. In theory, we are all concerned with their development and well-being, in the discourses and projects presented we always see good will and determination. On the Green side, we associate ourselves with such broad consensus on the need to monitor and monitor the implementation of the International Convention on the Rights of Children in our country, but not without pointing out the hypocrisy of those who cry crocodile tears by children when they do everything to prevent the freeness of education from daybreak, which is central to the realization of these rights, to the highest levels of education. Not without remembering that the rights of children are effective in guaranteeing access to health, with all that is to be done, as the delay in the construction of the pediatric wing of Hospital de S. João, in Porto, delay in the responsibility of some who now make these proposals. Not without mentioning that much of the rights of children will be guaranteed by the living and working conditions of the parents, and that we do not forget those who prevent the reduction of working hours for 35 hours, which would allow parents to be with their children, or those who vote against the increase in the national minimum wage and those who propose unworthy increases for employees of the Public Administration, which would allow them to respond to the many needs of children. We will also not fail to point out that before new structures are created it is necessary to guarantee human, financial and technical means to existing structures, in particular the protection committees for children and young people, which, as it is known, continue without any technical expertise, thanks to the availability of other entities. However, in July 2019, the Greens draft resolution which referred to the need to strengthen the capacity of these committees was rejected in this House. We will also have to note that some of those who express concern today are the same ones that do not contribute to the right of children to a world of peace, this important and central right, to feed the policies that give rise to wars where children are the first victims. Yes, we know the reports that tell us we are stepping up, despite what has been going on in recent years. We know that this is unacceptable, particularly because what is lacking is political will and not means, because if children lived in a bank there would be a lot of money for them. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u14	You now have the floor for an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has at various times spoken about the need to create an institutional space that promotes and accompanies the defence of the rights of children in Portugal, which fills gaps that still persist today and that the competences attributed to the National Commission for the Promotion of Rights and Protection of Children and Youth do not fill. That is, gaps in the need for an integrated diagnosis, integrated analysis of existing data and indicators, monitoring of public policies and their impact on the lives of children in our country. We have put forward proposals for this at various times. In fact, it is important to remember that in the past Parliament within the framework of 1. the Commission was set up a working group containing the proposal of the CFP for the establishment of the National Committee on the Rights of Children and Youth. in this working group, we carefully and in detail discussed all these matters, were conducted hearings, opinions and opinions were requested. This is therefore an issue on which a work has been done which cannot fail to be mentioned in today's discussion on the legislative initiatives we are considering. We must also point out that, on this subject, there is still a proposal for a law from the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, approved unanimously, which, despite the various demands of the CFP for it to be integrated into the discussion of that then, in the working group, has never happened. Obviously, this was not the proper way to treat this legislative initiative or to respect the legislative body concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u16	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u17	On the initiatives under discussion today, I would like to make a few comments. The NAP presents a proposal for the creation of an observatory under the dependence of the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth, but we believe that this entity should be autonomous. The National Commission already has few means to fulfil the set of competences and functions assigned to it and its priority should be the protection of children at risk. This is our understanding and, in fact, many of the CPCJs in the country show well the lack of human, material and financial resources. That is why it does not seem to us that the creation of an entity in the dependence of the National Commission is the solution. The PSD brings the debate to two proposals on which the CFP has already had an opportunity to speak. As regards the proposal for the inclusion in law of the obligation of the ECJ ( Centre for Judicial Studies ) to incorporate an area of study that affects the Convention on the Rights of the Children, it should be recalled that the final ECJ study plan of 2019 / 2020 already specifically covers this area, so this proposal seems unnecessary and redundant to us. In addition, it would also have been useful for the ECJ to have spoken on this matter, which did not happen. As for the proposal to confer on the Ombudsman competences in the field of children's rights, we believe that this entity must have competences in matters of supply in the area it is responsible for. We must not fill the Ombudsman's Office with powers behind competence, even at the risk of creating difficulties for the Ombudsman himself so that he can perform his duties accordingly. We have in Portugal the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth and, in the view of the CFP, it is important that there is an autonomous institutional entity that is a permanent and continuing space of analysis on childhood.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u18	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u19	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we will continue to intervene in this direction and that, of course, if any of these initiatives fall to the specialty, we will be here to make that contribution. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u20	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I also consider it absolutely essential to respect and implement the Convention on the Rights of the Child and to strengthen this with the implementation and investment of an autonomous entity. But I remember it's useful that there's a huge coherence. It is incoherent that we should be regular, legislating and encouraging that there is an investment in defending the interests and rights of children as if they were an entity separate from the family. So there must also be a huge incentive to increase the national minimum wage. There must be a huge incentive to regulate real estate speculation, which effectively guarantees housing for all families, especially children.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u22	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u23	Yes, Mr. President. It is also necessary to invest in the existence of funded children and it is useful to look at this as an entity related to others, particularly in combating domestic violence.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u24	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to realize that this is indeed a matter of Portugal, since, in terms of the protection of the rights of children and what needs to be done, Portugal has been late. Still, we need to look at the projects that are on the table and that the PAN and the Left Block bring us again: they are very similar projects in everything that means having more institutions. In fact, one of them even proposes the creation of an observatory in the national committee, and another recommends the establishment of a national committee. They say: « pay, which is why you are here! Create more institutions, more bodies, more committees! That's why we're still here! Do not keep on seeking. ” The Portuguese continue to look at this and to think that this Parliament does the same every day: « create new institutions for us to pay new employees ». It's just that, in fact, then, these employees serve very little. We already have a Provedoria of Justice — indeed, we have an excellent Provider of excellent quality — who can perfectly assume the functions of monitoring, monitoring, monitoring, everything that has to do with the protection of children's rights. What do we have here again? The PAN and the Left Block said: « We will increase the state even more. How is the state so small and how does the Portuguese pay so little, why not increase it more? » By the way, why not put more employees in these bodies as well? Oh, my God! That is, in fact, very symptomatic of what we are doing here. Mr President, I conclude by saying that, in fact, more and more, in this House, there is a clear division between two life and society options: one, which thinks we should have fewer taxes and less state; another, which thinks that we should always increase the taxes of the Portuguese, with more and more state, and, in most cases, with institutions that do not serve anything at all. Explain this to the Portuguese, for that is what they need to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u26	For a second intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u27	Mr. President, I confess to being unbelievable when I hear...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u28	Madam Member, please excuse me for interrupting you. Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP is calling for the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u29	Mr President, normally each party has the right to speak before the second speeches are made.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u30	Sir, you're right. But, as there was no CDS registration in the table and there was already a second inscription by the PAN...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u31	Mr. President, I had registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u32	Mr Telmo Correia, now I would like to congratulate you on your election to the President of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, a position which you have already taken in an earlier Parliament. I would therefore like to congratulate you on behalf of the Bureau. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Mr President, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u33	Mr. President, thank you for your compliments. But I do not want to take any benefit or benefit from that fact, nor from that election. Turning directly to the subject we have on the table, I would like to say the following: this topic of the International Convention on the Rights of the Children is very important. This is a question which, in my opinion, is quite beneficial if we do not turn it into anything else, i.e. if we are on the subject which concerns the Convention, rather than becoming a concern which we certainly have with different political positions on the situation of the country in general about the investments that are or are not made, and which may even result in something curious, which we have heard in this debate. I am referring, for example, to the speech of Mrs Green's Member of the Green Party. It is that those who vote the Budgets and who are responsible for whether or not there are pediatric wings, whether there are or not investments, are the first ones who come here, then complain that there is no investment in the country for our children and that this is a very serious problem. We are going to the Convention and what is on the table: the protection of children. As has been said here, well, children are more vulnerable than the common citizens, the same happening, moreover, with the older citizens, and therefore must have special protection. from a criminal point of view, they are still victims of absolutely abominable crimes, such as trafficking in human beings, child prostitution, child pornography, cybercrime, as has already been mentioned here by several benches. So what is at stake here is how we can ensure that this Convention, which aims to protect the rights of children, is better applied in our country. I wanted to say that the CDS is also the author of a project on this subject, which did not drag into this discussion — we hope to be able to join the discussion in the specialty — which is largely consistent with that of the PSD. We defend the formation of those who have the capacity to decide, particularly the judges, the judicial magistrates, like what happened, for example, to the issue of domestic violence, in which it was necessary to realize that it was necessary for judges to have training to interpret, understand and correctly implement decisions against this scourge. The same is said about children. Another question is whether or not we should have a body monitoring this same Convention. The CDS believes that yes, it is important that there is a follow-up, it believes it is important that such follow-up is done not directly by the Government, but by an independent body, with all the characteristics of independence that an body may have. Within the proposed solutions, hoping that there will be a solution, we will draw closer to the solution proposed by the Democratic Social Party, that is, to be an existing institution with evidence given, such as the Ombudsman, to assume that same responsibility. This does not mean that there is no availability for discussion of all solutions on the table. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that this matter must be consensual and must be consensual. It makes all the sense! If the Assembly of the Republic cannot be consensual when the protection and application of an international convention for the protection of children is concerned, then it will be consensual in what? Let us therefore hope that, without committee, it will be possible to consensualize on this matter in order to protect children, which, of course, we believe must continue to be the best in the world. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u34	Now, yes, for a second intervention, you have the floor of Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, on behalf of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I recently had the opportunity in my first speech to make the gap between the NAP proposal and the PSD proposal. For the NAP, there is indeed a proximity at the level of the National Commission for the Protection of Children and Youth that we consider more conducive to better monitoring of this matter than by the Ombudsman itself. With all the goodness and all the merit that this institution has, it is not the same, because it has purely recommendive powers and has no executive and concrete powers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u36	What about the money? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u37	With regard to Mr. André Ventura's concern, I cannot fail to mention that, contrary to populist speeches, the NAP is here to look after the best interests of the child. There is, in fact, money and investment for the protection of children and young people. In that regard, we did not inhibit ourselves. What we have found is that, when we vote and when we approve proposals which aim to enshrine concrete measures to protect children, everyone is already concerned about the charges or the multiplication of structures, a position that we do not understand or follow. With regard to the CPCJ, there is indeed a deficit in funding. The NAP argues that there is a strengthening of the means, but that is another debate that will necessarily have to be at another time. But, Mr. André Ventura, we do not give to the peditorial of populist and incendiary discourses about children's rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u38	To close this debate, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa has the floor for an intervention, which, as you know, has two more minutes in addition to the 16 seconds shown in the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate has shown that we all share the same concern about children's rights. We all want to respond to a need which is urgent and enables the implementation and monitoring of the International Convention on the Rights of the Children in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in agreement with the objectives, but we are in the way. Despite due respect for the positions of the House, we believe that the best solution is the solution presented by the PSD, giving the Ombudsman this competence provided for in the Convention. This is the most adjusted solution, is the right solution, is the most appropriate solution to the fulfilment of international obligations on children's rights. And why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? For three orders of reason. Firstly, because this solution does not require the creation of new bodies, the approval of new organic laws, the allocation of new human and technical resources or the duplication of functions or bodies. More important than that, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this solution allows the use of existing knowledge, the use of the natural vocation and capacity already installed in the Ombudsman's Office. For us, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the main reason. We cannot, we do not even have the right to waste skills, legal knowledge, technical, social sensibility and capacity, because fortunately they already exist; they are in the Ombudsman's Office, and we want to take advantage of them and strengthen them. And if that is not yet enough for you, we understand that this is a matter that must be dealt with by an independent body, such as the Provedoria, and with total autonomy vis-à-vis the government. What is it, then, ladies and gentlemen? Members, the drawback or the contraindication of our initiative? None! On the contrary, this is the solution that is also defended by the Provedoria itself, either by the current Provider or by the former Provider. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the appeal we make, on behalf of the children, is that they will enable our solution. This solution is good for the country, it is good for children and responds to what is necessary for proper compliance with international obligations in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u40	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us begin the second item on our agenda, which is from the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 148 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Establishs the timetable for the institution, in particular, of the administrative regions during the year 2021 and 220 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — Preparation of procedures for the establishment of administrative regions. To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Regionalization is, in fact, a long-awaited imperative that the country needs and which is required to strengthen democratic life, to ensure a coherent and efficient public administration, to create conditions for the development of the most disadvantaged regions, respecting and preserving municipal autonomy. The CFP has allocated this debate with a clear and assumed objective: we want this debate to come out of a decision by the Assembly of the Republic to move forward with regionalisation, so that the process of setting up the administrative regions can be completed in 2021, on the date of the actual elections. We could have brought to this debate all the proposals of the CFP for each of the issues that need to be decided. We could have brought to the discussion the proposals with the plan regions we defend, such as our proposals for bodies in the administrative regions and their tasks and competences. That was not our decision, because this debate should not even be made in a hurry. It must be done in time for the discussion to be extended and as wide as deep in Portuguese society. The debate we are doing today is what enables the Assembly of the Republic to take the decision to move forward with the process, establishing a timetable for the hearings to be made and for the decisions to be taken. We are convinced that there is no reason why regionalisation should be delayed. After the statements we have heard over the years and, above all, the statements made, and repeated, in recent times of love for regionalization, from the most diverse political and partisan quadrants, we are even convinced that tomorrow's approval of the draft resolution of the CFP will allow us to take this first step that has taken so long. The prejudices against regionalisation have long been overcome and their need has become evident. What is at stake is not only the fulfilment of a constitutional imperative for the creation of the regional level in the administration of the State, it is truly the creation of an instrument to combat regional inequalities and asymmetries, to realize the balanced and harmonious development of the country and to deepen democracy with the possibility of controlling political decisions by the people to whom they are addressed. What we are talking about is the possibility of defining, at regional level, the development strategy that is intended to be pursued, as well as establishing priorities for investment and mobilisation of resources for compliance, with decisions taken in each region by bodies elected by the people before whom they respond. Even its deductors recognize the meaning and importance of regionalization for effective decentralization and for the delayed adequacy of the administration of the State and its services. Effective and sustained decentralization is inseparable from the institution in particular of the administrative regions. In addition to constitutional imperative, its implementation is also a condition for three essential objectives of a decentralising policy: to give consistency to a clear delimitation of tasks and competences between the various levels of administration (central, regional and local); to create conditions for a regional development policy with the active participation of the authorities and economic and social actors; and finally to ensure the defence of the autonomy of the local power. Although the creation of administrative regions has been a constitutional imperative since 1976, the truth remains to be realized. The CFP initiative proposes that there should be no error or delay in the implementation of this plan. The proposed timetable is clear and understandable in the criteria it adopts. By the end of the first half of 2020 the proposal for two possible maps for the specific creation of the administrative regions must be submitted to the municipal assemblies: one based on the creation map approved by Law No 19 / 98 of 28 April and referred to a referendum, and one corresponding to the five plan regions today corresponding to the areas of the Regional Coordination and Development Committees ( CCDR ). By the end of 2020, municipal assemblies should send the outcome of the debate, deliberations or opinions which they intend to issue in concrete terms. In the first half of 2021, the Assembly of the Republic must assume the responsibility of approving the law on the creation of administrative regions and the proposal for a referendum to be convened in the second quarter of 2021. The election of the bodies of the administrative regions shall take place on the due date for the elections of the local authorities in 2021. This proposal ensures that there is an extensive and comprehensive public debate, corresponding to the relevance of the matter, fulfilling the legal and constitutional process. And it clearly assumes the objective that regionalisation should be achieved. The position of the CFP is clear: what the country needs, in order to develop in a balanced, coherent and harmonious manner, is the specific institution of the administrative regions. There is no more or less approximate sequence of regionalization that can achieve the same purposes. cyclically there have been initiatives that only in the intentions approach attempts to advance the process of regionalization, one due to lack of concrete content in this sense, others because they persist only in presenting solutions based on the limits of deconcentration. However, the truth is that there is no substitute for regionalization that serves the country and the objectives of national development. The false solutions to the so-called democratisation of the CCDRs or the process of transferring powers and competences to local authorities are clear examples of this. The challenge is launched and the proposal of the CFP presented. The Assembly of the Republic today has the opportunity to discuss and tomorrow to decide on the progress of the process of setting up the administrative regions. We will see who is on the side of regionalisation. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u42	They signed up to ask Mr João Oliveira for clarification. Members Jorge Paulo Oliveira and Raul Castro. How does Mr. João Oliveira intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u43	Individually, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u44	So you have the floor, first of all, to make your request for clarification, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u45	Mr President, Mr. João Oliveira, we have repeatedly stated in this House that the PSD has always had a reformist view of the state, based on a decentralized public administration. We are therefore available to discuss all, I repeat, all models of state organization, including regionalization. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not do it at any cost or at any price. They do not count on us to discuss proposals that correspond to partial solutions, hooded or that lead us to a country at two speeds; much less they contain us to discuss proposals that do not presuppose the conduct of a national referendum. We are available for a serious, enlightening and unprecipitated debate. It was precisely for this purpose that in the previous legislation we gave the exit to carry out an in-depth study on the subnational organization of the State, with the creation of the Independent Commission for Decentralisation, a proposal which, it is recalled, had the votes against the PCP, the Left Block, the Green Party and the PAN. [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] It is not possible to have a serious and enlightening debate on regionalisation without having previously been duly studied by experts, and this step has been taken. But it is also not possible to have a serious and enlightening debate if the Portuguese do not have all the information that allows them to have an accurate understanding of the meaning and implications of the creation of administrative regions. in this context, I ask the PCP to defend the reformulation of the Framework Law of the Administrative Regions in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u46	Answer me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u47	I ask the CFP what the governance system of the administrative regions it recommends, whether it is with or without the protection of the government. I also ask the CFP what the regional electoral system model it defends, i.e. whether it is the single regional circle or the multi-nominal circle. Finally, I would like to ask the CFP what its model is for financing the administrative regions. Mr. João Oliveira, the answer to all these questions, and we could add many others, would undoubtedly be a good contribution to the serious, enlightening and unprecipitative debate that is required. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u48	To reply, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u49	Mr President, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, I would like to thank you for the questions you have put to me and I would like to say that you have already responded in my initial speech to the doubts that you have raised.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u50	Then repeat it there!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u51	What the CFP wants is for it to move towards regionalisation and that this decision is a weighted decision and weighs all that matters despite the decisions that need to be taken. And so we did not propose today to decide...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u52	It's not today, it's tomorrow!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u53	... of the model, of the number of plan regions, of the model of bodies to be set up, in the form of their election, of the financing of the administrative regions. The decision that needs to be taken now is to define a clear timetable which will allow, in time and with the depth that this matter requires, to make this discussion, and to do this not only in the Assembly of the Republic but seeking to make it as widely as possible in Portuguese society. Therefore, Mr President, I believe that, by reading the draft resolution and what it contains, the concerns, the concerns of the PSD, all of them, are there to be taken into account and, all of them, are cautious. We really want this deep discussion to take place. We have our proposals and our vision, but we want the discussion to be made as widely as possible. And from here until 2021, until September or October 2021, we have time for this discussion to be held, naturally benefiting from the studies and all the opinions that are validly brought to the debate, so that we can reflect on them and so that the Assembly of the Republic can take decisions. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, I would like to say to you, in particular, about the issues you have raised, of the revision of the framework law, of the model of election, of the powers, of the financing model, that all of them must be adequately decided, at the level of the Assembly of the Republic, after we have gathered the necessary contributions to be collected today, also depending on the evolution that over the years has been taking place on these matters. And that is what we propose in our draft resolution: that in the first quarter of 2021 we are in a position to take decisions on the matters which you have referred to and others, in particular the number of regions or the framework of plan regions we want to decide on. The proposal which the CFP brings here is precisely that it is not to run away from this debate and that it is assumed that this debate will be held, setting the timetable for it to be made. Therefore, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, on the part of the CFP, we sincerely hope that the concerns that you have brought here today will not serve as an excuse for a timetable not to be set for everyone to have an answer and for this debate to take place, because that is what we are proposing and not the other way around, Mr. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u54	You have the floor now, too, to ask for clarification, Mr Raul Miguel Castro.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u55	Mr President, Mr. João Oliveira, the proposal for regionalization presented in your project forgets a premise that is essential for the development of it: if, indeed, a regionalization project always aims to bring citizens' decision-making centres closer together, it is not only this proposal that will be achieved. What we have on the table is a draft resolution that only concerns two things: one is to discuss whether it is the current model of the CCDRs or whether it was approved in Law No 19 / 98 with the creation of eight regions;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u56	Little thing! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u57	...the other is that of the municipal assemblies to speak in a certain context. We understand that, indeed, what is essential for increasing the competitiveness and cohesion of the territory, for combating inequalities and for the demographic challenge will necessarily have to be based on strengthening local power. from there the two questions I ask you: what role do you play in local power in the context of a regionalization project? And, in the face of the options they put, do they really prefer any of them? It was important to know that we can also take due care of what is on the table. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u58	Mr. João Oliveira, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u59	Mr President, Mr Raul Miguel Castro, I would like to thank you for your questions and to say the following: when we propose, in the draft resolution, that the municipal assemblies should be given the opportunity and the possibility to participate in this process, of course, with the aim that this discussion be held as wide as possible in Portuguese society, expecting, of course, that the municipal assemblies should fulfil one of their various tasks, which is precisely the involvement of the people in this debate, in this debate which needs to be made, with the clearance of a position, of an opinion with which the Assembly of the Republic may count, on the part of each of the municipal assemblies, in the decisions to be taken. I would like to say to you, Mr Raul Miguel Castro, that there is a very large difference between decentralization and deconcentration. Decentralisation is attributing to self-elected bodies the possibility of choosing the power of decision. The inconcentration, on the basis of which the Government and the PS have advanced with the idea of amendments to the rules of the CCDRs, means the opposite: it means that a higher body transfers to a hierarchically dependent body the competence of execution of something, but it is the higher body that continues to protect, that continues to decide, to drive, to inspect and to control what the other body does. This option that the PS makes deconcentration is contradictory with the option of advancing towards regionalisation, until it does not help to clarify competences — and with this I answer the question it has raised — which must be clearly assumed between the different levels of central, regional and local administration. There is no way to respect the autonomy of the local authority if its powers are not clarified, especially in the framework of coordination with other levels of administration, in particular the regional one. Therefore, Mr Raul Miguel Castro, I would say that of the questions you have asked and the answers we have given you, the PS has all the conditions to approve the draft resolution of the CFP tomorrow if it is truly committed to moving forward with regionalization. Another attitude on the part of the PS, Member of Parliament, can only have the opposite reading, i.e. that the PS is not wanting to move forward with the regionalization process with a different attitude than the speech it makes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u60	You have the floor to present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr José Maria Cardoso.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Regionalization, subject to the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, in Articles 255. is 256. the, since 1976, has continued to carry out. It is a promise of April that is not fulfilled and that it is important to resolve. cyclically, the debate reborn and resumed with arguments about advantages and disadvantages, but remains there. It is true that a referendum was already held in November 1998, and that the result was a significant victory of the « no », even if it was not binding to have an abstention rate of 51, 7 %. It is also true that, on the basis of this referendum, it was agreed at a constitutional review in 1997 that, among other amendments, this would become the only necessarily referenceable issue. But also, on this point, many doubts arise, such as, for example, knowing what is necessarily the subject of referendum. Judgment No 532 / 98 of the Constitutional Court found it inadmissible to establish administrative regions and only referendable to the map of regionalisation that could be associated with them. And the legal obstacles and constraints are not exhausted here. In fact, this referendum law is truncated by the double requirement of approval: that of the map of the regions and that of the specific region of residence at the same time. This means that, if there is a region which is majority voting 'no' on the creation of the specific region, it makes the whole process of regionalisation impossible. Lacking a region, the whole is paralyzed, and we are not talking about a purely academic hypothesis. This likely, but effective, situation is in opposition to the basic democratic principles. A certain number of voters with reduced national expression, with all the legitimacy of voting options, may make the majority will of the national population impossible. It's a democratic troupe. Therefore, the Constitution, on the one hand, opens and enshrines regionalization and, on the other, legislation closes and impedes the process. Procedural obstruction cannot be prevented from the consecration of an eternal right and promise. The Left Block is totally in favour of regionalization and intends to initiate the process with this draft resolution. In Parliament, so far, we have heard the CDS exhibit an opposing position and we see the PS and PSD with a dubious attitude, in a kind of ambivalence, which has been responsible for the obstacle and postponement of the process. For example, the PS did not move forward in the previous mandate because it was necessary to create conditions to carry out the process in this mandate that has just begun, but it is already for the next one. In addition, the latest Congress of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities (ANMP) was paradigmatic in November of these contrast positions. The opening and closing speeches, orchestratedly, defined the barriers of discussion. By means of this, we have heard the vast majority of the autarchs enthusiastically defend regionalization. The President of the Republic opened the Congress to state that the Portuguese are not yet ready to vote on this complex issue, using the popular proverb « should not put the car in front of the woods». Interestingly allusion to whom he campaigned for « no » in 1998 and made a decisive contribution to the referendum in the 1997 constitutional review. The Prime Minister, on the one hand, closed the congress by creating another mark, saying that the priority is to move forward with the election of the presidents of the Regional Coordination and Development Committees, in an election, as much as it is now known by the members of the elected local power, i.e. of the municipal chambers, of the municipal assemblies and of the parish. It will be an indirect election which, like what happens in the metropolitan joints, makes the CCDR presidency a party party party struggle. However, we can ask why this election is presented as a response to regionalization if these are organs with different competences and interventions. On the other hand, the Prime Minister reaffirmed that what is needed is to continue the process, which the Government calls for decentralization but which is no more than a process of municipalization, mere delegation of competences, with sectoral diplomas published on the accounts and with total opacity on the funding fund and with the obligation to accept until 2021. This municipality does not withdraw relevance to regionalization, it first gives it strength, because it shows it as inevitable, such are the shortcomings that are being recognized. But we focus the debate and this presentation on the positive points of regionalisation that the Bloc is defending. Why and why regionalize? First of all, it is important to clarify that what is at issue is not autonomous regions like the Azores and Madeira. What is concerned are administrative regions, defined as local authorities and which are thus enshrined in Article 236 of the Constitution. o. They have the scope of regional intervention but are local authorities in the legal and constitutional nature. Admitting that there are legitimate doubts about advantages or disadvantages, whether or not the factor of national cohesion, the power, or not, of aggravating asymmetries, or the risk of creating a domain from the central cities, is true that, in no case, there is an optimal situation, much less unique. Regionalization is not the cure for all evils. He's got risks and he may have contradictions. It is a democratic form of decentralization and that is what it must be based on. The Left Block wants to put the issue on the political agenda and give it due relevance without pressure or pressure but considering that it is time to make this serious and rigorous debate which has been purposely secondaryized. It's time to make a move. It is not enough to talk about territorial cohesion, it is necessary to build this cohesion with the administrative organization that supports it. Portugal is one of the most centralist countries in the European Union and even in the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ). He lacks regional-based intermediate power. We moved from central to local, with very different scales, without a subnational or supramunicipal vision. OECD studies have found a clear statistical association between development and decentralization, translated into a relationship between better development and the exercise of regional power. It is necessary to create a revitalization of the regional and local economy with a kind of identity dynamics, even because there is a desvitalization of many of these discentred services of the state and the loss of these services in so many municipalities—in this century 6500 public services have been closed. Thus, the degree of centralism of public decisions has been accentuated with high costs of efficiency, efficiency and equity and with a dangerous feeling of effective abandonment. But the best example to talk about regionalization is the current reality: macrocephaly, bicephaly, depopulation, in some cases desertification, without measuring results or predicting consequences. Regional asymmetries in our country — such a small country — are so large and with so much inequality. Without falling into a simplistic coastal/internal dichotomy—until there are many interiors, there is not only one, nor the coast itself is all the same, there are, in particular, population hiatus in many areas—there is a dividing line, so to speak, which causes these asymmetries, not meaning that there is this simple treatment, merely appealing, of each part. There is a serious problem with the interior, but there is also a serious problem with the metropolitan areas, due to an overpopulation that has led to a population concentration that has become a 'diseconomy' of scale. There is another very important argument to equalize and that we find it essential to be aware: this regionalization may be the opportunity, I would say, unique, almost unique, to implement, from the territories, an energy and agroforestry transition program, infrastructure and mobility, based on rail and collective transport, contributing all to what we perceive today to be an inevitable: the decarbonization and the change of paradigm. In fact, in addition to all these aspects, it is important to mention: in the way of the digitisation of society, propagated particularly by the government, it is essential to create modern and efficient regional administrations, which are able to ensure the democratity of performance and election of positions and transparency throughout the executive process. It is clear that we will also have to talk about an approach between voters, with more participatory forms of intervention, walking towards what is the desire, always, of a participatory democracy. It is the intention of the Left Block to deal with the issue in a reasoned and convincing manner and to raise the debate with total openness and involvement. There is a regional and even local view, but it has been inserted in a framework and in a national view of complementarity and never of rivalry or confrontation between regions and, much less, between perspectives of singular development, because we are talking about the same country with the same collective objectives. It is not a loss of national cohesion, but it is a question of creating conditions for greater territorial cohesion, with national balance. Our intention is to create conditions for a serious and high debate, which puts the issues at the point of what is questionable. Therefore, this draft resolution, which we have entitled « Prepare procedures for the creation of administrative regions », has two very generic points in which it is based : to initiate an extended public debate process for the establishment of administrative regions in Portugal, to be concluded by the end of 2020, by timing it, and to prepare the approval of the legal framework for the establishment of administrative regions in the first half of 2021. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to finish this presentation, let us turn to the debate and consolidate arguments to collectively create a proposal that will be able, on the one hand, to unlock the constraints and, on the other, to respond to the great challenge of regionalization. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u62	Mr President, the Bureau records the registrations of PS Members Filipe Pacheco, and Jorge Mendes of the PSD, to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u63	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u64	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Filipe Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Maria Cardoso, the Bloco today brought an initiative on the creation of administrative regions. But initiatives are not just the initiatives themselves; they are the initiatives and the context in which they are presented. And the context in which the Block now presents this initiative is precisely that a highly ambitious, very important process of decentralization of competences for local authorities in various areas of the State is under way. I would like to say one thing: we are available for all debates, but this is not the time to move forward with this initiative. It is essential that the decentralization of competences now under way be implemented and consolidated. Mr President, decentralisation is the cornerstone of the democratic reform of the state and regionalization, of course, is a form of decentralization for a regional step. But let's see if we understand the position of the Left Block: to decentralisation you answer that this is bad, that this only comes to municipalize State tasks, that lack financial resources, that lack human resources and that do not serve. They are not available to solve any process problems or to build. But if it is to decentralise at a higher dose, at a regional level, for new entities that do not yet exist, there is already useful and not only useful, as it has to start at the beginning of 2021. So, Mr President, what I am asking is that the Left Block does not know the broad process of decentralization of competences for local authorities in various areas of the State, which is currently under way?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u66	But it was worth not knowing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u67	Does the Left Block not know that most municipalities have accepted the new skills without greater constraints? Does the Left Block not know that, within the framework of this decentralization, the Government has been on the ground and is paying attention to the difficulties of the authorities with the Route for Decentralisation? Does the Left Block not know that we are facing the greatest process of decentralization of competences in recent decades, truly fulfilling the principle of subsidiarity? Does the Left Block not know that the Government intends to establish the democratic election of the CCDRs? By the way, what does the Block think about the election of the CCDRs, which will make any future change more agile, even in a context of regionalization? Does the Left Block not know that, of the 278 municipalities, 234, i.e. 84 %, have already begun to assume the competences in the process of decentralization? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party has been very clear about regionalization. This is not a matter that is in the Government Programme, unlike the decentralization of competences, which is now at a decisive stage. We understand that it is necessary to create a feeling of widespread confidence in the country as regards regionalization and that a well-concreted process of decentralization is another safe step to increase that confidence. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Party is not available for regionalisation to be used as a weapon to try to overlap and to try to kill the decentralization process that is currently happening. For that, do not count on the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u68	We already knew that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u69	To request clarification, Mr. Jorge Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Maria Cardoso, the PSD has always defended the principle of subsidiarity, in that the public powers must be exercised by the best placed entity to achieve them. The PSD started from local power and understands the strengthening of the role of intervention of municipalities in the governance of the public thing as fundamental to improving the quality of life of Portuguese. I would also like to add that in order to hinder the disparity of any regionalization which, not attacking the centralizing power of Lisbon, seeks the field of action in a possible demunicipalization of political power. The PSD, a responsible party, hopes and wishes to conclude and deepen the ongoing process of decentralization without disruption of the elections and without nationalism in the programmes of the future elected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u72	However, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, some questions arise. I'm not going to talk about politics but procedures. We have examined the diplomas of the Left Block and the PCP, and we have doubts as to the regulatory compliance of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u73	Oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u74	The Rules of Procedure and parliamentary practice have consolidated the reading that the figure of the deliberations should be reserved for the practice of acts within the Assembly and that of the resolution to produce external effects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u75	That justification is not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u76	Calm down! Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u77	So, Mr. Members, the first question I put concerns the form of the act chosen by the proposers. Should these projects cover the form of resolution, as proposed by the proposers? Do not these draft decisions which aim to produce internal effects in the Assembly of the Republic and therefore should not take the form of deliberation? On the other hand, we all know that the projects in question fall within the competences of the Assembly of the Republic and have an impact on the matter on which the Assembly can legislate. Therefore, I ask: was it not more reasonable and effective than the Left Block, rather than presenting a draft resolution, to have submitted a bill for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u78	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u79	With regard to arbitrary laws on the same subject, I would like to ask: where are the honourable Members? Ladies and gentlemen? Aren't we gonna be here discussing the sex of angels and out of time? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u80	We've seen you vote against!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u81	To reply, Mr José Maria Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Filipe Pacheco and Mr Jorge Mendes, thank you for the questions you have raised. I begin by replying to Mr Filipe Pacheco of the Socialist Party. The honourable Member asked whether the Left Block does not know that there is an ongoing process of decentralisation, but I answer the following: we are not telling you that, because we know it well, it is precisely the authors who say that this process has been a joke. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u83	I would also like to remind you of what has already been known to many autocrats and many chamber presidents regarding the obligation to assume functions and competences for which they were not at least prepared.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u84	Only the left block autoarchs are saying that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u85	in this process, there is a tremendous and increasingly evident risk of outsourcing services, opening the door to privatization of a set of services for which the authorities are not at least prepared to perform, neither at the level of human resources, nor at the level of technical resources and much less have population size to do so. It is forgotten that 85% of the municipalities have less than 50 000 residents. Therefore, this scale is too small for the allocation of this set of competences. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] In addition, there is another very important issue: it was not exactly the political argument, and much less the party involved; what was at stake was the fact that the government published diplomas, sectorally, the accounts, on the financial package and with total opacity so far. It is a huge risk, it is an experimentalism that is being done with the authorities in this so-called process of decentralization but that is no more than a municipalization. In fact, to be a process of decentralization, an intermediate body in which powers were decentralized would have to be created, and that is not what happened in this particular case, because competences, without any counterpart, are being attributed to municipalities. I can tell you that there are many municipalities that must be quite distressed at this moment with what they will receive, because they do not know how they will manage. Therefore, this is not a process that serves as an example, nor at least coincides with the options of regionalization. The PS tells us that it has been clear about regionalization and that it is waiting for time. My lords, it's been 46 years! If we continue to wait for regionalisation, it may not have happened in a century, because we are not ready. What the PS has done, successively, is to create a set of artisans, bringing the question to the table as a point of discussion, but not solving anything at all. In other words, everything continues at exactly the same point and the PS will protect the situation, with the election of the CCDRs, with the allocation of competences and without any political position. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] When the PS tells us that it has been very clear and that it is against our proposal, this was clear to us, we already knew that it had this position, even because it is waiting for the government's own dictates on this situation. I am now replying to Mr. PSD. First of all, I do not understand the regimeal conformity which invokes, very sincerely, nor do I understand what you are trying to say. I thank you for your suggestion to present a bill instead of a resolution, but that is certainly not the reason why you vote in favour or against.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u87	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u88	By the way, I would like to tell you, Mr Jorge Mendes, that it is interesting the argument that the PSD invokes to be against our proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u89	Calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u90	That is to say, it is against our proposal because it has any regimental inconformity. It is an interesting political argument, which, of course, we note. We hope that the PSD will present a proposal, so that we will also make our comments and see what you have to say about it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u91	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Welcome to another «Minute liberal», today on the topic of regionalization,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u93	It's our Zen moment!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u94	... which no one has yet explained what it consists of. Therefore, more than giving a name, it is interested to know what is intended. If you want to multiply bureaucratic structures and stains for friends, which the central block likes so much, we are against. If you want effective decision-making power closer to people, we are in favour. If you want more state, be central, be local, we're against. If the process is fiscally neutral and does not involve tax increases, we are in favour. If you intend to rush to the totalitarian dream of the PCP to control the future region of the Alentejo before other equally controlling forces, we are against.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u95	You've ruined everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u96	If you want to give back power to the citizens or, when this is not possible, to the authorities, we are in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u97	It was three to zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u98	If it is intended to create structures chosen to perpetuate the domain and sympathy between parties of the system, we are against. Finally, and this is essential, if the decentralised powers are accompanied by the right of the regions to decide on their revenue and expenditure, and to compete freely with each other, we are in favour. As the popular song said, « hor zumba in canica/hora in canica zumba», so much so does we, provided that in the end we can bring greater freedom of decision and greater freedom of choice to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u99	Now you surprised me! For liberal is more advanced than the Silveira Mouzinho!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u100	Mrs Inês de Sousa Real spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We recognize that the draft resolutions of the CFP and the Left Block have the merit of allowing Parliament to debate for the first time in this Parliament, regionalization in Portugal. We understand, however, that it is not yet as long as is necessary. For the NAP, the debate on the legal creation and the concrete institution of this intermediate level of power, as well as its advantages and disadvantages, has been stopped since 1990.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u103	It is clear to all that this is a debate that is about to be held in the 21st century. In order to be successful, this should not be a counter-relegated debate, nor should it be a debate which is closed in Parliament, so little in the municipal assemblies, or, worse, it should not be an extra-parliamentary debate at the closed door between PS and PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u105	Yes, it must be a debate resumed over time, in an extended way and involving universities and civil society, so as to avoid the rush and excessive politicization of the debate, making regionalization fall, making the same mistakes that have recently occurred in the process of decentralisation or, for more time, in the process of merging the rules and frameworks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u106	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u107	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular Mrs and Mrs. Members of the PCP and the Left Block, as you well know, any undebated structural reform is a unsuccessful and unacceptable reform by the people. We should not, therefore, want to repeat the mistakes made by the PS and the PSD in the past — which have been criticised so much — allowing people to perceive and debate regionalisation. At the same time, it should be stressed that, contrary to the position of the CFP in the 1990s — which is possibly the same as it stands for today — in which it was opposed to the holding of a referendum on the institution of the administrative regions for considering that it could undermine the constitutional obligation to constitute the regions, the NAP, as a party committed to the logic of participatory democracy, does not abdicate from the referendum procedure imposed by the Constitution, since it believes that this is a matter in which populations, rather than the right to debate, should have the right to decide whether or not they agree with the solutions in particular. However, in order for the Portuguese to be able to speak in the referendum, it is necessary to resolve the two ruling knots contained in the Constitution, which will only happen through constitutional review. The first one, marked by the Independent Commission for Decentralisation, which had a representative of the Left Block itself, relates to the question of regional scope. According to the Independent Commission, this question should be deleted at the constitutional level as it is an invitation to reject regionalisation and would bring a « antidemocratic consignment ». That is to say, there is a set of voters with a freely minority national expression that could impose their will on the great majority of the national electorate. The second, marked by some academics, is linked to the articulation of what is currently in the Constitution with the rejection of regionalization in 1998. In the light of these academics' understanding, in order to avoid any doubt that the referendum procedure could be used at the beginning, a constitutional review is necessary to clarify the terms of the national referendum, including the number of voters needed and the majority of votes required for regionalisation to be carried out. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the NAP here undertakes to enshrine these necessary clarifications in the draft constitutional review to be presented in this Parliament. We understand that, with this constitutional review and with a debate over time, carried out in a broad and in-depth manner, we will then be in a position to move forward to the referendum on regionalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u108	A year and a half!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u109	For this reason, the Abster-CL PAN will be in relation to the PCP project and to point 2 of the Left Block project and will vote in favour of point 1 of the Left Block project, because we understand that it allows the necessary debate on regionalization to be opened in civil society. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u110	For an intervention, Mr José Luís Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are well aware of the invaluable value of local democracy and we have evidence of the consecration, valorization and deepening of regional autonomy. To defend the regions is also to defend the European project of peace, development and regional cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u113	The PS has been, is and will always be prepared for democracy. We have as essential local and regional powers, in valuing people and their cultural, social, economic and environmental resources, and we know of their strategic importance for economic and social development to take place in valuing the territories, with balance and with a fair distribution of resources. In his memoirs on the preparatory process for economic and monetary union, Jacques Delors said, and I quote: «The different nations and regions do not have all the same weapons, in view of the prospect of an increased competition. Some are late, others experience structural difficulties and the free market calls for solidarity. Something I have tried to summarize in the following formula: competition that stimulates, cooperation that strengthens, solidarity that unites. This is how we have found a satisfactory wording, with a new basis for economic and social cohesion in the Treaties.' So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the promotion of regional development and social, economic and territorial cohesion have been closely linked since the 1980s, both in Community policies and in the policies of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the construction of Portuguese and European democracy is closely linked to local democracy and regional democracy. It is because we understand the organization of political-administrative power as an instrument at the service of a vision of the development of the country that we assume our commitment to the objective of regionalization. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, we know from experience that the safe path to be taken is at this time the consolidation of the ongoing decentralization process and the strengthening of the democratic legitimacy of the Coordination and Regional Development Committees. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The decentralization effort in the areas of education, health and culture, and in other areas, ongoing throughout the country illustrates the government's reformist momentum and is proof of the unequivocal will to put power to the service of the people and their local institutions. And, let us not forget, this gesture of trust in local communities is based on the commitments of compliance with the Local Finance Act and the strengthening of the human and financial resources of the Freguesias, as assumed by the Prime Minister of the Country at the Congress of the ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ) and the ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias ). Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do not want those who permanently blame centralism for delays and obstacles to development now find subterfuges to exempt themselves from their political responsibilities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important to remember that since 12 December 1976 the Socialist Party has declared itself as a great party to democratic local power, having managed to win the first democratic elections, with more than 1, 377 million votes. The PPD / PSD obtained in this election more than 1, 14 million, followed by the United People's Election Front, with more than 781 000 votes, and the CDS, with more than 693 000 votes. There were then several other political formations whose votes were in order and below 100 000 votes. We are living proof of the value of electoral elections and of life in democracy. I refer to these figures to stress that all democratic forces that have founded the constituent power and have helped to build, develop and consolidate local power and regional autonomy of the Azores and Madeira know well the effects of this power on the valorization and improvement of the living conditions of our local and regional communities: on accessibility, mobility and transport, on electricity and communication infrastructures, on water and sanitation infrastructures, on the construction and maintenance of schools, preschool, basic and secondary schools, on primary health care, on public health; on civil protection and on relief to populations, on the construction and maintenance of sports, cultural and recreational equipment, on the promotion of economic development, finally in all areas of our collective life. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, bringing people closer to power means greater quality in our democratic life, greater effectiveness in the decision-making process and more efficiency in the allocation of public resources. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the institution of the administrative regions has been constitutionally established since 1976, with several government programmes integrated, and even in 1991 the Framework Law of the Administrative Regions was adopted. As is known and despite unanimity in its approval, this Framework Law did not apply and with the Constitutional Review of 1997 the creation of the regions is dependent on its approval in popular referendum. The referendum was held on 8 November 1998 and more than 60 % of the voters replied 'no' to both questions in question, to the specific institution of the administrative regions and to the specific institution of the administrative region of its electoral census area. And I remember that even if the citizens had voted majority on these two issues, it would still not be binding, since more than 50 % of the voters were not voting. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this means that we must walk on land. It means, therefore, that we must do everything we can to ensure good results in the ongoing decentralization, to fulfil the confidence of a large majority of the social partners who support the political majority in this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in March we will be familiar with the Government's final proposal to give local democratic legitimacy to the Coordination and Regional Development Committees. Autarchs of parish, assemblies and municipal chambers will have the power to choose the new interpreters of the regional power. Along with the ongoing decentralization, this is another demonstration of the confidence that the Socialist Party in the Government has in the local and regional base powers. We are therefore honoring the word given to all and to all Portuguese, and in doing so we affirm, by conviction and responsibility, the honour to democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u114	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u115	Mr President, Mr José Luís Carneiro, I begin by congratulating you on my compliments and saying the following: in the speech which the Member here mentioned that the Socialist Party is committed to the goal of regionalization and, recently, a member of the Socialist Party also referred to agreeing with regionalization but that it was not the time. In his speech, he pointed out that now is not the time for regionalisation but for the consolidation of the process of transfer of competences and democratic legitimacy of the CCDRs, as the Government has decided to designate this process. That is precisely what is contrary to what is necessary in order to implement the regionalisation process. Firstly, regionalization is in itself an element and an integral part of decentralization, which our Constitution places and, over these more than 40 years, the Socialist Party, in its various interventions, has contributed to its postponement. Secondly, the process under way for the transfer of competences is so positive and so successful, as the Government intends to put it, which is already being put on the table the possibility of delaying the transfer of competences in education and health for the year 2022.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u116	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u117	And why do you do that? Because the conditions for the transfer of competences are not met. And why? Because we are not faced with a process of decentralization but, yes, with a process of transfer of charges to the authorities and a set of competences that governments after governments have been irresponsible, having not effectively solved the problems with which the populations are confronted. However, Mr, we can also mention the following : the success of the process of transfer of competences is such that only 50 municipalities have intended to assume all the competences for 2020, and in education and health only a residual number of municipalities have assumed these competences, therefore the majority have not. With regard to the CCDRs, the truth is that they have been an obstacle and an obstacle to the realization of regionalisation and what is needed is indeed a direct election by the people with concrete powers and that they can actually carry out this scrutiny. So the question I leave you with is this: when does the honourable Member think that the conditions for starting this process of regionalization are being created or, in other words, what the Socialist Party is asking for, after the legislature, never to consider the time and continue to postpone this process, which is so fundamental for the development of our country? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u118	To reply, Mr. José Luís Carneiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u119	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, I would like to remind you that it is very important that we all appreciate the path that is being developed to give more power to local communities, in their process of public choice, in relation to health policies, culture policies, education policies and in a whole of about 20 areas of new competences that we are transmitting to local communities. This is because we understand and believe that the power close to local communities is essential to build a more coherent, fairer and more supportive development model. And we do not want, through a lateral discourse to what are essential achievements of acquiring new powers and strengthening the powers of local communities, to aim at what is a path we have to develop to achieve a goal that requires consolidation so that we can take concrete, safe steps, to achieve a political objective that did not deserve maturity in the referendum. I remind the honourable Member that, when we left for popular consultation, the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the ENP were in this same goal of popular consultation to populations. The Socialist Party has always been with the effort to decentralise and strengthen regional powers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u120	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that in this debate on regionalisation it would be important for all parties to start speaking clearly, and to apologize-CL - if you tell me that I have seen very little speak clearly this afternoon. First of all, as far as I can see, all the parties that have spoken so far are in favour of regionalisation, are having a discussion here on regionalization methods and not on the need and the fact that they want to move forward with regionalisation. Now, I would like to say that for CDS this is not an acquired data, I repeat, regionalization is not an acquired data. Secondly, and to make it clear: our Constitution is very clear about regionalization and it seems that everyone is very forgotten here what Article 256 says. that of the Constitution, which I read to remember: « The specific institution of the regions(...) » depends on the favourable vote expressed by the majority of voters who have spoken in direct consultation, nationally and in relation to each regional area. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PCP and the Left Block, before step one and step two, which you want to give, have a zero step, which is to ask the Portuguese. And they must also stop having amnesia and remember that this question has already been asked to the Portuguese and that the Portuguese said 'no'. [[It's true! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u122	And I must tell you that the debate here is being held in this House, "making dead letters" of all that these Portuguese have said and of the "no" that these Portuguese have given to regionalization, is a disregard for the will, then, expressed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u123	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u124	Anyone who was listening to this debate this afternoon thought that there had never been a referendum until now and that the Portuguese had never said « no».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u126	The Portuguese said 'no' and, therefore, until there is another referendum and until they say 'yes', the obligation of this Parliament is to respect this will which has been expressed and not to try to make regionalisations, be more open to hideouts. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Then we must respect the Portuguese who expressed their opinion in a referendum and whose opinion was 'no'. Secondly, let us clarify something about concepts. As regards the election of the CCDRs, of two, one : or what the government wants to do is substitute for regionalization and is a kind of regionalization in the hiding places, and then I have to say clearly that it is unconstitutional and that it cannot do so, i.e., if it is about decentralisation, if these organs are to be elected by the authorities, they will no longer be part of the central administration of the State, the unconcentrated administration of the State, and they will become competent themselves, that is, a form of regionalization and must be preceded by reference, it is unconstitutional; or these bodies, in fact, will continue within the hierarchy of the State and then I do not see that they will have to be elected by the authorities. You don't understand! Two: either they want to decentralization or they don't want to.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u128	Now, this hybrid of central state organs elected by the authorities, just look at the tourism regions to see the huge problems they bring. Secondly, I'd like to know exactly what we're talking about. We hear a lot of people talking about regionalisation, but let's see: Portugal is one of the most centralised countries in Europe, it needs, yes, desperately, decentralization. But the gentlemen. Do you know why decentralization does not happen? It's because of the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, they don't want to have the debate that needs to be done. While Mr. Members of the CFP and BE, who both cry for regionalization and for decentralization, are not able to say, for example, that services of the Ministry of Education will have to cease to exist because their competences will disappear from the central state and move to the municipalities and regions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u129	That is the discussion that must be taken next!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u130	...as long as you don't start by saying that, we're never going to have decentralization.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u131	This is the discussion that has to be done next, on the basis of bills!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u132	And that was the reason why the central block, PSD / PS, had no political courage to say what would cease to exist in the central state. It is that competences will only be decentralised when they disappear in the central state. If this advance step is not taken, we will be able to have all the discussions in the world, we will be able to make every promise that there will be no increase in taxes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u133	The CDS does not want to move to the second stage, to the stage of the discussion!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u134	But of course there will be duplication of skills and tax increases, because if there are two services to perform the same skills, of course it will be necessary to get some money to pay them and it is obvious where it is going to be. In fact, that part is very visible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u135	There's nothing two services, it's just one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u136	Mr João Oliveira, you have already spoken, but if you want to talk again, I will stop and talk! Now, the two of us at the same time have some difficulty!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u137	The part is regimental! [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u138	Madam Member, I think you can proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u139	Mr President, if your parliamentary group can stop talking systematically, while I can. [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u140	Madam Member, I, where I am, have no parliamentary group. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u141	That's what you should remember.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u142	But I'm asking the gentlemen. Members create conditions for the honourable Member to be able to conclude his speech. Madam Member, I would like to inform you from now on if you would like to manage your time on the basis of this, that a Member has already signed up to request clarifications. I would ask you to conclude your statement now as you understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. He gave me very useful information. I will manage my time so as to be able to answer the honourable Member who has applied for clarification. I would just like to say the following: the Independent Commission for Decentralisation recommends the creation of five regional councils, with seven elements each, 300 Members, and more advisory bodies for each region. We are talking, without more, of 400 new political positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u144	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u145	I would like to know whether the other parties here in Parliament agree or not with this constitution. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u146	Mr Pedro Sousa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u147	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I have heard you remind me of Plato's "Allegory of the Cave" because, in fact, the CDS seems to continue to be trapped in the shadow world, it does not bring anything back to the debate and we do not know what the alternative model to do in the motion adopted by your recent Congress is just one paragraph. There is only one paragraph that speaks of decentralization and deconcentration. But how? What the Portuguese don't know is how. What I ask you, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, is to tell me which model the CDS defends, instead of putting the interests of the party in front of the Portuguese and Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u148	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u149	Mr President, I would like to thank the request for clarification from the Socialist Party, in fact, a request for clarification that put « allegories of the cave », Plato, in the end... What I did not perceive was that « allusion small» to the interests of the party in front of the interests of the country. Let us see if we understand, because this has nothing to do with something I have said, nor, curiously, any relationship with anything that you have said. I imagine the honourable Member thought it was a phrase that was good. I'll tell you two things. First of all, what this motion says is perfectly compatible with what the electoral programme says with which the CDS presented itself to the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u150	It's zero! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u151	And it's very clear, it's very clear... [[PS protests.]] [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u152	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to be able to conclude. You would like to continue, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u153	Mr. President, I have no problem with the parts. I just think it's very unpleasant for the people who are watching this session at home to see people always screaming. And you don't realize that these people are screaming because there are other people screaming in front of you. The parts give liveliness, but I ask that there be some respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u154	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u155	As I said, the CDS electoral programme is perfectly clear on this. In fact, I wrote a part of it, and it is absolutely clear. Yes, we are in favour of decentralization, provided it does not involve cost increases. And since it does not involve — and since it is speaking in the interests of the parties — more « tachos», plus 400 new « tachos», as indeed your Independent Commission, which has been arranged in a very friendly way by the central bloc, has already come to expect. So, honourable Member, if we are talking about a more agile state, in which decisions are made by whom you are closest, I am absolutely in favour. But also please say what, in the central state, for example, in the Ministry of Education, will happen...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u156	Zero! It's zero! The honourable Member has not responded to anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u157	Zero, zero, Mr. Member, were the charges that you were able to extinguish in the central state. You are not able to abdicate a single job of friends to create these new positions in the regions. And that's the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u158	Zero, you didn't answer anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u159	Mr. PS continues to shout 'zero, zero, zero! In fact, he didn't do anything, I know he didn't do anything, but that's exactly what I'm saying. [[PS protests.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are absolutely available for the debate that the Socialist Party never wanted to do and that the PCP and the Left Block will never want to do, which is the debate not only to know what competences are also exercised by the municipalities but the competences become exercised only by the municipalities,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u160	... disappearing from the central state and thus there is no more expenditure and no more taxes. What you know to do is to create more and more charges, more fees and more taxes. Now, to this model we clearly say: "No! Do not keep on seeking. ” [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u161	So, what is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u162	Mr André Ventura has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I had not planned to do this, but after listening to the Socialist Party, I remembered 2009. Well, what was going on in 2009?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u164	At that time, you were the color of your tie!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u165	We had the Eng. José Socrates to arrive in Évora — Évora, but at the time, for a congress — where a motion called « The Force of Change » was presented, in which a regionalization was spoken with broad national consensus, calling for the PCP and the Left Block. It is curious to bring here the motion of the CDS, when you took the motions on regionalization everywhere and, until today, never fulfilled them, so that there was a PSD secretary-general who even said that José Socrates was the « covering of regionalization ». But, of course, today it is necessary to give your hand behind the curtain there to those three or four parties (you no longer understand well). So, now, what is needed is to create a collusion between all of them so that this is possible. This is the truth of regionalization: more regional councils, more regional assemblies... I even have a suggestion how the CFP could begin to propose the referendum to the Portuguese. I made a cost map, which said: "It will cost you this. They now vote in favour or against.' And then they explain that there will be elections in 2021, which is important for decentralization and that the Constitution in 1976 already said so. Tell them that! But they also explain that, in a country where there is no money for health, where there is no money for justice, where there is no money for police officers, where there is no money for firefighters, there is money, yes, for more regional councils, for more regional assemblies, and I don't know how many "tachs" to distribute are not well known why.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u166	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u167	I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, there's something curious here. It is because the framework law of the administrative regions tells us that the regions will have the power to approve new rates and rates. What a good example for the Portuguese, to create more regions to have even more taxes and more costs! Is this what you propose to the Portuguese? Oh, my God! I shall finish, Mr President, by saying the following: we have no ambiguities. Honestly, "I am in the ink" for what the Constitution says. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] We want to send the Constitution, we want to send the regionalization... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u168	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u169	Enough wants to send regionalization to the garbage of history, which is where it should always have been.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u170	It's enough to solve this with any tyranny!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u171	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for an intervention by the ENP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The creation of the administrative regions returns today, and well, the debate in this plenary. As is public, the Greens Ecological Party has always expressed its support for the creation of administrative regions in our country. And it is also true that the Greens have not only been favorable, we have also contributed to specific legislative proposals, in order to get closer to the reality that the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic enshrines and expressly includes in its Part III on the organisation of political power, i.e. the administrative region. It was precisely because it recognized the importance that administrative regions can represent from a democratic point of view, from the point of view of their contribution to improving the quality of life of citizens, from the point of view of response to population problems, particularly environmental problems, from the point of view of regional development, but also because we consider that the Constitution, as the fundamental law of the country, is to take seriously, that the Greens were so committed to the process of regionalization. [[PEV and PS Members applauded.]] To this end, the Greens presented two initiatives on this subject during the far-reaching VII legislation. One of them proposes the establishment and procedure of the administrative regions on the continent and the other proposes to amend the framework law of the administrative regions. However, in addition to the presentation of these legislative initiatives, the Greens have been actively involved in the discussion during the referendum process, which, if it were in this regard, took place in our country about two decades ago. And we actively participate, taking part, taking the position, a clear and objective position in favour of the regionalisation process. Today, more than 40 years after our Constitution consecrated the administrative regions as an integral part of the organisation of political power, the Greens continue to be committed to defending the process of regionalisation. Today, two decades after the referendum, The Greens consider that it is time to return to the subject and start defining the timetable and its procedures to initiate the process of specific institution of the administrative regions and, therefore, we follow the proposals that are currently under discussion and that they aim to promote exactly the procedural momentum to meet our Constitution. It is true that, over time, from time to time, we were watching intentions in the sense, they were telling us, to promote decentralization. It happens, as today, we can also see, that these were only responses to media impulses, to a kind of loose remedies to disguise the essential. And the essential thing is to promote, establish true and effective decentralization. Today, we can see that these remedies were no longer aimed at delaying the process of regionalization and rationalization of state administration. This has been the case with the changes to some deconcentrated structures of the central administration, as is the case with the CCDRs, which, regardless of their work, do not in any way replace the administrative regions. Since then, in the case of the CCDRs, we are talking about deconcentration and what the administrative regions want and promote is decentralization. That is, one thing is to deconcentrate, another thing, quite different, to decentralize. And one concept is not confused or can be mixed with the other, because when we talk about deconcentration we are still talking about central administration and therefore we are not talking about decentralizing. This was also the case with the Independent Commission for Decentralisation, a product of a PS and PSD agreement to impose the transfer of responsibilities to local authorities without any concern about the transfer of funds necessary to the new responsibilities of local authorities. in one case and another, what is visible is a deliberate effort to continue to delay the process of creating administrative regions, a process and reform that enhances and deepens our democratic experience, which can promote the effective development of the most disadvantaged regions in the country, which improves the response to people's problems, which promotes the fight against regional asymmetries and ensures the autonomy of local power. This is all that the creation of the administrative regions can enhance and, in our view, it is time to start preparing the process so that in 2021 the administrative regions are a reality in our country, so that in 2021 we are in line with our Constitution, because it seems to us that no article, no precept of our constitution should be laid to waste. [[PEV and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u173	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this subject, the PSD wants to leave four key ideas recorded here. The first is that it is fully open to discuss the issue of regionalization, without filters, without prejudices and without any kind of dogmas. The PSD therefore agrees that there is an open debate—and it does not understand how the Socialist Party expresses reservations about this debate—that it can start now or from here shortly, and that this debate is held with civil society, with the inter-municipal communities, with the metropolitan assemblies, with the universities, with all those who know about this cause and to whom this causes matter, particularly with the political parties. This is not a forbidden matter and it was only missing that we could not talk about it. The second idea is that, at the same time as this debate, and consistent with what has been suggested by the Independent Technical Commission, Parliament, the parliamentary groups, read this report,... [[PCP protests.]] ...and realize that you have some very important notes and indications there to enable us all to legislate on what is basic. Here, Mr. João Oliveira, we cannot take the first step, walking 10 meters, without walking first 2, 3 or 4 meters. We can't do that, and that's what you're doing. That is the original sin of your projects and your ideas. First of all, the Portuguese, the Members, the political parties must realize that they want regionalisation. For what? What are the competences and responsibilities of the regional bodies? How will Members and regional bodies be elected? What are the sources of funding for regional bodies?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u175	That's the next phase!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u176	It is not, sir, it is not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u177	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u178	And then what will be the geographic cut in these regions? What councils will, in particular, be integrated into one region or another? Does the honourable Member say that this should be done later? You shouldn't. It was precisely because of this historical error, this nonsense, that in 1998 the referendum on regionalization led. It is that the Portuguese were put before a question without knowing anything about what was behind them. This can happen exactly the same thing. Without Parliament, without you having the courage — as we have already proposed — and you have fallen — to deconcentrate public services into the interior without, at the same time, accompanying this process of regionalization, we have not come out of this and this process is a real achievement. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, only after this extended, serious reflection, and it's a serious reflection...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u179	That's what you're proposing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u180	Mr President, it is a serious reflection, the most serious one for those who believe in regionalisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u181	That's what you're proposing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u182	And we must respect those who do not believe in regionalisation, because there are good arguments on both sides. The PSD is not expressing any pro-regionalization or anti-regionalisation position here. He's not, because first he wants to do this debate, he wants to hear, he wants to think,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u183	You haven't had time to think yet?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u184	...and only then he wants to act. You are doing exactly the opposite. I mean, just next. After that, Mr. Members — and this is the fourth and most important idea of all — the PSD will not agree with any regionalisation process that only serves, or serves primarily, to increase the state's spending, to favour partisan clientisms or to distribute some small places. If it's for that, don't count on us. But we can only tell whether or not we are free of this chaga after ourselves, here, we will make the laws that we have to do to enable the Portuguese to decide. If we don't do this, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to start home on the roof, which is what you are doing. Your projects are kind enough to introduce, once again, the debate on the issue of regionalization, but they soon die with the question of the timetable. It is interesting, Mr João Oliveira, that the CFP should choose the date of the referendum decision to coincide with the date of the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u185	Referendum decision? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u186	You guys are tactical, you're being tactical...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u187	Referendum decision? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u188	the decision of the municipal assemblies with the referendum. And so... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u189	For some reason you are making this match with the actual elections, because you are thinking about the votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u190	Is that it? Oh, my God! They're actual elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u191	It is legitimate, but it is a wrong starting point: either we are exposed to these tactics or we only think about regionalization because we have that idea—as I have—
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u192	They're actual elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u193	Sir, you know what? I am not sure which is the best organizational and administrative model in the country, but I am sure of one thing: in 46 years of democracy, only two decision-makers did not serve Portugal. We are on the line of Europe and what we know is that there are other countries, which are more advanced than we are, which are committed to decentralization, deconcentration and regionalisation. They count on us to think first and act later. We never want to build the house by the roof because it falls the next hour. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u194	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr João Azevedo. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Peixoto, I would like to say that there is no reservation on this path. The road is being well done and those who know the territory realize that people, even more than all of us, want proximity, want decision, want skills, responsibility, but also want more money to be invested. And as for the money to be invested, this government is fulfilling, at the moment, almost within the limit of what is the obligation of the law of local finances. There was an increase of nearly 300 million euros to be applied in the authorities and the authorities have to set priorities. More than that, we have regional, thematic and national programmes to be implemented,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u196	John, this is regionalization!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u197	As I said, we have regional, thematic and national programmes to be applied to the populations. It's the people who want it, it's not us. And those who know the territory well realize that today this path is much more consolidated than that which was done in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let me tell you one thing: the road is being consolidated in the footpaths of the parish, of the municipal chambers, of the municipal assemblies, of the inter-municipal communities, of the local development associations, of the CCDRs, of the regional branches, of the general Directorates, of the metropolitan areas. This work has been consolidated for several years and will certainly bear the fruit of regionalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u198	John, against or in favor! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u199	But now I would like to see what the PSD's position on this particular matter is. The President of your party, Dr. Rui Rio, publicly expressed himself as a defender of regionalization, and I assume that you too are accompanying him. However, it would be important to realize that this party's position in relation to the concrete process of implementation of these elections of the CCDRs and to see whether you also accompany the PS in order to understand that the election of the CCDRs will allow an important step in the consolidation of arguments for regionalization, in particular by approaching the decision-making of voters, through more democratic scrutiny, which will allow, in our view, dismantle the argument of those who argue that regionalization could increase public spending. Here is the answer to the request for clarification which has put me in the middle of our discussion. I would like to tell you that the Socialist Party has a clear notion of what it is doing, of what it is committing to the decentralized services of the State so that at the end we can have a regionalization that serves people and Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u200	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u201	Mr President, Mr João Azevedo, you know that I know the territory as well as you, since we live in neighbouring councils, you were autarch in one and I was autarch in another. Therefore, these lessons of moral superiority keep them for our region and do not bring them here. He asked what is the PSD's position on the direct election of the presidents and bodies of the CCDRs. Mr President, I think it was important to ask Mr Prime Minister first why he put the direct election of the metropolitan areas on the electoral programme of the legislature and then put his announcement, his reform, in his pocket. It is something for the Socialist Party to announce in the electoral programmes and then not to fulfil during the term of office! We're already used to it. So don't tell me about ads. Bring the project there...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u202	It's coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u203	...and then we discussed this project. It's not worth talking about esoteric things.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u204	It's coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u205	Come on, let's go. If we arrive as the others have arrived, we will wait another four years, because you usually promise and then fail. So, right now, that's a non-assuming. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u206	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Joacine Katar Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I will vote in favour of legislative initiatives for regionalisation and for the creation of administrative regions. We are going to move forward successively, we are moving forward successively to postpone a more decentralizing, more egalitarian policy, and we are moving forward successively to delay the reduction of social and territorial asymmetries. at a time when there is a euphoria of the environment, we are also putting forward a more effective fight against climate change. The time for regionalisation was not yesterday, nor is it tomorrow; it is time for regionalisation today!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u208	Mr Vasconcelos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After about 46 years since the April Revolution, Portugal remains one of the most centralist countries in Europe, politically and administratively. It must be said that the central power consumes about 90 % of the state's financial resources, which makes a dead letter of the so propagated principle of subsidiarity. As we all know, since 1976 the Constitution of the Republic has advocated the principle of subsidiarity, and thus the principle of decentralization of powers. Where to? For democratically elected bodies by citizens: Freguesas, municipalities and regions. Of course, the process initiated by the previous government for the decentralization of competences for the parish and municipalities has deliberately forgotten the issue of regionalization. However, effective decentralization, true decentralization will only be carried out with regionalisation. Several parties have taken several initiatives over time to hinder what our Constitution of the Republic says. We all know that there are parties that are against the Constitution. The CDS itself voted against the Constitution! Mr. André Ventura, of the Arrival, said, recently: « I am in the paints for what the Constitution says! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Perhaps it will also be in the paints for democracy, for which it was April 25th. However, the reason why you are sitting here is due to the Constitution of the Republic on 25 April and to democracy! [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u210	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to take a step further. That is why the Independent Commission for Decentralisation has moved forward with an interesting proposal for the creation of administrative regions. It is also known that, a short time ago, in the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the strong point of discussion of the autarchs was the topic of regionalization. Even last year, in a survey of the ISCTE ( University Institute of Lisbon ), 77 % of the autoarchs of several political quadrants were in favour of the regionalisation process. What the previous government did, and the current government continues, was to put its head in the sand like the ostrich, along with the PSD, and they negotiated an agreement for decentralization, an agreement for the Community funds, including, and deliberately forgot the regionalisation process. I see, finally, with pleasure, that the PSD apparently wants to discuss regionalization and move forward to this process. Our draft resolution actually points out that the debate should begin, a concrete debate, which could be concluded in 2021 with this process, with this wish, which is important. By the way, who's afraid of regionalization? Why has a set of obstacles, such as the referendum, been introduced over time to prevent regionalisation? [[CH protests.]] It must be said that regionalisation gives more democracy, more power of decision to citizens, brings citizens closer to power in a more demanding way. It is therefore necessary to move forward with this process, a process that ultimately consumes what is reflected in our Constitution. The effective process of decentralization will be completed only if it respects those three standards: decentralisation for the parish, for the municipalities and for the regions, in this case administrative regions. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u211	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Cancela Moura, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD follows the initiatives of the PCP and the Left Block only in the need to trigger an extended public debate on the subnational organization of the State. However, both the CFP and the Block have a selective opinion on the conclusions of the final report of the Independent Commission for Decentralisation, citing only, for convenience and in part, what really matters to the motivation of its positions. In fact, the recommendation of a constitutional review to assess the elimination of the second question, of regional scope, is not artificial and indeed poses a real risk. Indeed, the report itself concludes on the risk and consequences of maintaining that question. I quote: “In fact, if there is a result in which the ‘ yes ’ loses the tangent only in one region and gains overwhelmingly in all other regions, then it will necessarily win the ‘ no. ’ This is because a process such that if the ‘not’ wins in one region, even if only by one vote, simultaneity obliges to reject the advance to regionalization, without aggravating or appealing, considering itself defeated the overwhelming national majority who voted’ yes. Do not keep on seeking. ” Either the 1998 referendum serves as a lesson and we learn from the mistakes of then, or it is guaranteed that a new referendum will definitely compromise regionalization. According to the technical basis of that final report, before there is a referendum, it is still necessary to consider the possible amendment to Article 256. the Constitution; adopt a framework law of the administrative regions; the law of the regional division of the continent, with its map, list of the municipalities included in each region and indication of its own headquarters; the electoral law and finally the law of regional finances. It therefore seems, despite the kindness of the proposals and the premises of the Bloc and the PCP, that the timetables of the draft resolutions present to us are not compatible with this wish. It's almost like starting from the end to the beginning! But our greatest doubt on this path lies in the Government and the Socialist Party, which, in the area of reforms, is not the intention. In April 2018, after two years of non-definition and impasse in the process of decentralisation, the PSD, on behalf of the national interest, signed a joint declaration with the Government that dealt with two topics, indissociable from one another: the transfer of competences to the authorities and the reform of the subnational organization of the State. With regard to the first one, the Government did the full and failed at all: it failed to legislate the sectoral diplomas in more than 15 months; it failed to do so, because the possibility of accepting and rejecting competences in 2019 and 2020 ceased to have useful effect; it failed to define the financial envelopes for the exercise of new competences and the budgetary allocation of the Decentralisation Financing Fund, which were not included in the 2019 and 2020 budgets ; it failed, in millions, to comply with the Local Finance Act. If the Government and the PS have repeatedly breached the first part of the agreement, what guarantees can the country meet the second one? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u213	To close the debate, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After more than 40 years since the adoption of our Constitution, which aims to create the administrative regions, and has spent more than 20 years since the referendum, I believe that there are two conclusions which can be drawn and which are interconnected. The first is that the model of centralist organization that currently persists in our country is not the one that serves the country, it is not the one that serves the populations, it is not the one that allows the regional development and the elimination of asymmetries. Consequently, from here on, the second conclusion that we can draw is that, in fact, regionalization and the creation of administrative regions are fundamental as a means of regional development, strengthening and deepening our democratic regime, promoting and encouraging popular participation to give more power to the people in the definition of options for their territories, to give greater coherence to the organization of the State. This enables not only a real link between central, regional and local administrations, in order to improve public services, to be more efficient and to have more quality, but also, through this way, to optimize public resources, enabling faster decisions with regional power, not being subjugated or under the supervision of the central administration and its ministers—as are today, for example, the coordination and regional development committees—and even the strengthening of the autonomy of local power. It was with these assumptions that the CFP brought this proposal to debate. What reveals the process of the transfer of existing competences is indeed an absence, and the absence is regionalization, the absence is the creation of administrative regions, because there are a set of competences that are effectively not good in central administration, but that does not mean that they are good in local administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u215	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u216	What is needed is, in fact, a regional power to give this coherence. The CCDRs, since its establishment in 1979, have always been used as an argument that this would be the step towards regionalisation, but 40 years later they continue to be the obstacle to their realization. Contrary to the party of the Arrival, for which rights, public services, the democratic regime, the Constitution, can all go to the garbage can, as stated here, we have a completely different view and we will continue to fight all the anti-democratic prospects that arise.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u217	All right! [[CH protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u218	The question concerning this debate is, in fact, to give more power to the people—we have no fear of this matter—we are closer, more quality in the provision of public service and also more efficiency in the administrative organization of the State, including the management of public resources, such as financial and human resources. The question that arises in this debate is this: we do not miss the opportunity that has been created today by this agenda of the CFP to take this important step towards the implementation of the administrative regions. If today we had brought the debate to the framework law, the financing law, the electoral model, the Members. Members said that the same had been anticipated, that there had not been the necessary reflection and would then find a set of pretexts for not moving forward. We took another option. In the vote tomorrow, if you take the decision to move forward and we will discuss what are, in fact, the competences, as the administrative regions will be created, what will be the electoral and financing model. [[CH protests.]] That there is indeed this public debate, as proposed, but that this is not used as a pretext for not moving forward towards something that is perfectly fundamental to our country. That this opportunity should not be missed, indeed, if we can take a fundamental step towards creating regionalisation and, more than that, a fundamental step towards responding to the specific problems of the population, a fundamental step for regional development and public investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u219	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u220	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u221	These are the themes that are placed on the table, and this is the responsibility that the various parties will have tomorrow at the time of the vote: if, in fact, we are going to seek, in a serious and constructive way, the consensus to move forward, or if we are going to continue with pretexts for the creation of administrative regions to continue to be postponed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u222	We thus conclude the discussion of draft resolutions 148 and 220 / XIV / 1. a. The vote will be taken tomorrow during the voting period. We will move to the third point of the order of business, which consists in the assessment of the draft resolution No 18 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government, when exceeding the maximum response time guaranteed for first consultation in the National Health Service, ensure users the freedom to access this consultation at any other hospital to their choice either from the public, private or social sector. To present this draft resolution, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Imagine, for a second, that you live in the Guard and that your family doctor referred you to a first cardiology specialty consultation at Sousa Martins Hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u224	Well-spoken!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u225	You'll see, sir! You'll see!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u226	I know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u227	By law, the maximum response time guaranteed is 150 days, but the actual waiting time is 1814 days, that is, 4 years and 11 months! If the gentlemen. Members have no ADSE ( Institute for Protection and Assistance in Diseases ), if they do not have health insurance, if they are unable to pay the consultation in private, there is nothing left but waiting for 4 years and 11 months, with all that that may entail in terms of deterioration of your health condition. The same will happen in Faro, where, if you need a first orthopedic consultation, the maximum guaranteed response time is 150 days, but the wait is 1309 days, or in Leiria, where, for a neurology consultation, the wait is 899 days, or in Coimbra, where, for an otorrin consultation, the wait is 1 year and 8 months, or at the Hospital de São João, in Porto, where the wait for a pneumology consultation is 1 year and 9 months. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it could continue with many and many more examples that show that the SNS (National Health Service) is not meeting the maximum response times, which it itself imposes, and that they realize the right to provide health care in clinically acceptable time for the condition of the patient. And, since the clinically acceptable times are not fulfilled, it increases the probability of initial health situations deteriorate, if there are comorbidities, that there is unnecessary suffering. For the CDS, the answer is simple. When we are asked what we want to offer as a solution to those who need a first specialty consultation, there are only two ways: or a consultation on time and hours where it exists, regardless of the property of the hospital; or a consultation only in the SNS, even if the patients have to wait longer, they have to wait up to four years to safeguard the patient, but the ideological purity of the political option which, moreover, was not the patient who did but, yes, the Members. Ladies and gentlemen who made him do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u228	Well, well! They talk so much in freedom!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u229	For us, the answer is obvious: what matters is to guarantee everyone, anyone, the consultation in time and time. We therefore propose that, whenever the maximum guaranteed response time is exceeded, the patient may have the freedom to choose to access this consultation in the public, private or social hospital. In the background, only transpose the same mechanism that is already practiced today commonly for surgeries with the designation SIGIC (Integrated System of Management of Inscriptions for Surgery) and the advantages are obvious: first and most of all, carry out the consultation in clinically acceptable time; second, protect and preserve early diagnoses, mitigating aggravated effects of the initial disease situation; and, of course, reduce waiting lists, relieving the SNS and also relieving its resources with obvious public health gains. If this system, which we all accept for the surgeries, is extended to consultations, and it seems to me that there is no reason, with this precedent, for it is not and there are more than 700 000 Portuguese waiting for the first consultation of specialty, and knowing that, for example, in January this year, at the Central Lisbon Hospital Centre, there were 60 000 cases, so we would have the ability to respond to these cases and we would have the ability to alleviate their health situation. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is simple and it is in your hands to resolve the situation of these 700 000 Portuguese people tomorrow, voting in favour of the CDS bill. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u230	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: They're late, but they don't fail. After years of cutting off the investment in the National Health Service ; after they cried out to the exhaustion that what was needed was a weaker state, with fewer workers, knowing that this would affect all sectors, including the National Health Service ; after they had done what they could to deny State workers, including those in the National Health Service, and to degrade their working conditions and incomes ; after closing up health centres, hospitals, services in some units, concentrating services until they became ingovernable, they now cry out that the National Health Service is ingovernable, they criticize the lack of employees, accuse the little investment in the media, point the finger to those who leave people without consultations, all this in an alliance, as few times have been seen, involving the sectors of the right most reactionary in this Parliament and outside it, but also institutions whose aim should be to defend and not deprive the SNS to defend the professionals without consultation, all of them, trying to create the idea of which we are all wrong. And now, after they have delivered the large units to the gula of private interests, accompanied, moreover, by the PS, which, still this week, renewed their love for private management, opening again competition for the PPP of the Cascais hospital, arrived at a new level, wanting to privatize the specialist consultations. They want to open the door, they know the value of the steps that can be taken when an arrow is opened, and that is why they voted against the proposal aimed at the end of the moderation rates, the poorest will not have to pay anything tomorrow for this right. We know the difficulties of the SNS, we know the problems and we bring them here often, we know who are responsible for these difficulties — PS, PSD and CDS — but we also know two things, Mrs. Members: firstly, that the SNS is one of the most important and fruitful constructions in Portugal in April, that the benches on the right cannot support, and that it is still one of the best in the world today, guaranteeing the same rights to the entire Portuguese population ; secondly, that the problems in the SNS are not resolved by drawing from the State budget to give to private health groups. The problems are solved by hiring more doctors, more nurses, more technicians, more assistants to the National Health Service. This, yes, is the way! [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u232	Mr Paulo Marques of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u233	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating the CDS on bringing this issue to this House, since it helps us to understand better what we want for the SNS and for those who want it and, once again, the CDS has brought us here a solution that seems simple, easy and cheap, but it is not.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u234	Don't you? Oh, my God! So wait four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u235	I would like to take this opportunity to enhance the transparency exercise of the Government, which in the previous Parliament decided to establish the definition of the so-called "maximum guaranteed response times" in order to establish quality standards to be achieved in the SNS. That is how we see the emergence of this measure. Eventually, it would be easier if this planning exercise, which aims to achieve quality standards in the SNS, did not exist or was even hidden. But the government's path in the SNS has not been given to misconceptions. The objective of the PS is to make the National Health Service more capable, more robust, more innovative and a true engine for development in promoting the provision of health care to Portuguese. As was said in the last election campaign, the PS has in its health its main commitment to this legislation with the Portuguese. Let us see what we have today in the SNS: we have more users in the system; we have more consultations and surgeries carried out; we have more health professionals; we have more Portuguese with a family doctor assigned; and, even in the last State Budget, approved a few days ago, we have the largest initial budget allocation of always in the National Health Service. We hope that the SNS will be able to improve its response capacity every day. Today we have new challenges that have not existed before, and it is with them that the SNS has to debate. We have today an older population; we are introducing new medical specialties into the Service; we have diagnostic equipment that we need to replace; we have facilities that need renewal; and, in some cases, we even have to make new health equipment. Honestly, we do not understand that this proposal can add any significant improvement to the users of the National Health Service. The goal of the SNS is to be able to follow throughout life, I say, throughout life,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u236	It's really a lifetime!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u237	... users and that's what we have to focus our efforts on. However, if we have to resort to services outside the SNS on a timely basis, as we are already doing with the surgeries, as Mrs McMahon said, we will do - without political-ideological prejudices or complexes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u238	So you're going to approve our project!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u239	In Portugal we live happily in a market economy where public, private and social supply coexist. That's right! And that will continue to be the case. Taking a consultation, which is something that the honourable Member should not have done,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u240	Be careful! Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u241	... to the Health Care Access Report at the SNS Establishments and Conventioned Entities, it may be verified that there has been a percentage of compliance with the response times guaranteed in the order of 70 % in the area of the first consultation. Yes, we know that we have a long way to go here, because we still need to reach 30 % for the ideal situation. Now, what we don't want is to push SNS users out of the system, to access specialist consultations and follow up on chronic diseases. Don't! We don't want that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u242	Yeah, no! We want a consultation!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u243	We see no improvement in this for users in the medium and long term. These issues are not resolved by a one-time consultation, but by a specialized and permanent follow-up. In fact, the wording of the draft resolution, presented by the CDS, contains in itself a deep territorial inequality, fully expressed in the examples set out in your project. What we want is that there is the same level of availability of service in the SNS, regardless of where Portugal is. We are available, as always, to continue improving the SNS with more human resources, already promised and planned to enter along the Legislature, and with new health equipment.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u244	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude. It's been a long time since he had it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u245	I will now finish, Mr President. In summary, we are available to have more and better SNS. Now, for what we are not available is to build a highway for this type of offer outside the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u246	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent years, Portuguese have witnessed a growing and evident deterioration in conditions of access to the National Health Service. This deterioration is particularly visible in surgeries, specialist hospital consultations and complementary diagnostic and therapeutic examinations in which patients wait and hope for months of care to which they are entitled. This has also been the subject of the Court of Auditors'reports, the Health Regulatory Entity, and also the Government itself. For example, according to the latest Health Care Access Report in the National Health Service, the percentage of hospital consultations carried out outside the guaranteed maximum response times — Mr Paulo Marques, that is for you! — increased since 2015. Thus, the average waiting time of patients for surgery in public hospitals increased from 27 days in 2015 to 39 days in 2018, an increase of 14 %. And if we consult the SNS Portal, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are no cases in which users of the National Health Service are required to wait long months, years until, to have access to consultations, surgeries and diagnostic examinations they lack. As an example, I will say that the maximum waiting times guaranteed, that the honourable Member has boasted that they have put in the law, in the case of orthopedic surgeries, in which the maximum waiting time set is 180 days, is exceeded in 608 days. For example, the waiting time that you have set for the 150-day cardiology consultations is exceeded in 1814 days. These are just two examples, but I have a complete list of examples of gross increases and large surpluses of the average waiting times, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u248	Because of the cuts you've made! Because of your brute cuts!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u249	I would like to tell you that the PSD does not comply with this situation, so you proposed in your Election Programme, in the last elections, the extension of the SIGIC of surgeries to specialist consultations and complementary examinations, when they were not carried out in acceptable terms, as is the case. And we have proposed this very much again in the debate, in the speciality, of the State budget. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what have the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the Communist Party and the PAN done about this proposal? Let me tell you: they voted against! You voted against the PSD proposal, thereby preventing patients from having faster access to consultations and examinations in the National Health Service. That's what this is about!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u250	We need to strengthen the SNS, it is not to transfer more money to the private!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u251	Ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I will say the following: still yesterday, we had the sad news of a death after four hours of waiting, in the urgency of the Beja hospital. I would like to tell you that the response of the National Health Service must be rapid and effective.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u252	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u253	For all this, the PSD will monitor this CDS resolution project. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u254	For an intervention on behalf of the PAN Parliamentary Group, Mrs Bebiana Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u255	Mr President, I welcome the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Regarding this draft resolution of the CDS, in fact, data relating to the maximum guaranteed response times are expressive and very worrying, leading us to look at this problem without neglecting those that seem to us to be root reflections. Health responses must be made as a commitment by any government. In Portugal, waiting times in fundamental areas tell us that we need to invest more, better and structured in health, in order not to be continuously covering debts, and also to invest in a much more integrated way in prevention, which will reduce health costs. We have already questioned the government several times in order to know what the investment made in prevention and when we will approach the European media. of the Government's responses, we conclude that there is no really integrated and measurable bet on preventive measures. If this root work is not done, we will continue, year after year, maintaining or increasing waiting times. It is essential that the National Health Service serves its purposes of providing timely and quality care. We have no doubt about the commitment, competence, responsibility and effort that health professionals daily demonstrate, in an attempt to give the best health responses in our SNS. We know that the SNS lacks structural investments, that we need to do, and that without these, we are just putting the problem behind us. The latest data from the INE (National Institute of Statistics), still provisional, tell us that, for every 100,000 inhabitants, there are 216 doctors, 362 nurses and 76 diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, for example. They are manifestly low numbers for the daily needs of our population. The NAP does not have a limited, limited or prejudiced view of the use of health services in the private or social sectors. We believe that each sector has its role in society and that there can even be a complementarity, provided that properly regulated, without any losses to only one of the parties, as has happened. in this sense, in the face of numbers and scenarios — present and prospective — regarding health, we believe that, above all, the needs of people must be ensured. The Government must not forget its competences and responsibilities with regard to health in Portugal. There is still a great deal to be done to ensure prompt care and to ensure what is essential: access to health by our population, Portuguese and Portuguese, thus also combating social inequalities. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u256	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u257	Mr. President, the remedy of the National Health Service is the National Health Service, which means that this legislative initiative is completely fallacious. If we need to reduce the waiting list, if we need to improve service and services and invest in specialties and if there are millions of citizens completely dependent on the SNS, it is because it is necessary to strengthen the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u258	Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, the waiting time for consultations of certain hospital specialities in Portugal, in the National Health Service, is a problem. In many hospitals, waiting time is good, because it respects the maximum response times guaranteed, but in many others it does not happen. In fact, this is not understood and is not compatible with a quality SNS having several months of waiting to access hospital specialty consultations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u260	You understand perfectly! It's not months, it's years!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u261	That is a great debate to be held here. However, that is not the debate the CDS-PP brings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u262	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u263	If this was the debate that the CDS-PP brings, we would now be discussing proposals to, for example, reformulate the careers of professionals to increase the capture and fixation of professionals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u264	That was the Block debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u265	... to establish, for example, rules for the training of more professionals and for the placement of more specialists in the National Health Service, for example, to review the mandatory number of hours that doctors specialists have to make in emergencies. Perhaps this could be something to revisit, as the medical unions propose, so that there is more time for specialist consultations and that this time is not so consumed by mandatory hours of urgency. These would be proposals to avoid the problem of waiting time for access to specialist consultations. However, the proposal that the CDS-PP brings is another and it is on another subject. It's about a check-in...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u266	In fact, we called it "good", but it can also be "check"!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u267	... to transfer the budget of the National Health Service to private hospitals. It is another of the various proposals that the CDS-PP regularly brings to the Assembly of the Republic in order to make use of the budget of the National Health Service...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u268	To solve people's problems!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u269	...to leverage the private health business. This is certainly not a proposal or a discussion on the time for access to specialist consultations. In fact, we understand the context of this proposal. It introduces itself in a clear competition that is done on the right, from the extreme right, that defends the privatization of the National Health Service,... [[CH protests.]] ... to the right falsely liberal, which defends all that is public subsidies to private business, and to the public-private partnership ( PPP ), which often replaces the PSD logo. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] There is indeed a fierce competition on the right to see who is best friends of economic interest. Now, this competition has nothing to do with the Block, it has nothing to do with the National Health Service and, therefore, we will not enter it. Indeed, the discussion that requires users is not what is being done here today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u270	Mr João Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this draft resolution, here is the CDS defending another opportunity of business expansion for the large economic groups operating in the field of health.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u272	And by now, people, if they can be!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u273	Ask Bernardino if you want to finish loures' PPP!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u274	If today there are weaknesses in the National Health Service — and they do not, we do not hide them — they manifest themselves daily in the difficulties that the population faces in access to health care and are due to the options of the governments of the PS, the PSD and the CDS. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa.]] We do not forget that it was your government, PSD / CDS, which further deepened the dismantling of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u275	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u276	And, indeed, the current government of the PS, like the former, resists to correct this situation. It was right-wing policies that reduced the number of workers, ended with specific careers, turned hospitals into companies, transferred patients and financial resources to large economic groups operating in the health sector and put companies, whose purpose is profit, managing hospitals. All this with a clear objective: to take advantage of the disease for a very lucrative business. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The disrespect for guaranteed maximum response times is a sign of obvious structural inadequacies and is not with the increase in promiscuity between the public and private sectors or with the transfer of more resources to the private that solves the problem, it is with the investment of these resources in the SNS. The PCP cannot monitor this CDS project. This would be on the side of those who, since their creation, have always sought to discredit and destroy him so that they can market health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u277	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u278	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u279	Of course, there is a lack of health professionals and, if there was a reduction in services and valences, it is not surprising that there are high waiting times for consultations, surgeries, examinations, treatments, as we know very well. Therefore, only with adequate funding from the National Health Service, with the hiring of health professionals in need and the guarantee of their rights, with the strengthening of services and valences at the level of primary health care and hospital care, with the reversal of public-private partnerships can be ensured the accessibility of users to health care to which they are entitled. That is why the CFP fights: fights for the guarantee of the right to health for all, regardless of their economic and social conditions; fights for the valorization and strengthening of the National Health Service; fights for the adoption of structural measures to strengthen the response capacity of the National Health Service throughout the territory. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP understands that the National Health Service should be a right of all Portuguese, poor or rich,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u280	It's just not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u281	...and not a business area. It is therefore necessary to have a clear bet in a public service run by the State, based on the proximity of citizens, that there is no obstacle to access to care.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u282	People waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u283	It is from this National Health Service that the different governments have gone away and that is the path that needs to be reversed. The Portuguese know that they can count on the CFP to promote these advances. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u284	Four years of waiting! People know that too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u285	Mr Ventura, from arrive, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u286	Mr President, and yet they continue to die. While the PCP makes a beautiful speech to us that « we will fight the PPPs », that « the united people will never be defeated », we continue to wait for more than 1000 days, people continue to die in the hospital of Lamego and in the hospital of Beja. Why? Because «the great struggle continues», until one day there is no more struggle to do, as long as people continue to die. We discuss tomorrow, in this House, assisted death. And no more: today we have a project — which is not enough, so I am prepared to say this — which proposes that only when we have exceeded the maximum waiting time can we have access to other services. Basically, what is said is: "To save life, when there is no longer a service that takes, we go there to the private or social sector. But no! PCP doesn't leave, Block doesn't like and PS doesn't get engaged. It's always been this way and yet people are going to die and continue to lose services. And the PCP asks : « Good, but where are the PPPs of Cascais, Loures, etc. Is that what you're talking about? » There is no, sir! They're missing services. They're not born one day for the other. It is curious that Mr. Moisés Ferreira is talking about this. There was another Moses — not this one, but the Bible Moses — who said that the water, when it did not come out of a rock, went out from another, and could come from one or another. Mr. Moses Ferreira, I should read the Bible to realize that sometimes when there is no solution, there is another.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u287	Thank you very much, Mr. It's over.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u288	When there's no way, there's another way. And when there is no patriotic and united left way,... [[Protests from BE Member Sandra Cunha.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u289	Your time has already been exceeded. That's enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u290	...there is a way to save the lives of the Portuguese. This should be the priority and unfortunately not the priority of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u291	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Liberal Initiative will never be on the side of those who tolerate people suffering and dying pending consultation, surgery, a purely ideological preconceived examination. Health has no ideology.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u293	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u294	We will always be with those who want better services and health care for the citizens. We don't care if they come from the public or private or social. I repeat: health has no ideology!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u295	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u296	What we cannot accept today is what happens: incredible waiting times, people who die while waiting, public hospitals in systematic accumulation of debts to suppliers, indicating that there is an operational deficit that no one takes and that no one wants to solve. There are emergency or specialty services that are either in the middle of the gas or closing, as is the case with the obstetric service of S. Bernardo Hospital, which is at risk of closing this week. This is not admissible! People have the right to good health care, provided on time, wherever they are, whoever they are. That is why we proposed extending the IGC SNS to the services of the social and private sector with the aim of eliminating waiting lists for specialist consultations and examinations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u297	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u298	I'm done now, Mr. President. Our initiative was plunged into this House with the votes of the PS, the PCP, the Bloc and the PAN. These gentlemen. Members have not yet realized that people's health cannot wait or have ideology.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u299	And so we came to the end of the debate and we also finished our agenda...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u300	Mr. President, I am registered to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u301	True, the CDS-PP is registered. Indeed, the CDS-PP has the right to close the debate. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I give you the floor with great pleasure. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u302	It's my taste, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Moisés Ferreira, I am a bit tired of being told what the debate should be, particularly if it is the debate that has to be done with Mr Ferreira's proposals. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] I even propose that if you want to have your debate, you should put forward proposals, and we do so. But let me now make my debate on my proposals if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u303	All right! [[Protests from PCP MP João Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u304	Mrs. Members, the objective of the CDS will certainly surprise you, because it is not the SNS. The SNS is instrumental to what should be the objective that unites us all, which is to care for people's health. That's what matters. I hear you here talking about the workers, about the conditions of the SNS, but I hear you very little about the patients. Do you want to talk about the patients and the needs they want to see solved?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u305	All right! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u306	I'd like you to meet me. Members would explain to a person who lives in the Guard and who's been waiting for four years, it's good that he's waiting because, otherwise, he's dealing with the promiscuity of the SNS with the private. Explain this well, because that person will certainly understand and will sit quietly waiting, quiet, because that is what is worth...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u307	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u308	For you, having consultation is secondary, what matters is that this person is not being conjugated by the promiscuity of the health business. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, be patient! In addition, if the number of SNS consultations is efficient, if the SNS has the ability to respond, what we are proposing ends up not being implemented. So don't be worried!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u309	You have no responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u310	The millions who want to invest in the SNS budget will certainly solve the problem and this proposal will soon lose its validity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u311	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u312	But while they do not, these people will not have to wait just because you understand that there is great promiscuity here. On the other hand, Mr Paulo Marques, just to conclude, would bear in mind that the honourable Member has spoken but that he has certainly not read in paragraph 4(d) says the following: « It is the duty of the SNS to inform the patient whenever the ability to respond to the SNS establishments is not adequate and whenever there is the possibility of reference to other SNS establishments or (... ) » — note well, Mr! — « (...) for other entities with agreements or conventions for the provision of the same type of care». So it was your government that already opened the door...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u313	Well, well! Exactly! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u314	... where the maximum guaranteed response times are not respected, consultations may be held where there are agreements or conventions. It's just that later they didn't make the agreements or the conventions. It was just following your own idea. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u315	Let us now end the sitting, not without first giving account of tomorrow's agenda, whose plenary meeting will take place at 3 p.m. The first point is the joint assessment of Bill 4 / XIV / 1. a (BE) — defines and regulates the conditions in which the anticipation of death, by decision of the person himself with definitive injury or incurable and fatal disease and who is in lasting and unbearable suffering, is not punishable, 67 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Regulates Access to Assisted Medicine Death, 104 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Proceeds to 50. the amendment to the Penal Code, regulating the special conditions for the practice of non-punishable euthanasia, 168 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Defines the regime and conditions under which assisted drug death is not punishable and 195 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — regulates the anticipation of the end of life, in a dignified, conscious manner and assisted medicine. of the second point, with no time assigned, is draft Deliberation No. 7 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Sets out the composition, distribution and list of parliamentary friendship groups in the XIV Legislation. There will also be a legislative vote, the vote of the draft laws I indicated, and, as agreed today at the Conference of Leaders, the vote will be nominal, in alphabetical order, in which each Member will say as a vote the drafts, which he favourably votes, or which he votes 'yes', which he votes 'no' and for which he abstains. That is what was decided today at the Conference of Leaders. So it's not worth it tomorrow, we're wasting time on this issue. The House is duly informed that this will be the case. Meanwhile, even before the end of the session, Ms.Secretariat Sofia Araújo will report on some initiatives that have now entered the Bureau. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, draft resolution No 262 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government not to authorize the alienation of State-owned dams to EDP, which falls to 11. the Commission, and Draft Deliberation No 7 / XIV / 1. a ( PAR) — Sets out the composition, distribution and list of parliamentary friendship groups in the XIV Legislation. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-19.u317	Thank you very much, Secretary Sofia Araújo. And that's how we end our plenary meeting today. I wish everyone a good afternoon. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 14 minutes.]]
