ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] Mrs. Members, first of all, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha will report on the long file she has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First, I refer to Law No 30 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Other exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the disease pandemic COVID-19. The following bills were also entered in the Table: No. 343 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Sets restrictions on advertising in games and bets ( tenth amendment to the Advertising Code, approved by Decree-Law No 330 / 90 of 23 October ) ; No 344 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Integrated measures to respond to the effects of the COVID-19 outbreak on the wine sector; No 352 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen protection measures for victims of domestic violence ( sixth amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September ) ; paragraph 353 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Definition of rules and regulations for waste management operations, which fall to 11. the Commission ; point 354 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensures extraordinary support for the income of micro-enterprises and workers on an individual basis due to the reduction of economic activity by the COVID-19 epidemic ; No 355 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a family support scheme in the frequency of child support equipment; No 356 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Exceptional and temporary scheme for the prohibition of the distribution of dividends to the bank, the financial sector, large companies and economic groups; No 357 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Emergency measures for micro and small enterprises; No 358 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Support for victims of violence at a time of pandemic; No. 359 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By introducing measures to allow for the reopening of the field of fun roaming companies, meeting the health security requirements and by introducing transitional economic measures aimed at reducing the damage and damage caused by the COVID 19 disease pandemic, which falls to 6. the Commission ; No 360 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 14 - G / 2020 of 13 April, which establishes the exceptional and temporary measures in the area of education in the context of the COVID 19 pandemic ; No 361 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protection of children or young people in their well-being and healthy development (Thirty-sixth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, the sixth amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of their victims and the fifteenth amendment to the Criminal Code) ; point 362 / XIV/1. a ( PAN) — Prevents payment of shareholder and bonus remuneration by credit institutions and by companies that have received public support due to the epidemiological situation caused by the diseaseCOVID-19 ( second amendment of Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ) ; No 363 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the protection of micro, small and medium-sized business partners ( amends to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ) ; No 364 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Express consecration of the crime of exposure of minor domestic violence (fiftyth amendment to the Criminal Code). The following draft resolutions were added to the Bureau: No 405 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Information to citizens on best practices of waste disposal, such as protective masks and gloves, which falls to 11. the Commission ; point 415 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures to improve and increase the resilience of the SIRESP network proposed by ANACOM and the Ministry of Internal Administration following the 2017 fires, which falls to 1. the Commission ; point 416 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — For parental equality in exceptional support for the family, which falls to 10. the Commission ; No 417 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the creation and wide dissemination of a communication campaign to raise awareness of populations for the proper packaging and storage of household waste; No 418 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — National awareness campaign on the correct deposition of individual protective material waste against the COVID-19 pandemic and, where possible, the use of reusable materials; No 419 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Plan for the recovery of planned activity in the National Health Service, which goes down to 9. the Commission ; point 420 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — Recommends that the Government maintain national final examinations for the approval of disciplines and completion of secondary education and that it use spaces under the height of the authorities to carry out the relevant teaching tests, which falls to 8. the Commission ; point 421 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Defines exceptional measures relating to the payment of day care during the period of influence of COVID-19 ; No 422 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Measures to achieve the rights of deaf persons and to enhance the Portuguese Gestive Interpreter profession, which falls to 10. the Commission in connection with 13. the Commission ; point 423 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the protection of families with dependents enrolled in day care and kindergartens and ensures the sustainability of these educational equipment; No. 424 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — The conduct of a national information campaign on waste disposal used in the prevention of the current health crisis; No 425 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote good practice in relation to individual protective equipment for the prevention of the contagio of the new coronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ). In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u3	Thank you, Secretary. Before we get on the agenda, I would like to ask the services to solve quickly the computer problem that has to do with the fact that the indication of « presence to register » appears. It's just the ladies. Members have to stay in the Chamber as long as that happens. You do not realize why these things continue to happen at the end of so many days, but I hope that this situation will be resolved quickly. of the first item on our agenda is the joint discussion, in general, of the Bill No 28 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of its victims and drafts of Law No 352 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Strengthen protection measures for victims of domestic violence ( sixth amendment to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September ), 358 / XIV / 1. a (PEV) — Support for victims of violence at a time of pandemic, 361 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Protection of children or young people in their well-being and healthy development ( thirty-sixth amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure, sixth amendment to the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of their victims and fifty-seventh amendment to the Criminal Code) and 364 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Express empowerment of the crime of exposure of minor domestic violence (fiftyth amendment to the Criminal Code). On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to the Minister of State and the Presidency, Mariana Vieira da Silva, whom I take advantage of to congratulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the beginning of 2019, we were confronted with a particularly tragic dimension of domestic violence cases. The successive episodes recorded at the beginning of last year, as well as the work of the retrospective analysis team, made some weaknesses of the protection system visible to victims of domestic violence. The government did not legislate quickly, but acted decisively so that it could give the necessary answers. He appointed a multidisciplinary committee with a clear mandate to identify fragility in protecting victims of domestic violence and point solutions, particularly within 72 hours immediately after the complaint. The Government has been consistent and has consistently implemented the recommendations of the Multidisciplinary Technical Commission for the Improvement of Prevention and Combating Domestic Violence. The bill that we discussed here materializes precisely some of these recommendations, which will give more protection to victims of domestic violence and gender-based violence. More protection, because it strengthens the protection of victims, through an improvement of the risk assessment within the first 72 hours, with the obligation of the authorities to carry out, within that period, evidentiary procedures for assessing the family environment of the victim. Strengthens the protection of victims, allowing the criminal investigation judge to decide, on a provisional basis, for example, several issues related to minors, thus implementing an integrated judicial approach, corresponding to the recommendations of the multidisciplinary team but also to international recommendations, such as GREVIO ( Expert Group on Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence ). It strengthens the protection of the victims, allowing the same judge to declare provisional measures of civil protection. And finally, it strengthens the protection of victims by extending and harmonizing data collection, with a view to systematizing the production of information that enables them to study, understand and act better on the whole cycle of domestic violence. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in many matters, but in particular in the field of domestic violence and gender-based violence, we have always had this House for a frank dialogue around the best solutions to protect victims, disagreeing rarely and agreeing in most solutions. Today, as on many other occasions, we count on Parliament's contribution to deepening the discussion on the subject in order to find the best answers for the victims and to leave this House as consensualized as possible, because it will be as strong as possible, for an effective response of our system of prevention and combating domestic violence. We live in a time of health emergency, but we know that we have other urgent needs to respond: it is the case of urgency that we have to respond better to the victims of domestic violence, and that is what is at stake with today's discussion of this bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u5	To ask for clarification, Mr Ventura of the Arrival, to whom I give the floor, was inscribed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u6	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr Minister, the bill that brings us here today deals with a fundamental issue, a crime that has increased — it was foreseeable that it would increase — in the specific time of confinement that we had. However, it is important to understand why associations and judges were essentially against this proposal and it is also important that the clarifications that have to be given today should be given. There will be a provisional decision by a criminal judge. What happens if a trial is already under way in a family court? What happens if a previous decision has been made by a family judge? Or what happens if, later on, a different decision is taken by the competent judge, who is the family judge and minor? In addition to the doubts of constitutionality, which are raised with the exchanges and with the confusion of the specialization that is made here, the Government brings another proposal: 72 hours for an expert risk test. All — Public Prosecutor's Office, police and courts — say it's not the hours involved, it's the lack of means. And it is not worth telling us, Mrs Minister, that it is 72 hours, or an hour, or even we could say, half an hour, because if there is no means for the authorities to carry out this expert evidence, nothing can be done in this matter. Therefore, there are two very specific issues which not only Parliament but above all the associations of judges have placed and which is very important for the government to resolve on such a crucial issue as this.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u7	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u8	Mr President, Mr Ventura, first of all, I would like to point out that this process has been going on for a few months. Between February and March, our proposal was available for public discussion, then we made the mandatory consultations and it takes an even longer period, if we take into account the report of the Technical Monitoring Committee, which has been known for a long time. The importance, for our system, of the specialization of the courts should not prevent us from identifying, where they exist, moments when this has produced segmentation in the treatment of certain matters. We have sought to find a balance — which we know is difficult and which we often discuss here — an integrated response within the framework that our Constitution allows. What we allow is that there is a provisional measure, because the final decision is always of the specialized court and this is not called into question, but we cannot close our eyes to the retrospective analysis of the team and GREVIO, when they tell us that there was a problem of counter-decisions and a need for convergence. As for the 72 hour question, it is not us who define it, it is the law, and what we seek is a solution to respond to the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u9	For an intervention by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Domestic violence is a violation of human rights, an abominable crime which unfortunately represents a social scourge of great proportions. We talk about women, children and men who sometimes live years or even their entire lives, suffering physical, psychological and sexual violence in the context of family relationships or intimacy. Today, let us once again look at this problem in an attempt to find the best solutions. It must not be forgotten that, rather than changing legislation, it is essential to strengthen the conditions for its effectiveness, and this has been claimed by both civil society organizations and the rule of law itself. The fight against domestic violence is due to the change in the economic, social and cultural reality underlying it, as is also due to the training of the various public services and resources that will be called upon to intervene and respond to these situations, from the security forces to the National Health Service (NSS), to education, social security, to the criminal investigation bodies and to the judicial apparatus. Having said that, today, the Assembly of the Republic is called upon to discuss the Government's proposal, which essentially aims to intervene on the problem of articulation between family and juvenile courts and criminal courts, seeking a coordinated approach that gives priority to the protection and safety of victims of domestic violence through a sharing of tasks that aims to ensure timely decisions appropriate for purposes. It is enough to say that, when we talk about cases of domestic violence, most of the time, children and other dependents are involved or simply that any situation that, in fact, consubstantial domestic violence constitutes a violation of duty of respect, which is therefore an objective cause of divorce. In other words, the multifaceted nature of this phenomenon and its implications normally promotes judicial procedures in several parallel courts, and it is from here that it can result in a risk of disharmony or even of collision of decisions, such as the inability of these decisions to protect the legal goods in question. Law No 112 / 2019, in force, establishing the regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance available to its victims, is unanimously recognized as an excellent instrument of great scope and depth. However, the reality has demonstrated limitations of the system in terms of effectiveness, speed and consistency of judicial decisions. That is why, and despite the fundamental problem that is not found in the policy area, we recognise that these difficulties need to be corrected so that, in fact, if we can meet the needs of the victims. It is from the CFP's understanding that this proposal aims to speed up and ensure greater usefulness and effectiveness in decisions. However, given the various opinions raised during its public discussion, we consider it essential to discuss the proposal further, in order to prevent the opposite effect from being achieved. As pointed out by the Supreme Council of the Magistrature and the Supreme Council of the Public Ministry, as the CFP has come to stress, all this requires strengthening of means, in particular by providing resources for multidisciplinary teams to support the judge's decision. The proposal also affects the improvement of the database of violence against women and domestic violence and adds to the composition of the Retrospective Homicide Analysis Team in Domestic Violence a representative of the National Commission for the Promotion of the Rights and Protection of Children and Youth. None of these ideas deserve our opposition. We therefore demonstrate our willingness to contribute, in particular, to the improvement of the proposed law that the Government brings to us, seeking to solve some of the problems that have been pointed out in this proposal and which deserve greater attention. The CFP did not want to waste this opportunity to solve a seemingly detailed issue, but which is an objective difficulty for victims of domestic violence. The protection of victims is, in the shortest possible time, to promote physical separation of the aggressor, making the aggression cease, but also to repel, during and after the process, retaliations and new aggressions. We are looking for shelter solutions for the victims, which prevent contact with the aggressor; however, in the process, both criminal and civil, the possibility of the victim omiting his address in the notifications made to the aggressor is not foreseen, which may frustrate the protection of the victim. Therefore, we also present a bill aimed at a timely addition to Law No 112 / 2019, in order that victims may require that their address be hidden from the aggressor in the judicial notifications that have it as their recipient. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, by means of this small amendment, are actually taking steps to protect the victims of this heinous crime. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u11	I now give the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva for an intervention by the Greens Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Domestic violence remains on the political agenda and, despite the measures taken, many women continue to be victimized. Serious violation of human rights and serious public health problem, domestic violence is a barbarity that society has to attack firmly and decisively, rejecting the old idea that « between husband and wife does not get caught». It is therefore necessary that the so-called 'territorialisation' of the response should be effective and increasingly strong, in order to cover the entire national territory and to correspond to the objectives of preventing this crime and the dramas arising from it. We have no doubt that networking between entities with responsibility for social protection, security agents, judicial authorities and non-governmental organizations, with support lines and housing networks for victims, is essential to give more effective answers. Another aspect which the Greens believe must be achieved is the creation of conditions for the victims of domestic violence, who must leave their homes, to have public support in order to ensure their inclusion and, above all, their autonomy. Not all women live this drama in the same way, and many women, particularly those of the lowest resources, end up subjecting themselves in a more prolonged way to situations of violence, because they are economically dependent on the aggressor, because they do not have to pay a house, because they do not see how to support themselves. Emotional fragility is very significant in these cases and determination to make a decision to request protection and seek help does not occur quickly. The issue of domestic violence has become an added concern factor in time of the COVID-19 pandemic. Indeed, the request and recommendation, then turned into determination, for people to be confined at home to ensure a social distance that was more effective in the prevention and containment of the spread of the virus led many victims of domestic violence to stay all day, and every day, with those who are their aggressors. The measures found to solve a problem cannot aggravate other problems and, as we know, the epidemic can be extended, with possible new outbreaks, still requiring restrictive measures to move people. The Greens have already presented a bill in this plenary that determined the allocation of a temporary allowance to support victims of violence who were forced to leave their homes just because of this violence, but unfortunately it was rejected. However, we believe that, in times of pandemic, when the economic difficulties of many families become even more intense, as a result of the economic crisis that is being opened, even more conditions are created for situations of violence, and makes every sense that there is financial support for these victims who have even to leave their homes. Therefore, the proposal we are presenting today advocates that this financial support be provided, exceptionally and temporarily, while this pandemic situation lasts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u13	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you that, in the meantime, the computer problem I have just referred to has been solved, so the registration of presences is already possible, with the consequences arising there. For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill presented today shows us that the government recognises the problem of the link between criminal courts and civil courts, including family courts and minors, which often leads to contradictory decisions and which leads to children being delivered to the protection of the aggressor or to the establishment of visiting regimes endangering children and the adult victim. These processes share with each other a key detail: the origin of domestic violence. The Left Block presented, in the past legislature, an initiative that sought to solve this problem, inspired by the Spanish model. This initiative was rejected, only with the argument that it would harm the Constitution, but this constitutionality test was not even done. A mixed competence was preferred in criminal proceedings. We believe that the solution of the courts of mixed competence would solve many of the problems identified in the opinions on the proposed law of the Government, in particular those relating to the establishment of a hierarchy between courts and that gives a family court and minor the power to validate the decisions of the criminal court. We continue to say that the problems of articulation between criminal process and civil process constitute a factor of deprotection to victims of domestic violence and therefore we are open to working on solutions to solve them. We also note the recognition of the Government, expressed in the explanatory statement of the bill, that children are the 'forgotten victims' of domestic violence. Now, if they are the forgotten victims, the government recognises that the current legal provisions allow for such a forgetfulness. The Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office devotes almost half of the more than forty pages of its opinion to the bill, with an appeal for the express recognition of children as victims of the domestic violence crime. We also recall the appeal of the civil society organizations working on these issues, the UNICEF Institute of Child Support (UNICEF) or the recommendations of the GREVIO report on this issue. We insist: how many domestic violence processes involving children know in which they have been assigned the status of victim? The doctrine largely followed by the jurisprudence of the Portuguese courts is indeed to forget children as victims, which is, in fact, understood by the Criminal Code, which considers as an aggravating of domestic violence the fact that this is practised in the presence of children. This clearly conflicts with the child's understanding as an autonomous, differentiated victim, holder of personal rights and deserving of equal protection. Because we believe that there is consensus in society, and even in this Parliament on the devastating consequences that violence has in the well-being and development of children, we are again bringing to this House an initiative that proposes the creation of a new legal type of crime: the exposure of the child to domestic violence. And we do so with humility and full openness to new ideas and proposals so that there will no longer be 'forgotten victims' of domestic violence. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u15	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u16	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Domestic violence is in fact a crime that leaves marks, visible ones, other invisible ones. They are marks with which victims, direct and indirect also will have to deal with throughout their lives, and they are a particularly serious drama when these victims are children. The proposal which the Government brings here today has some problems that we believe to be sanitable in the field of specialty. One example of something we disagree about is the possibility that the court may, in the criminal case, initiate the protection of liability protection without giving legitimacy to the victim himself to do so. But overall, this bill has the merit of recognizing children as the forgotten victims of domestic violence, either when they are direct victims, or when they are exposed to violence against third parties. That is exactly why we are presenting today a proposal that truly recognizes these forgotten victims, empowering them as victims of this crime. by expressly dedicating the crime of exposure of less domestic violence, we recognize that their health, their well-being and their development are legal assets deserving of criminal protection. We must recognize that the mental health damage of children who are exposed to domestic violence is comparable to the damage caused by the practice of direct violence against them. We must recognize that children have the right to grow up feeling safe, especially in their own home. We must recognize that a parent or mother who attacks the partner is not a good father or a good mother to his children. We must recognize that it is our duty, as a community, to protect these children and to safeguard their harmonious and healthy growth. We must acknowledge this by recognizing children as autonomous victims of the crime, which is the minor exposure to domestic violence, and therefore we urge this House to vote in favour of our bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u17	I have the floor for an intervention by the Parliamentary Group of the PAN, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Domestic violence is one of the most serious forms of discrimination and violence, particularly against women, continuing to demonstrate the need for transversal public policies to put an end to this scourge. According to recent data from APAV ( Portuguese Victim Support Association ), in 2019 there were 65 cases of domestic violence per day, a number well above that recorded in the previous year. We therefore commend the Government for finally welcoming these concerns, which have long been pointed out by civil society, by non-governmental organizations and also by political forces, where the NAP is included. The first 72 hours after the complaint are, in fact, fundamental, because they correspond to a particularly critical period since it can boost situations of violence, and therefore we support the strengthening of the provisions to be applied to aggressors for the protection of the endangered victim, including children and young people. In addition, we value the strengthening of the victim's risk assessment system, since in this type of process the collection and production of evidence present added difficulties, precisely because, as a rule, the crime is committed within houses where there are no witnesses. The need for linkage between the courts is also to welcome, as we stress the importance of strengthening protection measures for children and young victims of domestic violence, with the allocation of victim status to children and the guarantee of communication between the family court and minors where the criminal procedure runs and the court where the civil procedure runs, in this case, going to meet the recommendations of the Group of Experts on Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence of the Council of Europe, having the NAP, including, already presented initiatives with this objective in this House. However, we believe that the Government should have gone further to protect victims of domestic violence, particularly children, so we have already tabled a proposal for an amendment to this bill, to contribute to its improvement in the stage of discussion in particular, which goes through the mandatory taking of declarations for future memory, which is currently optional, from the moment it is required by the victim. We remember that it is essential that the end of the testimony can be taken into account in the trial, safeguarding that there is no revitalization. For the NAP, the Institute of Reporting for Future Memory is an essential mechanism to prevent the repetition of the hearing of the victim and to protect him from the danger of revitalization, so, at his request, we see nothing that can hinder his inquiry or that this cannot be mandatory, until sometimes, as we well know, these processes are of delayed investigation and his testimony is essential to the proof of the facts. Children also face many obstacles in the judicial system, sometimes being subjected to repetitive interrogations, morbid processes and a very intimidating environment, so the step that needs to be taken and that we defend is to ensure that the hearing of children who are victims of domestic violence or of any other kind of abuse is made using the support of specialized technical teams, including psychologists, with knowledge in matters of child development, mental health, techniques facilitating hearing and empathic strategies and stress management, and these hearings must take place in adapted spaces, creating a secure environment for the child and, where conditions are met for that purpose, the taking of statements of the minor for future memory should be privileged.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u19	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u20	I conclude now, Mr President. We are taking a step today to protect the victims, and we believe that, as a specialist, together, we will be able to improve this proposal so that we can respond to something fundamental in our democracy — to safeguard the victims and leave no one behind.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u21	I have the floor for an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Constance Urbano de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Everyone in this House says that domestic violence is a social scourge, and it is, in fact, a social scourge and also a serious crime of violation of fundamental rights, on the limit is a violation of the right to life. It is also a fact that reaches women in a very disproportionate way, thus constituting an absolutely unacceptable form of gender discrimination. The fight against domestic violence is a design that must be of all people, of all society, of a society that wants to be decent. But it is a special duty for the State to protect the victims of this crime, giving them a prompt answer, and that is precisely the essential objective of this bill. We all recognize that the segmentation of competences by different courts often undermines the taking of urgent measures that are essential to give victims, especially women and children, rapid and effective protection and avoid their double victimisation. We also recognize that, in intervention in situations of domestic violence, the time factor is absolutely decisive, and often this protection is not compatible with the time required for a family and minor court — which is not the first to contact the situation — and that often leads to taking absolutely vital measures to protect the victims. This is precisely the approach that this bill allows, by giving the criminal judge—which is, I repeat, the first to contact a situation of domestic violence and which is already in possession of all the elements that allow him to decide strictly criminal measures—the possibility of taking, immediately, precautionary measures to protect victims, such as those related to the contact that the offender may have with the victim or not, or even the destination of the household. These measures continue and will continue to be the responsibility of the family and minor courts, which, under the law of precautionary measures, may already decide without hearing from the other side. So this is no novelty to this bill. Basically, this proposal aims to realize a concern of everyone with the protection of victims of domestic violence. More: the question of the lack of specialization of the criminal judge in deciding this type of victim protection measures does not, in my view, have any kind of basis because it is simply a matter of taking measures which are immediate, merely temporary, which can and should be reviewed by the competent court, which is the family court and minors.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u23	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u24	I conclude now, Mr President. I believe that this is an absolutely essential measure to combat domestic violence in a very effective way and, above all, to move on to the acts of effective protection of victims of domestic violence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u25	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u26	Mr President, we need a feminist view in the fight against domestic violence, a vision that has the possibility of disallowing the ideals of masculinity and femininity which, repeatedly, subalternize women, women's rights and children's rights, while at the same time feeding on hegemonic masculinities and ideas of violent masculinities. This is our target number one. This is essential for any legislative measure intended to combat domestic violence, but it is also necessary to strengthen that there must also be an intersectoral feminist perspective that does not forget the invisible domestic violence within minority communities, within immigrants, and we need to use the very high level of domestic violence and feminicide to assess whether or not we are a developed society.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u27	You now have the floor for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mónica Quintela.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government intends to amend Law No 112 / 2009, which is a fundamental and structural diploma in combating domestic violence. Domestic violence is a heinous crime, which deserves the liveliest repudiation, but the ends, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they cannot justify the means. The proposal is well-intentioned, we recognise it, but we cannot agree with it because it completely distorts the legal system, with serious damage to the victims. If it is clear that the fight against domestic violence cannot fade away, it is also clear that it has to be effective and truthful, all that this proposal does not allow. The proposal was to seek inspiration from the Spanish system and confused the concepts and ideas all. It forgets the organization of the courts and the procedural regimes of the different jurisdictions and, above all, makes a summary of the principles underlying these differences. The proposal sets the criminal investigation judge to decide on the allocation of the house of residence, on the regulation of parental responsibilities, on the care of animals, to intervene the food guarantee fund to minors as if it were a very wide-ranging antibiotic of domestic violence, such as amoxicillin, which cannot solve everything. It speaks in division of tasks between the courts, forgetting the specialization of each of them and the hierarchy to indicate the decisions made, all in a more than dubious constitutionality and with the risk of contradictory and unfounded decisions, which cannot be tolerated, however provisional the decisions are. I remember here that, in justice, the interim stands forever. The proposal is based on the principle of contradiction, which is unacceptable in a democratic rule of law. It does not take account of the system of resources or of the assumptions of the intervention of the food guarantee fund to minors. Nothing! He's doing a straight board. Pass a sponge in everything and land with stront in our legal order. The proposed amendments will have a strong impact on the daily activities of the courts, multiplying the difficulties and decisions encountered, with serious damage to the victims. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: To combat domestic violence, what is needed is to protect victims, what is needed is to provide the human resources, material and technical courts, which are so lacking and which the government has forgotten. It is necessary to make Law No 112 / 2009 operational, exploring its virtualities and putting it fully into effect, combining it with the general regime of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I recall here that the recommendations of GREVIO say that "more than change legislation, it is essential to strengthen the conditions for its effectiveness" because the multiplicity of legislation only creates confusion in the legal order. However, GREVIO acknowledges that Law No 112/2009 is an effective tool in combating domestic violence, without prejudice to minor refinements of detail that you may need. We can always improve.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u29	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u30	I'll be right there. Mr. President. We will always lead to a fight without hindrance to domestic violence, but we will not be able to pass a law that is an obstacle to the rights, guarantees and security of all actors. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u31	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u32	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It is clear that there is a consensus in this House, which I think is unanimous in relation to the problem of domestic violence, in relation to the need to combat and in relation to the need to act in a firm and determined way to combat a global scourge, which is a very serious scourge in our country. That's obvious and it's not at stake. The first thing I would recognise is that this proposal which we are discussing today has, in our view, a very serious intention. That's not what's at stake. The proposal seeks, essentially, to answer an urgent question of urgency, of urgent action in relation to a problem which, in fact, often lacks this urgency, as is lacking in other things. Finally, having followed a little of this problem in the field, in my district, I remember until I realize that, often, someone needs to get close to the victims and give them sufficient support in the first phase, or it may also be necessary for, for example, that when you hear at the judicial station, you have enough privacy to be able to expose your complaints, put your problem and finally that link between the investigation entities and then the court itself is done in an effective way and in an effective manner. However, this proposal raises certain concerns, some of which have already been mentioned here. One of them is this: the pretext of this urgency, a number of powers are established, in respect of what would normally be decided by a family court, for criminal courts. And that is the question we are asking is whether we will in any way be wasting our own experience and the very consistency that the family courts have in this same matter and if we cannot even, in some cases, be overpowering, and may even lead to potentially contradictory decisions. In other words, it must be ensured that what is provisional is indeed provisional and that the final decision meets the family courts. On the other hand, and I understand that in these cases there is no sense of any kind of conciliatory hearing — we are usually faced with a case of threat and a case of violence — we still cannot, in our view, completely disregard the idea of contradiction, until there has to be some support in what we are observing. That is to say, conciliation does not make sense, but it is necessary to ensure that the contradiction, the basic part of our legal order, is somehow assured. That's basically what we meant. The Minister of Internal Administration told us yesterday, here in the House, in committee, that there have been fewer complaints of domestic violence. The doubt that we will all have is whether there have actually been fewer complaints or whether there is less possibility of complaints even as a result of confinement. Eventually, as we are « removing this panel », many more cases and much more serious situations may occur. We do not directly confront this proposal, but we think it is necessary to consider, in the field of expertise, some of the aspects that we have raised here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u33	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u34	I'm done now, Mr. President. We are not closed to proposals. For example, the proposal of the CFP to ensure anonymity in any circumstance is a good proposal. And the other proposals that empower the issue of children can and should also, in our opinion, be considered in the field of specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u35	To conclude this debate, you have the floor on behalf of the Government, the Minister of State and the Presidency.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will seek to answer the various questions quickly, in particular by stressing the importance of Parliamentary work to improve this proposal and assuming the availability of the Government to also participate in this work in the terms mentioned here, the guarantee of anonymity, the special recognition of the issue of children. Secondly, I would like to say that the issues of social support, already mentioned here, have also been dealt with within the State budget, ensuring that legal support is assumed, when the victim is given the status of the victim, that economic insufficiency is assumed — to be faster — and also providing for a measure of support for family restructuring that must be developed. Thirdly, the question we are most concerned about here is to protect the victims. As regards decisions, they are provisional and are not eternal, because they fall at the end of the three months, unless they are reconfirmed or treated by the family court. We must recognise that we have been exposed to failures in this communication and that we must have a way of responding to them with due urgency. The judges, throughout their lives, participate in different specialties and I do not think that, in order to make the decision in question, they lack any capacity or competence. In any case, the response we drew here for domestic violence, as I mentioned at the outset, not only covers the social dimension and, for example, the response guides of the police, but also an extended training package for all stakeholders because this joint is fundamental, and we have to work on this training with all actors, including the CEJ ( Centre for Judicial Studies ). There has actually been a minor record of complaints in recent weeks, but we know that in other countries it has not been. And we know from our own experience that it is often at the end of the confinement that what happened during the confinement comes to the top. I therefore believe that it is urgent to take a decision on this matter. It is now Parliament's time to be able to improve the proposal which the Government is putting forward here, with the awareness that we really need to take the measures that we have been working on for another year and to discuss in a broad way with Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u37	Having concluded the joint discussion, in general, of the Proposal for a Law No 28 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) and the Bills Nos 352 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ), 358 / XIV / 1. a (PEV), 361 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) and 364 / XIV / 1. a ( IL), we generally consider Bill No. 194 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Amends the Statute of the Advocates'Order, revising the remuneration status of the official auditor, which integrates the respective Tax Council. To open the debate and present the bill, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject which calls us for this debate, not being a structural issue of the functioning of the democratic rule of law—and I say - with all respect for it — is indeed very relevant to the Advocates' Order, and it is essential that it be able to conclude key processes for the certification of its activities and for the fulfilment of its legal obligations in the field of accounting. In fact, it determines the law that the Tax Council of the Advocates' Order must include an official auditor (ROC) in the capacity of one of their votes, but the same Statute also determines the duty of the members of the Advocates' Order, free of charge, only with two exceptions: the position of the staff member, when he performs the functions in exclusive devotion, and the position of the Ombudsman. Consequently, the Order has been confronted with the difficulty of failing to have the legal certification of its accounts, but it cannot have its official auditor to provide, in a paid manner, as is mandatory in accordance with its own statute and quality as an official auditor, the functions in that way, which has already been the subject of a call for attention by the Court of Auditors with the suggestion to the Order promoting the amendment of its Statute. Since the Statute of the Advocates' Order adopted in the legislative act of Parliament's competence, it is of course essential that a bill or draft law, such as this one, be adopted in order to amend, reason that, in this context of relative urgency which the Order has in this regard, has determined its schedule. Having heard the two orders, the Advocates' Order has already noted that it follows the suggestions made, even recalling the suggestion received by the Court of Auditors, and on the side of the official auditors of the accounts have also given us contributions that are based on the nature of the function and on the necessary clarification of how the performance of accounts should take place, stressing the need to introduce some amendments for which we are obviously fully available, namely that certification is not made by the Fiscal Council but by the official auditor himself, on the one hand, and on the other, some terminology accuracy as to what is involved in the proceedings to practice in this context. Therefore, in the face of something that is of some simplicity and which does not mobilize much parliamentary time, we must, however, mobilize enough time to overcome a problem and allow the Order to resolve the waiting that it has in the certification of its accounts and to be able to cope with the normal activity of its operation on the basis of these criteria and in this law reviewed in these terms. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u39	I give the floor to Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill essentially fulfils a requirement of the Court of Auditors, which is precisely to allow legal certification of the accounts of the Advocates'Order, for which it introduces a new exception to the rule of non-remuneration of the exercise of functions in the organs of the Order. Nothing to oppose from this point of view. However, I would like to take this opportunity to stress the strangeness, ours and so many people, for the dissimilarity between what the Assembly of the Republic today is discussing here about lawyers and what the vast majority of lawyers are experiencing, day after day, as absolute emergencies for their lives. The accounts of this vast majority of lawyers are « zeros », or are even « negatives », because the obligation to discount more than €250 per month for the case of lawyers and applicants is maintained at the same time that, by virtue of the closure in the practice of most courts, they do not have a job, they do not have an income. Nor do they benefit from any exceptional support measures, similar to those provided for other independent workers. Of course, it is very important to allow the accounts of the Advocates' Order to be certified. But more importantly— much more important! — it is to allow the vast majority of lawyers to have accounts so that they can be certified. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u41	The floor is now for an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Artur Sovereign Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Statute of the Advocates' Order provides as a rule the free exercise of functions by their own bodies. And here it creates a problem with the Fiscal Council, as already mentioned, since it is part of the official auditor, who is responsible for certifying the accounts of the Order, but which, in accordance with the legislation applicable to it, necessarily has to be remunerated. However, this rule of the free exercise of the duties enshrined in the Statute of the Advocates' Order, with exceptions only to the Bastonary, in certain circumstances, and to the Provider of Clients, makes it impeding, hindering, impeding the certification of the accounts of the Advocates' Order. in this sense, what is proposed here is to solve this problem by adapting to article 15. that of the Statute of the Order of Advocates a number providing for the remuneration of the certification of accounts of the Order, thereby remedying all these impossibilitys. Thus, the official auditor shall be able to be remunerated and the accounts of the Order may be certified. of the same step, the problem of reparations by the Court of Auditors, as has already been mentioned, is resolved, which is not being dismissed either. As has already been mentioned, and I would point out, the two Orders in question have been heard and pronounced — the Order of Lawyers and the Order of Official Accountants. The Advocates' Order did not propose any amendments and limited itself to adhere to the proposal in full. On the other hand, the Order of Official Accountants has proposed some suggestions. However, they both welcomed this bill. Therefore, for the PSD, this proposal is fully justified, with no arguments against its approval. This is, in summary, what the PSD has to say about this. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u43	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill is so peaceful that we can say that we can not only do our words from previous speakers as we can certainly do our words from the following speakers. In fact, there is a legal anomaly, which is known and which is this: the Advocates' Order must have an official auditor, but then it cannot remunerate it, because the law enforcement bodies of the Order are not paid. Simply, an official auditor is not a lawyer, he is another professional. So there is an anomaly that needs to be rectified, that is the objective of this legislative initiative and, on our part, we have nothing to add to what is proposed, unless we will vote in favour of this bill. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u45	For the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: You are right, Mr António Filipe, I do not think that you would not disaccompani the next speaker either, who I am in this case, because the proposal is not much to say to him, which he does not deserve and may even be a virtue. In fact, I would say that, as explained here, the tradition in the Advocates' Order is that most of the charges are not paid. I believe that for many years it has been so, even for all positions, and that only from a certain point of view, with a particular concrete staff, is that the posts of the staff and the supplier of the client have become paid, because even then neither the staff was paid. But, indeed, the official auditor is not a lawyer and therefore those who work are entitled to pay. This solves the problem of the Order and also solves the problem of the Court of Auditors with regard to verification, so we have nothing to say unless we agree. The other possibility was to talk about other things — Mr. José Manuel Pureza has already done so — but I will resist doing so and, therefore, I will not remember here that the CDS has already made a proposal on this subject which has been plunged. I could remind you, but I am not going to do so and, therefore, not wanting to talk about other things, I would be left alone by the proposal that is under discussion, giving, of course, our agreement to your approval. [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u47	It is the time of the NAP, so you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Unlike Mr Telmo Correia, I will not resist doing so, because in fact, despite the consensus on the subject that we are debating, since there is an inconsistency, from the legislative point of view and from the Statute of the Advocates' Order, with regard to the remuneration of the ROC which has to be filled, going to the meeting of the report issued by the Court of Auditors, which has also been recommended in this regard, we must not forget that there is a debate which we cannot steal, which has to do with what has been said by Mr José Manuel Pureza, which is the one about the gap in relation to lawyers, on which, while the Assembly of the Republic, we must reflect. It does not make sense that we have sought to provide social responses to various sectors of our society and not give themselves to lawyers and applicants, who have their own social security fund. In the case of the applicants, this situation has been overcome; in the case of the lawyers, the Safety Board insists not to resolve it and also not to negotiate with the Government, and we therefore find it essential that this House does not steal from this debate. It is that if, on the one hand, it is consensual to the question of OCR, on the other hand, to have accounts to pay and to have accounts to be somehow organized and evaluated by the Advocates' Order itself, it seems to us, above all, relevant, and we cannot close our eyes on this issue. The alternative is not to study and not to revisit this matter, and we regret that the proposals that have been put forward have all been rejected and there has not even been a debate on this subject, but we cannot forget that the context in which the Safety Box has been created is very different from the one we have today. The Security Box is also regulated by the guardianship, by the respective ministry, and it does not make sense to leave a class, all of it, free of income at this time when the deadlines and legal proceedings are suspended and, following the lifting of the suspension and containment measures, we will have a judicial holiday. This is a situation that will be prolonged over time and, therefore, we cannot close our eyes to this reality. It is of the most fundamental justice that this debate is being held in the Assembly of the Republic, but that is not what brings us here today, which brings us here today is a rather peaceful situation, from the organizational point of view of the Order and the validation of its accounts, but ignoring everything else is, in fact, ignoring what is today a social problem of the class. Therefore, it makes no sense not to leave here a word of concern and reflection, hoping that this House will soon be available to discuss and hear the class. It is essential that we understand what they want to do, particularly in the Security Box, but it is a debate to which we will not be able to steal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u49	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are dealing with an issue which is, in fact, consensual — the accounts must be certified and the task must be paid — but it does not cease to be curious, however, that the Socialist Party invokes the Court of Auditors as its motive for inspiration and treatment of this rule when it was still a few months ago here that Members said that judges were liars, the same as those of the Court of Auditors,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u51	Who said that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u52	... or also tried to take jurisdiction over the Court of Auditors. That's what happened during the last month. To say now that it is the Court of Auditors that obliges this is at least some irony. But since we're talking about this, the government could use it to explain how it will resolve the issue of support for lawyers, as Mr. José Manuel Pureza said. In fact, what we have today is reserved support for those who contribute to social security, and we all know that lawyers do not contribute to social security but to the Safety Box, which, as we all know, does not have enough support for hundreds of thousands of people in need of State support. I also say that, if it is to give them the same thing that they gave to the partners-managers of small societies, it is not worth it. But it is a situation that deserves to be appreciated, because there are hundreds of thousands of people who pay their taxes every month, to whom the government has turned their backs, and who look at this House in the sense that they now deserve support. So if we're going to certify accounts, then we're going to make sure your accounts, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u53	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u54	I shall conclude, Mr President. It does not cease to be curious that every day we speak of justice, impartiality and the need to have strong justice and, when the time comes, let us forget those who most contribute to strong justice, who are also the lawyers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u55	To conclude the debate, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do not want to talk about other matters, since the subject being discussed is another one, I do not stop giving any notes, since there have been some interventions that have done so. In fact, speaking of other matters, Mr Ventura has been able to go very far, to statements on the Court of Auditors made by a Member who does not bind the Socialist Party — I must say that it is indeed regrettable that he is called a liar at the Court of Auditors, that is unequivocal whether he is a Member of this bench or another, and we must only regret that it is so — but indeed that is not the subject. The subject is another, the subject is very clear, it is an incongruence in the law, and an incongruence in the law that is corrected. This is different and important, which is not today's debate, which happens because it was scheduled and is urgent because the Order needs to certify the accounts, is the other debate, which is effectively relevant. And this other debate, in fact, will have the opportunity to resume tomorrow, giving, for example, a legal credential in substance, so that the orders, all of them, but in particular the Order of the Advocates and the Order of the Seekers, can determine the suspension of payment of certain contributions, validating something that many of them have already done. And, Mrs. Inês Real, both Orders have done the same and the Box of Providence is the same for both, so the problem exists in both cases, and it is a problem that is earlier. In other words, we must recognize that the crisis exacerbates a problem about the out-of-dateization of a social protection model in which neither the way of contributing, which does not take account of the contribution capacity, nor the benefits associated with these contributions are the same as the general social security regime, and we must make that reflection. But, at the present time, effectively, there is autonomy in the management of the Box, the measures that have been taken have taken into account this, in some cases, it has adopted them sufficiently, in others, unfortunately, it has not been able to guard all the circumstances, so we have maintained this concern. But, in fact, that is not today's debate. The issues that have been stressed are still relevant, but today's situation is relatively simple and urgent and also generated the consensus that we could observe.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u57	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the discussion of the Bill No 194 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ). We moved on to the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 336 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Guarantees extraordinary social support for business managers, 339 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Strengthen social protection for business managers, 346 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — Strengthens the social support of business managers, 354 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Ensures extraordinary support for the income of micro-enterprises and individual workers due to the reduction of economic activity by the epidemic of COVID-19, 357 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Emergency measures for micro and small enterprises, and 363 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens the protection of micro, small and medium-sized companies ( amends to Decree-Law No 10 -A / 2020 of 13 March and the second amendment to Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March ). You have the floor to open the debate, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason for being the project we are presenting is simple: the government had more than one occasion to solve the issue of partners but chose not to do so. He chose to leave these people without protection, chose not to safeguard their incomes and that is why the PSD, after insistently asking the Government to do so, decided to present this bill on April 14 to repair this flagrant injustice. It is a flagrant injustice that is treated because the partners-managers discount like the other workers for social security and it is also an injustice because the partners-managers, most of the time, work, day by day, side by side with their employees, often without distinction. But we need to know what we're talking about and the reality is that this is a universe of micro and small businesses, restaurants, local commerce, computer companies, neighborhood companies serving people in their communities. More than 90 % of the companies in the country are micro and small enterprises which, by decision of the Government, have one, two or three employees in charge of them, had to close, on behalf of public health, and their sales had rumbos which call into question their survival and preservation of jobs. These are the people, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want them to believe, that they persist, that they preserve employment, that they do not desist, that they continue to pay wages, that they fulfill their obligations in sum. It cannot, therefore, be these people who deny a right that is theirs, which was paid by them, exactly when they need it most. But unfortunately this is what the government is doing: it has, in the first instance, left all the managers outside, among the successive revisions of measures that it has done; after the PSD and other parties have said that this was wrong, it has decided to review the decision but it has only incorporated into the support of the managers without employees; today, so conveniently, in the face of the imminent decision of this House, it has already said that it will be anticipated and that it will do what it has not done, and it was not its intention to do, which, from my point of view, I repeat, from my point of view, since it has been publicly assumed, is making some institutional disconsideration by Parliament. [[PSD applause.]] This crisis will be very difficult for all, we have no illusion about it, but there is one thing that has to be done and that cannot fail: the state cannot be unjust or frustrate the legitimate expectations of people. And these management partners, these for whom we speak today and for whom we decide today, have credit. They have credit because they are desperate to pay the layoffs in which the state is late for their share and because the money from the funding lines is not enough for them. So what we have to say is that the least we can do is do our part. Let us all do our part by solving this situation, because it is an injustice that must and must be repaired and the government has taken too long to do so. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u59	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say, on behalf of the CDS, that this is a question on which, really, it is not understood why it has not been addressed or resolved by the government since the beginning, since this problem has been raised. It was very clear that, when the possibility of layoff for the workers of companies was determined, the possibility of managers, especially micro and small enterprises, should immediately be taken care of. And it's very easy to exemplify. Let us think, for example, of the manager of a small restaurant, who has two or three workers in charge; the workers are placed in layoffs and, in addition to these two or three workers, work the manager and his own wife; the manager, by his status as a partner, has not been covered and asks what he will do to his restaurant. Again recently, in Braga, for example, we heard the owners of the restaurants say: "Perhaps, we must deliver the keys; we have no conditions to open because we do not even receive any kind of support. » This was evident from the beginning! The CDS, and it was not the only one, the NAP, moreover, also did the same within and within the framework of the layoff, presented a proposal to solve this problem, which at the time was plunged, in particular with the votes of the Socialist Party and the Social Democratic Party, which then resumed this same proposal, and now, outside the layoff framework, we present it specifically for the members-managers. But we are talking about a month and so on and, as Mr Cristovão Norte has said here, the government, in making the announcement you made today, on the day when Parliament is discussing proposals from various parties, gave a signal of a kind of political skill and disregard by Parliament that is absolutely unqualified, when the government has had much more than one month to solve this problem. You don't even realize why so far you didn't want to solve the problem of small and micro-enterprise partners.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u61	Now, yes, it is the time of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Were you used to go to restaurants with only one worker? What about offices? They used to go to workshops where only one person works? And stores, architecture offices, maintenance services, where only one person works? And, in your dentist's office, does he only work one person? This last question is rhetorical, because the law itself requires that a dentist cannot exercise without an assistant. But it was answered yes to any of the other questions, then congratulations, because it is not easy to find a person in those conditions, because he knows one of the few people who could be covered by the regime — which, at the last hour, the government is trying to correct, with such malabarism — to support the proposed partners. This, of course, if this person not only does not have workers, but also does not charge more than €60 000 per year. by leaving out much of the business fabric, the government and the PS showed, in the original model of the decree, once again a shocking ignorance of the functioning of the economy and companies. It is, in fact, so shocking that until the PSD, about a month ago rejected bills on support for partners-managers, coming from virtually all banks, has now proposed practically the support which, a month ago, rejected. We welcome, of course, that they have joined us in defending the country's managers, although it is late. But the PSD proposal and others only applies to micro and small business partners. Why? Will the family of someone with this position, in a medium or large company, be less hungry or have less difficulty if the partner or the partner-manager are out of income? We do not have these complexes and we believe that support for management partners should be granted, with the limits laid down in the law, of course, regardless of the size of the company, provided that it is in the circumstances defined as a situation of business crisis and in a manner similar to that of workers on behalf of others in the same situation. People have the same rights to support, regardless of the name of the position they occupy or the size of the company in which they work. We, in the Liberal Initiative, will always put people in front of prejudices.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u63	It's time for DOS Greens. Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we have already noted, the simplified layoff has been channelling to the workers the difficulties of the moment, reducing their wages and passing to social security the significant part of the charges while enduring this situation. But in addition, this measure does not differ the type of companies, the size, the turnover, the profits obtained or even how they respect the rights of those who work. In fact, some of the companies that joined the Layoff, especially the large companies, have been quick to take action to, in the most various ways, make a table of workers' rights: they have pressured workers to enjoy their holidays during this period, have denounced employment contracts during the experimental period, have ceased contracts before and outside the deadline. We are talking about companies that, for years, have accumulated profits and more profits, some of them even integrated into multinationals and that transfer abroad the wealth created in Portugal, but in this context they claim enormous difficulties and losses. on the other hand, however, there are micro and small enterprises whose support is very limited in relation to the needs of most of these companies. It should be recalled that thousands of small businesses were forced to suspend their activity by imposing health measures or by drastically reducing orders and consequently falling or even lack of revenue, while the tax obligations and fixed charges were maintained with facilities, insurance, energy, telecommunications, water, among others. As we know, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises represent the generality of the business fabric of our country, many of which in the tertiary sector, which was, in fact, the most affected, from small trade, the taxi and other transport sectors, the arts and shows, restoration, tourism, the small services as hairdressers, among so many others who were in an extremely difficult situation every day. As at the time The Greens denounced, the measures laid down have left out thousands of workers for their business status, because they are both partners-managers and therefore without any wages or income. The Government subsequently extended extraordinary support to reduce the economic activity of self-employed persons. However, this support still suffers from two weaknesses or two injustices that are important to repair. On the one hand, because it excludes managers/workers from small businesses who have employees on their own and, on the other hand, because it only includes small enterprises which have had an invoice of less than €60 000 in the previous year, which drastically reduces the universe of small enterprises covered. In other words, small businesses with one or two workers may use temporary support; however, the manager, who is simultaneously employed and who paid their taxes and contributions in this quality, does not have access to the measure and does not have any income. This leads, in many cases, to the closure of the company. in this context, in addition to the injustice that this situation is powerful, it still represents a penalty for those who create jobs. The reform of this injustice is one of the objectives of the proposal presented by the Greens here and which aims to extend the support, in case of layoff, to workers who, at the same time, are managers and have employees in charge. On the other hand, the currently established ceiling of €60 000 per year leaves out, as I said recently, many small companies that will have no other way out but the closure. We therefore propose that the billing limit for access to support be set at EUR 250 000 per year.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u66	They contribute to ensuring the survival of thousands and thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises and that this proposal should be understood.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u67	Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The pandemic caused by COVID-19 has largely affected public health, in a health crisis of dimensions not before seen in our lifetime, but has also affected social and economic life a little around the world. Portugal is no exception and the forecasts point to an abrupt and severe fall in economic activity, with a cross-sectional impact on all sectors of activity. And despite this, we know that it will affect the most unprotected, be the most precarious, but also the micro and small enterprises, which have a lower response capacity and have also had a lower access to the aid that was created. In fact, these micro and small entrepreneurs are already being the most affected and even now we have started the defining phase. However, so far, the plan to respond to the economic crisis presented by the Government is shy, both in instruments, in size and in scope. over the past few weeks, there have been several parliamentary debates on how to respond to this crisis and, despite significant advances, the government has chosen not to accept proposals for amendments that could have helped micro and small businesses in the early years in the impact that the closure of almost all economic activity causes. On timing, it should be said that it is still very hypocritical that this debate has been marked by the same PSD that voted against — I repeat, it has voted against — exactly the same proposals with regard to the extension of protection measures to micro and small business partners. That means, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, for these thousands of people the solution could have been approved more than three weeks ago, but the PSD and all right-wing did not want to give that answer. Who's lost, ladies. Members, it was thousands of people who, on your account, are still not covered by protective measures. But it is because, from the beginning, we have been with these people and because, from the first hour, we have put forward proposals that we have come back here today, because we cannot, Parliament cannot, fail these situations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not give up giving an answer to all and to all, without leaving anyone behind. We have therefore presented a set of urgent measures dedicated to micro and small enterprises, which we believe are essential to take at this extraordinary time. Firstly, to defend employment by ensuring payment of wages; secondly, to extend access to credit lines and banking moratoriums by reducing the restrictions imposed by the bank; thirdly, to strengthen the system of support for fixed costs, supporting the lower price of electricity and also extending moratoriums to car insurance, for example; and finally to extend the access of micro-enterprises to extraordinary support to members of statutory bodies, managers, under the Layoff, who have contributing careers and are therefore workers. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are just and urgent measures that could have been approved in this Parliament, I repeat. We already realize that the size of the crisis will be greater or less depending on the initial response that we can give. And, in this case, we talk about many micro and small businesses that may not last during the period of greatest shortage, because gradual recovery does not allow to cope with immediate costs or, after that, with the debt they are accumulating during this period. This covers several sectors, from restoration to fairs and markets, to taxis and several other sectors. We therefore believe that it is essential that these measures be adopted today. Let us hope that today, unlike other times, will require justice and solidarity in response to the crisis, rather than games that always leave the same behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u69	It is now the turn of the PAN Parliamentary Group. Mrs Inês de Sousa Real, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we are precisely on the verge of committing three months of a public health crisis with tremendous social and economic effects for Portugal, we find, with some surprise, that the PSD finally decided to present, for the first time, in time of COVID-19, a legislative initiative that seeks — see! — propose solutions to respond to the crisis we live in.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u71	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u72	The NAP cannot fail to welcome this change in PSD position and the fact that they have realized that the commitments with the voters are met and respected here in Parliament, and not with requests to the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u73	It's always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u74	Such a position may even be very patriotic and deserve praise from the Spanish Podemos, but it despises Parliament as a sovereign body, which is in fact unacceptable to a party that claims to be an alternative to the government. Just as we cannot fail to note with regard to the Government that we have a curiously aligned legislative agenda with Parliament when we bring these matters, which is quite surprising to us. The problems of the management partners, which we are debating today, could indeed be solved since 8 April if the NAP proposal, along with proposals from other political forces that brought this solution, had not been plunged into action. — with the votes against PS and PSD. But by going to the subject that brings us here, we must not fail to mention that, alongside the other workers, at the moment micro, small and medium-sized companies are in a situation marked by great difficulties, with massive breakdowns of turnover, and many are not being able to cope with tax obligations or payment of wages in April and others already assume as sure that they will not be able to keep the business there in May. We are faced with problems that require responsibility, quick, effective and robust action, because it is the lives of people and the sustainability of our business fabric that is at stake here. The Government's solution has fallen short of what the situation requires. From the outset, the extraordinary support envisaged takes into account only an absolutely affordable value, does not ensure balanced support with the weight of the contributions made and, by reference to turnover, is ignoring that a partner-manager may have reported positive turnover and not profit, thus leaving out thousands of partners-managers who currently lack support and are experiencing gross losses. On the other hand, the economic support lines guaranteed by the State, and in some cases financed with negative interest by the ECB ( the European Central Bank ), have not only delayed reaching companies as they entail significant costs due to interest and commission collection, which are no more than contributing to the bank's profit at the expense of COVID-19, and which are in fact an obstacle to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. For the NAP, the solution is clear and we have already said so for more than a month: partners must have a dual support mechanism that guarantees them the possibility of choosing between an extraordinary support recognised to self-employed workers or access to the simplified layoff regime. Of course, it will also need to cease to have by reference the turnover or the number of people affected to the company so that support can be simplified and ensure that it reaches all those who are breaking the volume of business and losses. The proposal that we bring today to the debate seeks to make this contribution to the solution of the problem, and we are available for this compromise and for the construction of bridges to be made, also in the context of discussion on the speciality. at this time, it is not relevant to know the color of the party that proposes the solutions, yes, it is necessary to approve these same solutions. It remains to be seen whether the other political forces, in particular the PSD, are also engaged in this objective, or whether this whole debate does not go, as we have already heard, from mere « parliamentary folklore ».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u75	Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all understand that the economic crisis resulting from the health crisis will have a strong impact on employment and on the short-term product. In order to respond to this crisis, it is economically necessary to ensure the maintenance of jobs and the liquidity of companies. in terms of liquidity, I would like to stress the European Commission's authorisation for loans worth EUR 13 billion, as well as, for example, incentives for micro-enterprises and moratorium measures on loans and leases. With regard to the maintenance of employment and social responses, exceptional times require exceptional measures. Obviously, in the face of a storm, there is no way to prevent its strong consequences. However, I would like to stress the support measures, in particular the layoff. The Government's responses at business level and job maintenance are a set of significant measures to save the economy. Layoff allows extraordinary financial support for the payment of wages, exemption from payment of contributions and, something that is not mentioned, €635 for each job—for example, for a company with 50 workers, we are talking about more than €16 000. Training support is also guaranteed. In addition to these measures, there are measures to support workers with green receipts and managers without workers. These measures are, of course, always under constant scrutiny, in particular to ensure that no one stays out of injustice, as well as to manage scarce natural resources. This is our principle: we seek to respond and avoid the destruction of employment and the massive increase in unemployment, which is very different from some who are now very concerned about this situation but who in 2012 and 2013 had active policies to destroy jobs. in this way, we point out, because it has been said that the Government is only now presenting this measure, which, in the last fortnight's debate, the Prime Minister assumed that there was a need to extend support.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u77	A few hours before the debate in Parliament?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u78	According to the public today, these support will be extended to members of the management, expected, from up to 10 employees, i.e. from micro-enterprises — a fair mix. We defend that measures must, firstly, be for those who need the most, fairly and justly. We all know partners-managers of small industries, trade or commercial sectors such as restoration or small workshops with less than 10 workers, and these need urgent support. And two visions appear in these supports: those who believe to treat equally what is equal and differently what is different. This is a question of justice. But there are two different subjects and two different views here: on the one hand, those who treat this problem of partners as a problem similar to layoff and those who treat it as a problem similar to that of self-employed people. For the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, it is a matter of justice that legislation treats them as independent workers are treated. It is that who defines the salary of the partner-manager is the one and not the other, so independent workers have a much easier and much more logical regime for this type of worker. However, in the measures discussed here, we are always available to work together to solve these problems of management partners. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u79	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation that the country faces following the epidemic outbreak of COVID-19 disease has caused an unexpected and very significant economic downturn, with immediate negative reflexes and with great impact on almost all sectors of economic activity. There are layers and sectors of the population particularly affected by the consequences of the situation, that workers stand out, but also thousands of micro and small enterprises that live in situations of business crisis. The measures created by the social support Government in these situations have, in many situations, proved insufficient in the support granted and limited in its scope. in this debate, the concrete case of these limitations is the situation of micro and small business partners who, as it was appropriately denounced by the Portuguese Confederation of Micro, Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, are not covered by any of the social support measures created, although, in their majority, they live from the wage they take from the activity they develop in their own company. This situation is very close to the situation of thousands of self-employed people who face the inadequacy of the support they are given and the difficulty in accessing them. In the face of these difficult situations, the CFP proposed the application of the self-employed workers' regime to micro and small business managers, due to the similarity of the circumstances in which they develop their activity, while proposing the strengthening of social protection granted in these situations and facilitating the conditions of access. when listening to the PS intervention, as we just heard, it becomes even more incomprehensible how the PS and PSD voted against this same proposal. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u81	From the outset, we were moving away from this absurd restriction to business partners without any other worker besides themselves, or the issue of invoicing, taking into account, for example, the situation of thousands of tobacco workers and the amounts they are moving, nothing of which has to do with profits. This proposal from the CFP was rejected this week one month on 8 April, with the vote against, I repeat, the PS and the PSD and the abstention from the CDS. This support could already be in force and the management partners could already be receiving it, Mr President. Members, it was not the vote against and the inviolability which he made with regard to the proposal from the CFP. The PSD found out the problem and presented a proposal one week after plummeting the PCP proposals that allowed to address and respond to this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u82	We've talked about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u83	Seriously, ladies and gentlemen, seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u84	It is regrettable that at this stage these people continue to face this problem. We are not going to do to the PSD proposal what PSD did to the PCP proposal. We want to be, and we will continue to be, part of the solution and not part of the problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u85	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this same debate, it has already been said that the CDS was the first party to warn about the disprotection of micro and small business partners, and also, even two weeks ago, the Minister of Economics has confronted the Minister of Economy to know what the answer is that the Government has for the managers of these micro and small businesses. Just to have a notion of the size of this universe, when we talk about micro-enterprise partners, we're talking about anything like 190,000 entrepreneurs and the CDS is concerned about that small merchant, the owner of that small store that is completely unprotected. The government, in a skill manoeuvre, knowing that these same initiatives were scheduled, presents a solution today — a solution that should have arrived before. We have here a sort of accounting policy and the CDS criticises this erratic policy of the government itself. What we hope is that this accession process for the request for support is a simple process, or a somewhat bureaucratic process, until there has been more bureaucracy and effective support at least. Therefore, we hope that this process will be well-decorated, contrary to what has happened, for example, in terms of layoffs or in terms of access to credit in the COVID-19 lines. Bureaucracy is more than much, paperwork is more than much, and excess paperwork means wasted time, time lost to save businesses and time lost to save our economy. As I said in a previous debate, we can't save jobs if we don't save companies. For example and to finish,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u87	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u88	...to see how delays harm our companies, see the case of layoff: the government has failed the first deadline and we now know that the second has failed. How many deadlines will it take to fail to have political responsibilities, to assume responsibilities? I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u89	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Hugo Costa, after hearing I was sure: You have a broad road ahead and will certainly be one of the next ministers of internal administration or justice. It's just that I can be 3 minutes — 3 minutes! — to say that we are all moving forward, all of us agree, that everything will be done, that nothing has yet been done, that the best is still to come, is worthy of Eduardo Cabrite, who is not here with us today, and therefore we are not going to lengthen on it. The fact is that we are facing enormous disrespect for this Parliament: on the day that Parliament is discussing and when the government knows that a negative majority will force it to support its partners, the government says that tomorrow, in the Council of Ministers, it will support new measures up to 10 employees, without the planned billing limit, and even workers who have not discounted in the first year. It is called this disrespect by Parliament because, knowing that nothing can be done, or come now to say, it was on its own initiative that these support was generated. Nothing more wrong! The fact is that the government wanted to make time and while it was supporting others has forgotten others, in support which, now, will not give them. On the other hand, it is enough to see what the deadline for retroactivity of these support will be to realize that it is not true that the government did not want to spend money on these people over the past few months.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u91	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u92	I shall conclude, Mr President. More: the government says it will also extend these support to those who have not discounted. Nothing to point out, but don't forget those who have been paying taxes over the past few years, because they have to be the first to whom we now have to hand. The opposite is another shame in this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u93	You now have the floor to close the debate on this item on our agenda, Mr Cristovão Norte, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I believe that you are a member of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members have already had time to understand the orientation of PSD conduct. The PSD believes that the primacy of legislative action at such a difficult time as this, in which so many measures need to be mobilised, is primarily the responsibility of the Government. We respect this and insist with the Government, by official, public and other informal channels, that the Government be quick to legislate to bring about this gross injustice. The PSD decided not to submit a project by the Government. It did so on April 14, three weeks have passed since that day and we are still in the same situation. To date, the Government has deliberately chosen not to legislate. What we have come to do is to replace the government, the government that was obliged to legislate and that did not. So, what we expect is that the gentlemen. Members follow the PSD position, since they were here to welcome. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u95	We have thus reached the end of the third point of our agenda. We will move to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists of the discussion of draft resolution No 409 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Ensure that children whose parents have lost income are not excluded from day care, protecting affected families and professionals, from Bill No. 355 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Creates a system for supporting families in the frequency of child support equipment ( generally ) and resolution projects Nos 396 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — By the immediate creation and implementation of the National Plan of Solidarity and Digital Literacy, 421 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Defines exceptional measures relating to the payment of day care during the period of influence of COVID-19 and 423 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — Strengthens the protection of families with dependents enrolled in kindergartens and kindergartens and ensures the sustainability of these educational equipment. You have the floor to start this debate, Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The closure of the daycare centers was an important step to promote social isolation and contain the infection of the virus. The reopening is now beginning to be programmed and we believe that it should be done gradually and with strict health criteria. But it is important that this reopening of the day care centers should not make us forget the problems of access to the day care centers that have been created, deepened and/or unmasked by this pandemic. Of course, the fact that there is no universal and public network of day care centers integrated into the educational system causes there to be few vacancies, much less than those that would be necessary, and that the monthly services are so expensive, so often more than the monthlyity or the tip of a university, so often half a average salary in Portugal. Therefore, families are hostage to this lack of jobs in day care centres and when they have faced a breakdown of incomes such as the one that exists during the crisis we are going through, they remain "between the sword and the wall". They don't have to pay the monthly fee because they've lost income because of the COVID-19 crisis, but they can't afford to lose that vacancy at that day care center because they need to leave their children there when the economy resumes. So when the choice becomes between paying the daycare and putting food on the table, there were many families that did not have to pay the daycare and there were many daycare centers that threatened to exclude the children from whom they did not pay. These structural problems result from the fact that children have always been considered to have access to daycare as a market matter and the market abandons those who are most vulnerable, i.e. children from families who have lost income. These are the children we want to protect with this project, guaranteeing three things: that the families affected by the crisis have a reduction in the monthlyity proportional to the reduction of their income, that the daycare centers are supported by social security to compensate for this loss of monthlyity, so that they do not have to lay off any worker or reduce wages, and to ensure that those who have stopped paying the monthlyity because they had their income cut off do not lose the vacancy on the daycare. This project does not ignore some guarantees that have already been given by the association that represents the daycare centers and does not ignore that there are families who have reached agreement individually with the daycare center or the institutions where their children have their children. But what we propose is a safety net, to ensure that no child stays behind. And that is our responsibility and responsibility, of the Assembly of the Republic and of the Government, cannot be left to the goodwill of the private. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice President Editi Estrela.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u97	You have the floor, for an intervention and to present your project by the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u98	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: In recent weeks there have been many problems and hardships felt by working parents and mothers. We are talking about redundancies that reach thousands of workers, many without the possibility of any social protection; we are talking about the significant breakdown of family incomes, including wages, by the most varied situations, including layoff, which reaches more than one million workers in our country; and we are talking about gross abuse of labour rights, the pretext of the health crisis. This situation adds to the reality of families who, having children enrolled in social child support equipment and whose activities are suspended, are confronted with monthly payments at the time family expenses increase and income is reduced when they enter home. It is to ensure immediate responses to families in view of this situation that the PCP presents this bill, recalling that there are many families that do not have the conditions to pay the monthly fees of the institutions their children attend and also recalling that there is, of course, the will on the part of families that their children once again attend their respective valences in the future. And we need to create conditions for this. In the face of the many difficulties experienced by families, accentuated and aggravated in the current context, it is important to ensure that children can again attend institutions and that families are not penalized because they do not have the conditions to pay their monthly fees. Therefore, we propose the review of monthly incomes in order to reflect the change in family income, and this instrument must continue to be in force after the opening of the various valences to also address the new wage and income situation of families in the future; the change in the period that serves as the calculation of the same review, beginning to be made on the basis of the incomes of the last two months; the reduction of monthlyity by at least 20 % of the value in the context of suspension of educational and non-lethal activities, as well as the prohibition of cancellation of registration and collection of fees or fines for default of payment of monthlyity in the period of closure of the valences. We also propose the extension of the vacancies covered by the cooperation agreements, particularly within the framework of the daycare centres, creating equality criteria in the calculation of the monthlyities among children who attend child welfare and ensuring all possible reduction of the monthlyities. But there is another answer that also matters to ensure and for which the PCP has been beaten: the freeness of daycare for all children up to 3 years or until entry into preschool. It is important to comply with what has been approved in the State budget, on a proposal from the CFP. In fact, if this measure had already been implemented many of the situations faced by families at the moment would not even have a place. The rapid implementation of the free access to day care facilities would — and represents — reduce family costs at such a difficult time for many families, faced with dismissals, unemployment, loss of wages and other income. This, of course, is something we will insist on. We defend a free public daycare network for all children, but also public responses to other dimensions of the network of services and equipment, without prejudice to the complementary role of the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) in the different valences. And today's reality demonstrates the importance of this public network and the need to take decisive steps in this direction. But it is also important to respond immediately to the problems felt by these families. These are exactly the answers to the problems felt by families, parents and working mothers, which this PCP bill guarantees. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u99	You have the floor, Mr Ventura, for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u100	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: Mr. Prime Minister had said that each house would have a computer; the Minister of Education had said that in this work no one would be left behind. The truth is that we are already in the second month of the pandemic — walking to the third — and many families continue to go to the authorities and businesses asking for ways to get at least access to basic equipment, such as distance learning and others. Yes, the authorities and companies are currently replacing the State in these matters. And if, in fact, the arrival joins the proposals presented here, since it is unacceptable that a daycare which has not been in operation will now charge the same monthlyity as if it had been in operation, withdrawing up to vacancies to which it was already there, it is equally essential that children have access to all the information media that allow them to access these goods which cannot now be obtained in person and must be obtained at a distance. That is why, and why we do not know — and even the Prime Minister himself admits — if we can have a second outbreak here within a few months, it is essential to ensure that all means are at the disposal of each family. We therefore present here today a national plan of solidarity and digital literature so that in fact there is no lack of a computer in any house and that, all involved — authorities, companies and the government — we can take this effort of solidarity to a joint response so that our children do not stay behind in an educational effort that is everyone's.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u101	Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u102	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The daycare frequency is from the first experiences of the child in an organized system and outside his family circle. Its integration is important to develop skills and capabilities and it is recognized that these experiences can have a real impact on its development in the future. Appropriate care during early childhood brings benefits throughout life. In these days, families have less and less direct support from older family members, requiring society to respond to this issue, being the responsibility of the State to provide support and support to families, including a network of child support equipment and the regulation of working hours that allow healthy management of each situation. One of the first measures to be decreed to contain the spread of COVID-19 was the closure of the day care centers, causing numerous disorders to families. Unfortunately, public health problems will be accompanied by an economic crisis that has led to a considerable breakdown of income for many families, caused by layoff situations, and many others have seen their incomes disappear and many have fallen into the dramatic unemployment situation. However, families are being forced to pay for day care even if they have not made use of their services. As we know, the absence of a public network of day care—at present it covers only 30 % of the needs—makes the existing responses, above all, of the responsibility of the private and the institutions of social solidarity. Several complaints and requests for help from families who are afraid to lose their children's places in these areas have arrived to the Greens because of the lack of payment of monthly payments during the period of confinement and closure of day care centres and schools. Since the State does not have a support network developed to reach the largest number of children, solutions need to be found so that parents can resume their routines without their children being excluded from day care because they have been prevented from paying their monthly fees. There is an effective risk, if these conditions remain, of increasing the gap in social inequality. The costs of families with day care are often comparable to half of the average wage and there is an urgent need to overcome the inequalities that the situation has experienced with the pandemic has expanded. Families with lower incomes and a higher level of precariousness are the ones most affected by restrictive measures. in this sense, it is urgent to ensure that no child loses place in the daycare centre that attends for reasons related to the non-payment of their monthlyity due in the recommended or mandatory confinement period, in particular in cases of proven loss or loss of income of the family aggregate. It is also urgent to mobilise institutions that manage day care centres in order to promote exceptional agreements with families, to adjust the value of monthly services, taking into account their specific situation, so that they are not further damaged by the fact that they have lost income or their employment, and, in the future, it is necessary to draw up a plan for the creation of a public network of day care centres covering the whole country, with a view to ensuring free day care for all children up to 3 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u104	Mr Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u105	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As regards day care centres and kindergartens, support for families and institutions remains insufficient, as they do not reflect the impacts that COVID-19 had on the incomes of family and institutions aggregates. In the urgency of dealing with this snowball of current expenditure, thousands of families find that they cannot pay the monthlyities of these equipment, monthlyities which, in many cases, have been kept in total. Many of these equipments have been applying differentiated discounts in the months in which there were closures, and the difficulties of families are also the weight of the sustainability of their own institutions and the maintenance effort of their employees, who will also have families. Many families have tried at the day care center to achieve a reduction in the monthly allowance. When this is not achieved, they are forced to cancel the registrations, running the risk of losing the vacancies. On the other hand, in addition to employees' salaries, there is a set of costs that have not disappeared and have been reduced with the temporary closure of the facilities and which are accounted for in the year paid by the families. The NAP considers it urgent to establish support mechanisms, ensuring special protection to those families who have suffered higher income breaks, as well as to these equipment, as a way to ensure their sustainability by the end of this school year. We therefore defend that a cost-sharing system should be established between the State, families and educational equipment to cope with expenditure — taking into account the efforts already made during this period — but also ensuring that family aggregates who have broken their income more than 20 % are exempt from payment of their monthly payments. Protection mechanisms should also be established for daycare workers and kindergartens, conditioning these State support to the absence of lay-offs, and it should be ensured that those employees who have dependents up to 12 years of age have access, where possible, to the flexible timetable. We must not forget that the families who had the support, behind them, of older people in the family — often grandparents — to take and look for children, will now be without that support, because they actually form a high risk group of COVID-19 contraction. Thus, the State must implement methods of organization of work capable of responding to this need. In order to ensure the stability of families, it is our understanding that all children enrolled in their equipment must be guaranteed to be kept vacant, and children cannot be excluded due to the non-payment of monthly payments. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The integration of children in these equipment plays a key role in child development, allows for greater equality of opportunity and social inclusion, so we cannot leave out of this scenario the guarantee of support for these children, their families and institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u106	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State is successively de-responsibility of investment in day care facilities and day care facilities, giving us the idea that pre-school education is an optional education. Now, it is not optional for most families to stay or not stay at home taking care of children. So, while this is not optional, as long as the State does not get social support so that these thousands of families can choose to be, or not, at home, the State has an obligation to invest in child support equipment and also has the obligation to universalize access to these institutions. Obviously, I will vote in favour of these legislative initiatives, precisely because they have the objective of recovering some social justice, which this pandemic and confinement environment has revealed to us, the immense inequalities and, in particular, the relationship between entities and families.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u108	For an intervention, Mrs Marina Gonçalves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fight against the public health crisis we live has been guided by two major messages. They are, on the one hand, the exceptional response of all Portuguese, the need for our daily adaptation, including at the present stage, in which we begin a partial and progressive resumption of our life in society, and, on the other hand, the response given by the State, as a guarantor of business workers and social responses and as a guarantor of essential public services. As the Prime Minister said today — and it is always worth reaffirming — this crisis has been very pedagogical for those who had many doubts about the importance of our social state and our public systems. Today there is no doubt about the role of a robust State in giving an effective response to society. Today there is no doubt about the irreplaceable role of social security in this collective effort.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u111	This has also been the focus of the discussions we have made in this House, stressing the need for answers, evolving at every moment according to the needs that are emerging. It is clear that this response has also gone through support for families with children in foster care and support for workers in these social responses. At the time when the closure of the day-care centres was decreed, crucial commitments were safeguarded. For families, the possibility of accompanying children at home, through the allocation of financial support and the safeguarding of their professional life, was safeguarded through a model of justified failures. For the day-care centres, two answers were drawn: the natural maintenance of the communications relating to cooperation agreements with the IPSS, within the framework of social security, during the period of closure and the extension of the simplified layoff scheme to the day-care centres that see their low incomes, as expected. This said, a global and exceptional response was designed for an exceptional period, too. The ultimate objective was to safeguard the continuity of the response and, at the same time, the income of families and workers. With the proximity of the reopening of the day-care centres, a new concern arises: to continue to safeguard the sustainability of the response and, above all, to ensure that no family is harmed in access to this social response. Already today, in the context of the responses protocoled with social security, it is possible to review and reduce family participation whenever there is a reduction in the monthly income of the aggregate. This instrument can and should be used by families at this stage, depending on the breakdown of their incomes. The objective will always be to ensure the return to normality possible and this goes through the analysis of instruments capable of giving a balanced response between the two vectors. It is important to give a quick short-term response and the State in the protocols must find flexible models that safeguard this balance. The same can be said of the remaining answers. This immediate flexibility in the relationship between institutions and families may even go through late monthly payment plans, but it must also have the instruments already mentioned to support their own day care, in order to balance their liquidity with the need for responses to families. Cooperation and solidarity are central pillars to respond to this collective effort and therefore this joint work is due. I end by stressing, once again, the importance of maintaining this response, the importance that these instruments have for safeguarding it and the need of all together, we will contribute to the common good. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u112	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Madureira of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As part of the exceptional and temporary measures relating to the epidemic outbreak of COVID-19, presence activities in day care facilities, kindergartens and other educational establishments were suspended. Since the government has somehow sought to respond to the impact of the measures to contain the virus on the incomes of families, businesses, IPSS, the fact is that the successive announcements of support to one another and others have not yet had the desired practical correspondence: the Layoff processes have pushed into the state bureaucratic machine and the workers are desperate, without income and unable to cope with their essential expenses; the promised funding lines are slow to reach companies and social economy organisations. If the exceptional circumstances we live in may, to some extent, serve as a pretext to certain chronic inefficiencies of the state apparatus, others must be revealing in a certain way of governing. We have heard that the State is in short supply with respect to the payment of debts to the IPSS since January. It is an unacceptable situation, before the outbreak, which contradicts the idea of an economic miracle of Mário Centeno. If the government had fulfilled its commitments, these institutions would now have another setback and other weapons to meet the requirements of the present. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD agrees with many of the principles that guide the initiatives under consideration today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u114	But...!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u115	... either those who seek to protect the most vulnerable families and those who have been severely penalized with the loss of income because of this outbreak, or those who seek to safeguard the sustainability of this very important pillar, which is that of the social and solidarity sector. It is our understanding that the State cannot leave the families and the IPSS unprotected and delivered to its fate, but we also believe that the response to this crisis should not enter a wheel free of isolated, torn and well-intentioned measures, with a purely conjuncural sense. It is imperative that the Government begin to think and act in order to give structured and articulated responses also to the problems our country will face in several sectors, such as access to employment, the difficulties of businesses, food and housing shortages, the new reality and the new challenges in education and vocational training, among many others. We therefore propose and advocate that this bill and these draft resolutions be brought down to the committee without a vote, so that a solution is found that guarantees the protection of children and families, but also that it preserves the sustainability of the IPSS, integrated into a framework of measures and a broader horizon. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u116	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The subject we are discussing is, in the context of COVID-19 and all the reality that has been created according to the situation we live in, very important. What we are discussing is the compatibility between the needs of families who have children of age to attend day care and the sustainability of the day care network we have in the country. It is the fact that we have achieved, or not, that balance that can be measured by the success of these measures. First, it is necessary to respond to families who have lost income, in whole or in part. It is also necessary to respond to families who, with defination, have no solution yet to reconcile their professional life with the life of their aged children to attend day care, taking them home or taking care of them. On the other hand, there are also families, lives and institutions that need to be protected. What is wrong in our view is reflected in some of the projects that are present here: a war between families and institutions, putting families against institutions or institutions against families. Or it's because it's the institutions that charge and they shouldn't charge, so they abuse, or it's because it's the families that don't pay, because they can't pay, and they're also punished... that's not where the solution goes. The solution goes exactly the opposite way. Therefore, from our point of view, and because it is not possible for families to pay the money they do not have, nor for institutions to allow what they need to be paid in order, for example, to continue to pay their employees' salaries, the answer must of course pass through the social dimension of the State, social security, which must, on the one hand, support families who have lost resources in whole or in part, so that they can keep their children on the day-care grounds, and on the other hand, ensure that a reduction in the revenue of the institutions that hold these day-care centres does not determine that they, on the other hand, can no longer function or be able to pay their wages to their workers. Another important issue that we must safeguard has to do with not only daycare workers but also with schools. There are many employees — teachers, educators, assistants — who work in schools and day care centers who also have older children attending school, kindergartens or day care facilities and with whom they are at home at the moment. This is the greatest difficulty, of all, of articulation. At the moment, there must be the ability to realize that all these social situations, especially the most extreme ones, must have an answer. That is the obligation of all of us! These initiatives certainly contribute to this and the CDS, with its vote, will also make a contribution so that we can find the path that, at every moment, gives the best answer to each of these situations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u118	To close the debate, Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u119	Madam President, allow me to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u120	I wasn't registered, Mrs. Member, and that's why I didn't give you the floor. In any case, and because it still has 17 seconds, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to make two very brief remarks. The CFP presents the draft law because it clearly considers that the measures that the Government has put forward in this matter are insufficient and, until financial support for parents and mothers stay at home with their children, which means that it is a loss of wages for these workers, with which the CFP has never agreed, and has tabled amendments to ensure 100% remuneration, which have been rejected in this House. It is necessary to ensure responses to families immediately. It is necessary to review the monthly incomes so as to reflect the incomes that families have at present when there are breaks in family income, particularly in wages. Income should be calculated on the basis of the incomes of the last two months rather than the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) of the previous year, as is also stipulated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u122	I would ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputies, because your time has already been greatly exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u123	I'm really finishing up, Madam President. It is necessary to reduce the value of the packages. It is necessary to prohibit the cancellation of registrations and the possibility of penalties on families, as well as to extend vacancies in cooperation agreements. This is what the CFP proposes, these are the solutions that families need and, if parliamentary groups are concerned about families, they can vote in favour of this bill. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u124	Since the Bureau no longer records entries to close this debate, Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This measure we propose is clearly of emergency designed to deal with an emergency situation caused by COVID-19, a crisis that does not affect all alike, that does not affect all families equally, but that certainly affects us all to some extent. It is therefore a project designed to prevent children from being excluded from day care centres and from losing access to the vacancy because their parents have lost income because of the pandemic, without prejudice to the sustainability of the institutions that hold the day care centres at such a difficult economic time. It is not a measure taken to protect the profits of these institutions, when they are private, nor is it a measure designed to solve the structural problems of family access to day care. It is an emergency intervention measure, and therefore we welcome the Members who have demonstrated their agreement with regard to the need for an emergency response to ensure that these children have access to these vacancies. However, we must not fail to regret the fact that the Socialist Party again brings the reason for the Prime Minister's failure not to intervene in this area: to say that children's access to day care is a matter of the market, therefore, a matter of private relations in which the State should not interfere and therefore the State does not provide guidance on how families should be linked to day care, even at a time of crisis when the right of children to attend these day care centres is at stake. by claiming that this is a matter of market, what the government says is that it is a daycare center such as the payment of a gym: when families can pay, they pay; when they cannot pay, they do not pay. seeing the right to day care as a family right and as a deposit of children, what happens is that the State only supports families who have no money to pay for day care and continues to see the frequency of day care as an optional matter or as a luxury for those who can afford it. from our point of view, the frequency of daycare is a right of the child and is therefore a matter of public service. If there is anything that this pandemic has shown us, defending, betting and investing in public services is the only way to defend our rights. Leaving the rights of these children in the hands of the private — in this case, daycare or other institutions — means having no guarantee that what has happened now is the possibility of excluded children, because their families have experienced the tragedy of unemployment or the loss of income. I would like to leave the following final note: apart from this pandemic and beyond this emergency response, we have to have the ability to understand that there has to be a public service...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u126	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u127	I will finish, Madam President. As I was saying, there must be a public daycare service, not only to respond to the rights of families, but also to the right of children to have a development accompanied, from the pedagogical and educational point of view, by educators with pedagogical protection of the Ministry of Education, in public institutions of childhood education.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u128	We move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which consists in the general assessment of Bill No. 341 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Bans the distribution of dividends in banks, large companies and economic groups, 356 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Exceptional and temporary scheme for the prohibition of the distribution of dividends to the bank, the financial sector, large companies and economic groups and 362 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Prevents payment of shareholder and bonus remuneration by credit institutions and by companies that have received public support due to the epidemiological situation caused by the disease CVID-19 ( 2 ). the amendment of Decree-Law No 10 - G / 2020 of 26 March. To open the debate and present the PCP bill, Mr Duarte Alves of the PCP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have heard so many times in recent months that, in the face of this crisis of the COVID-19, we are all on the same boat—it is an expression that is often used—but we know that reality has not been so well. At the same time as workers see their income sharply reduced—particularly due to measures such as layoff— or are illegally dismissed, while small entrepreneurs make enormous efforts to enable their companies to survive, without the support coming, we have had several examples of how the large economic groups maintain their unaffected assets. EDP ( Energies of Portugal ), in the middle of the pandemic, decided to distribute EUR 694 million to its shareholders above the profits of the company, i.e. decapitalising it. Galp also, after distributing EUR 262 million, which was moved forward in September, did not agree to approve the distribution of more than EUR 318 million, already in April, at the same time as redeploying workers with precarious links, with the convivence of the Government, which represented its second largest shareholder of the Galp — the Portuguese State. Both Banco de Portugal and CMVM ( the Securities Market Commission) have issued recommendations for non-distribution of dividends for the financial years 2019 and 2020. And Banco de Portugal says: 'In order for the institutions to maintain the capacity to absorb potential losses in an environment of uncertainty' — the Banco de Portugal says so. However, we already know the results of this "independent" supervisory model in which "recommendations" are made which can be more or less respected by banks and companies, with the disastrous consequences we have in recent times. On the other hand, it will most likely be necessary to extend this measure by 2020, contrary to what has already been announced by some banks, which intend to distribute the dividends this year in 2021. The proposal presented by the CFP essentially aims to ensure that there is no distribution of dividends in banks, large businesses and economic groups. In the same way, we propose that bonuses, commissions and gratifications be prohibited in the current framework to managers and members of the social bodies of banks and other large companies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next few days will require investment. Public investment, first of all, to relaunch the economy and leverage private investment. But in order to have private investment as well, companies must not be decapitalised. This is what they realized even countries like Germany or France, far from our political options, which are creating mechanisms that prevent or limit the distribution of dividends and premiums to managers. The government has not yet had the courage to move forward with these measures. This proposal from the CFP, together with other proposals for strengthening support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, is part of the response that the country needs to give in order to face the adversities of the near future. While it is not ensured that strategic sectors of the economy are under public control, at the service of the country and not of profits, at least it must be ensured that these sectors — in the hands of the private sector today, by the action of various PS governments, the PSD and the CDS — do not decapitalise themselves, jeopardising the future of key sectors of the national economy, in a context of great uncertainty in the near future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u130	To present the ENP bill, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation we are living in is having several impacts, not only on health, but also in economic and social terms, causing a slowdown in the economy, with negative and serious consequences in multiple sectors of activity. In view of this framework, the Government has taken a number of measures which, in our view, are not only insufficient, as they still do, directly or indirectly, eventually favour large businesses and large economic groups, to the detriment of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. In other words, these small businesses, even though they play an absolutely decisive role in our economy, because they account for about 99% of the total number of businesses in our country, being still responsible for 80% of the total employment, end up being damaged, while large companies are once again benefiting. This is a situation full of injustice and immorality, and it is possible and even desirable to take some measures in order to correct it and to seek to bring some balance and morality to the system. Furthermore, the Government's option to place the bank and the financial system as intermediary of support to companies, also giving banks the power to decide, in a discretionary manner, which companies have access to and which companies do not have access to credit lines, even if these companies meet the legal criteria, does not represent only a way to increase bank profits, through public support that should be used to support productive activity, but also represents a set of difficulties for small businesses, such as the negotiation of interest rates, spreads and other charges. We are thus faced with further evidence that the bank, even in an exceptional and extreme situation like the one we are living today, is not fulfilling its function, which can and must take on from the point of view of the country's economy. In particular at this exceptional stage we live in, it is not, in our view, at least acceptable that the bank, the financial sector or the large economic groups continue, scandalously, to distribute dividends, at the same time as a considerable part of the families and businesses face numerous difficulties, to the point of view of their survival. In this regard, it is recalled that the Banco de Portugal, as has already been mentioned, issued a communiqué calling attention to the need of credit institutions to play their role in financing the real economy and explicitly recommending to these institutions the non-distribution of dividends. Now, in the understanding of the Greens Ecological Party, it will make every sense to raise these recommendations for a legally binding approach. In other words, with this proposal, it is intended to prohibit the distribution of dividends and other shareholder remunerations to all credit institutions and extend them also to large companies and large economic groups. In fact, this pandemic is having negative consequences in all sectors of the economy, and workers are feeling these impacts from the outset, as many small businesses are facing enormous difficulties in maintaining their commitments, so it is not fair that credit institutions and large companies are not called upon to contribute to the balance of the country's economy and can go by this effort and even profit from the crisis and the most affected are always the same, the most vulnerable. It is therefore in the perspective of the Greens Ecological Party, time to move forward exceptionally and temporarily with this measure, not allowing any kind of use with the crisis we are going through, because it is at least immoral and incomprehensible that, in these circumstances and after all we are living, there are extraordinary remunerations on the part of the managers of these credit institutions or firms. The Greens therefore propose, through this bill, to prohibit the distribution of dividends and other shareholder remunerations to all credit institutions, to all large companies and to large economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u132	To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The measures set up by the Government comply by half with what the NAP has defended in respect of the moratoriums on loans to businesses and loans to households, since in practice they are measures that make the bank work on the account of COVID-19, companies and families. This is because, in spite of the moratoriums giving an oxygen balloon immediately to businesses and families, the truth is that, at the end of the moratorium, there will be a double penalty for those who have travelled to it, because interest will be capitalizing on the loan. In other words, at the end of six months, banks will gain more than they would gain if there was no suspension of the loan. These operations could make the bank, as a whole, a profit of EUR 600 million, demonstrating an unbalanced profit from the bank and a total subservience of the government to its interests. But I recall that last month, despite the complaints of Rui Rio and António Costa, and the claims that they would want to stop the bank's immoral profits and ensure its social responsibility, we saw Parliament chumbar, with the votes against the PS, the PSD, the CDS and the Liberal Initiative and the abstention of the Arrival, the NAP's proposals precisely aimed at preventing the collection of interest rates within the economic support lines and preventing the double penalty of families and businesses that resort to moratoriums. Today, they have a third chance to show that they really want to stop the bank's immorality, prevent the distribution of dividends to shareholders and pay bad bonuses to administrators. With this NAP proposal, in the case of banks having profit, this profit should be used to ensure the viability and sustainability of the bank by strengthening the own funds base, i.e. the financial cushion of the banks. The NAP proposal is in line with the recommendations made by the ECB and Ecofin ( Economic and Financial Affairs Council ), which defend the non-distribution of dividends for the financial years 2019 and 2020, in order to ensure the sustainability of the bank and the ability to finance the liquidity needs of the economy. Iran, PS and PSD, as European parties that are, follow these recommendations and give them force of law? Or are they only Europeanists when it is to impose belt tights on taxpayers or to cut public spending? I also recall that the Banco de Portugal's recommendation only prohibits the distribution of dividends to less significant credit institutions. Thus, the largest banks operating in Portugal remain outside. Are they or not, the PS and PSD available to go further than the Banco de Portugal? But more: it is surreal that, with regard to companies accessing the simplified layoff, the government has — and very well! — prohibited the distribution of profits, but which then, as regards the bank, which has received EUR 25 billion in public support in recent years, does not regulate or limit the distribution of profits. Finally, as for the NAP, public money cannot be used to finance the assets of shareholders, managers and business managers, we propose that all companies that are currently receiving public support, for example through the economic support lines, cannot also distribute dividends to shareholders or pay bonuses to administrators and managers. Moreover, in the case of the Layoff, the government has banned — and well! — the distribution of profits, but forgot to prohibit the payment of bonuses to managers and administrators, which the NAP also proposes to correct with this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u134	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Karl Marx would have done, yesterday, 202 years, if he were alive. If he was alive... I mean, he's still alive in the spirit of the PCP, the Bloc and some young, and not so young, Turks of the PS. So alive is they continue to view History as an eternal class struggle. Only now, instead of social classes, the communists, in particular, are only interested in two classes: that of the communists and the state, on the one hand, and that of the common Portuguese, on the other. It is that the CFP wants to prohibit the distribution of dividends if they are paid to the common Portuguese, but if they are paid to the State, they are already allowed. Why? Is he no longer capitalist and exploitative? [[Protests by PCP Member Duarte Alves.]] It is so discriminatory and so harmful to the functioning of the economy that the government does not support it, although I imagine that this costs a lot to some PS neo-marxists! But there are other examples of this new communist class struggle: the common Portuguese must abide by the decisions of the courts, but the communists already find, and I quote, "unacceptable" when the Lisbon Court condemns the CFP to reinstate an illegally dismissed worker. And we all watch what happened in the 1st. May: Communists want strict rules for the common Portuguese and privileges for themselves and the state. We have called to this sad state of things in liberal view: « one country, two systems». In Marxist view, it may have been: «one country, two classes». We do not accept either of these two Marxist discriminations: all Portuguese are equal and all Portuguese have the same rights, starting with the right to the fruits of their efforts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u136	The Silveira Mouzinho is getting more and more modern!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u137	Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u138	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is recognised by everyone that the measures aimed at the economy are insufficient. What is more, those that exist are surrounded by bureaucracy and mechanisms in which no one understands, leaving companies strangled and families in despair waiting for help that is not enough. This is factual, it's not rhetorical! We believe that it acted as the Banco de Portugal should, when it recommended the non-distribution of dividends on the part of the bank, until they manage deposits of Portuguese and will be strongly pressured by the increase in bad credit throughout this year and next year. Moreover, it is fair that all the capital available in the financial system is allocated to the financing of the real economy. The banks accepted these recommendations and, as such, the concerns of the CFP in this bill are overcome by time and circumstances. Now, it is entirely unjustifiable the second part of the bill, when, in the same way, they propose the prohibition of the distribution of dividends in non-financial companies. It is good to remember that it was the dynamism of the private economy that decisively boosted the momentum for Portugal to emerge successfully and in a clean manner from the troika adjustment process. If a company is sustainable in the medium and long term, if the company has a capital cushion that enables it to cope with the most difficult times, if the company honours all its commitments with the workers and suppliers, if the company pays all its taxes and obligations for social security, if the company has not received State aid — I repeat, if it has not received State help — why does the water load come to the left, in a paternalistic attitude, create a kind of sanction to companies that are sustainable, as we would like all to be, in a country where the savings of Finland and the capital are scarce? It is unfortunate that we have no more companies and, unfortunately, we will not see any strategy on the part of the government to inspire the creation of new companies that add value, create better employment, more qualified, more productive, better paid and help the economy become more competitive and create wealth for all Portuguese people. If the distribution of dividends is carried out with social responsibility and criterion, why must the State interfere in the individual freedom of private management if there are no reasons for this? We are not surprised by this attitude on the part of the radical left; we are surprised that this ideological blindness is also installed in the Socialist Party and with some branches in the Government, and as a result to Portugal the removal of possible investors, withdrawing the investment capacity of companies. Only a bill with these characteristics is understood because of the pure ideological fury of the left in its obsession with punishing the capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u139	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u140	I will finish, Madam President. The left is trying to realize an old dream, which is the nationalization of all sectors of the economy and thus put the Portuguese taxpayers to pay for the upheavals of your ideological struggle. We do not allow them to do so on the pretext of the COVID crisis. They don't count on us! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u141	Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent weeks, many workers have lost their income, many others have lost their jobs, their jobs, many companies have been forced to close their doors permanently, many others struggle for survival and we know that in the coming weeks, we need to mobilize all the resources of the country to rebuild the economy, to protect jobs, to create investment. Still, in the middle and in the face of all this, there are those who insist on living above the possibilities of the country, there are those who insist on distributing millionaire dividends to their shareholders and there are also, here, those who close their eyes and who allow or encourage the greed of these shareholders. A few weeks ago, the Assembly of the Republic discussed a proposal by the Left Block that affects exactly this: to prohibit the distribution of dividends in banks and large companies. PS, PSD and the rest of the right have dropped this proposal. They thanked the shareholders of EDP, who paid more than 700 million euros with that vote, but suffered all consumers who needed to see the value reduced in their invoice and who did not have it at the end of the month. One day, EUR 700 million — 10 years of the social energy tariff! Mr Galp's shareholders were grateful for this vote. PS, PSD and the rest of the right because they paid more than 300 million euros, but suffered the tens of precarious workers who were fired by Galp. When it is thought that the bank account of half a dozen is more important than the life and employment of thousands in the country, it is a very bad service to the country. And that's not how you're going to get the country back, you can be sure! The Left Block will, of course, vote again for the ban on the distribution of dividends in banks and large companies. What is needed at this time is that this money is applied in investment and job creation. What is needed is that this money will stay here and not be distributed by shareholders who are often neither here nor investing in the country. What is needed is that this money is funding for micro and small businesses. This is where dividends should be applied. We well know that it is not possible to ask for honour to be ignorant — this would be a fruitless exercise, since greed does not have any kind of decoration — but it is required that Members of this nation be asked for responsibility. Responsibility to defend people and not shareholders; responsibility to defend employment and not the profits of shareholders; responsibility to defend the country and not the profits of shareholders. Block doesn't fail to do this!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u143	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u144	I shall conclude, Madam President. Will PS, PSD and the rest of the right ever fail the country again? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u145	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u146	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that someone who would come in this afternoon and listen to this discussion was convinced that the great solution to the crisis was that no company had any profit. For most of the honourable Members. Members, apparently, from what I have heard you say, if no company ever has a profit again, if all have damage and if no one ever distributes dividends, magically, all the problems of the Portuguese are solved! With all honesty, it is a curious vision that, I dare say, would not lead to higher wages for workers; it would lead, yes, all workers for unemployment and poor wages, which is, in fact, where they went, whenever you had the opportunity to put your theories into practice in the world, wherever you were. By now, I would like to recall some of the facts that are living in Portugal and for which these proposals contribute zero. We have, ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than 1 million and 200,000 workers in Layoff and these workers will receive, at best, 70% of their salary, or, on the other hand, they would receive, because, compared to 900 000 workers, all we know is that social security did not process company layoff requests. On the other hand, we have the Food Bank against Hunger saying it has received 55 000 requests from people with hunger. What does this Parliament do? Are you discussing a social emergency program? Don't! Do you discuss how social security can start processing requests so that companies and workers do not wait 45 days to know whether or not they are going to be paid? Don't! That doesn't! Are you discussing, for example, whether it would be more sensible for the State to create support that passes through the bank or, on the contrary, would it make more sense that there were objective support given directly by the State, with simple, quick and practical criteria? Don't! In fact, in this matter the "emergency check" that the CDS proposed here has even lead. What this House is doing is discussing projects that are, yes, a 'number' ; they are a 'number' to find guilty and, with skill, to divert the blame of the incompetence of the government and basically, to pretend that they solve the problems so they will not solve any problem. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for 'numbers' I think that is enough! With regard to the draft law of the NAP, which has a detail in which it equates the salaries and bonuses of administrators to the distribution of profits, which I think makes sense, I would like to ask you, since we are talking about the profits that the bank is going to have — and, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that one or two years from now we may be here discussing the bank's profits, because the very serious suspicion I have right now is that we are going to be discussing the damage, and I remind the honourable Members. Members who are still paying damages from the bank, if they also propose the same for mutual guarantee, yes, because some of the charges that companies pay are for mutual guarantee companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u147	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u148	I would also like to ask you what you think of the coordinator of the Portuguese Mutual Guarantee System as, above all, participating in the IAPMEI (Instituto de Supporto às Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Innovation) and, by now, whether you are going to ask the government any question or whether the banks will continue to be guilty, because they are doing their best, and for you all the government is doing well.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u149	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The measures taken by the Government have, above all, given priority to large groups and large companies, to the detriment of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. This is, of course, incomprehensible, especially at a time when much of the population — workers and workers of micro and small enterprises — faces numerous difficulties and enormous liquidity problems. It is incomprehensible and unacceptable that the bank and the financial sector, in this environment, continue to distribute dividends. The Banco de Portugal's recommendations for non-distribution of dividends in credit institutions deserve our full support and should also be extended to large companies. in this sense, these legislative initiatives deserve my favourable vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u151	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u152	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have the idea that a part of the left parliament does not read the projects that are in question here, because it is not from the bank that is concerned. Anyone reading the PCP and DOS Green bills would realize that we speak in banking, in economic groups, in companies, in the financial sector... that is, basically, we're going to ban the distribution of all the dividends. All of you! That's how they deal with things: more taxes, less dividends! [[Protests from BE MP Jorge Costa.]] This is the spirit that the left brings to our country! Whether or not they have received State aid, whether or not they have been fired, regardless of whether or not they have complied with their tax obligations, it is 'wine', Mr. Moses Ferreira says! You know what you're saying who's out there, sir? « Winning yours! Winning yours! Out there, they may be telling you the same thing. [[BE's protests.]] Outside, far from these cameras, you may be saying, for example: "Abdique of your salary! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u153	Have shame! Aldrabon!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u154	And the honourable Member shuts down, sits down, and says: «I will not talk about...» [[BE's protests.]] Of my two, three... I'd give up all of them. [[Continuation of BE protests.]] But out there, the Portuguese look at this and say, "You can't distribute dividends, you can't pay the financial sector, the economic groups. What left is this, which seems to bring us back to a world any that disappeared 60 or 70 years ago? Oh, my God! » It is the same as saying: rules for others, not rules for us! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u155	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u156	I will finish, Madam President. My friends, many of these companies support the economy of the country, support us, support the Portuguese people, who also live in it. You should understand that before you talk about these companies!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u157	He's got two salaries!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u158	Abdicas of yours? Oh, my God! If you give up yours, I'll give up mine now! You need to have the courage to do that!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u159	You son of a bitch!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u160	Mr Ventura, I thank you for keeping quiet because your intervention time has been long over. Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here discussing the life of companies and the PS Parliamentary Group would like to leave a word of great recognition to entrepreneurs, businesses and their workers, who have done everything to preserve the life and activity of their companies and also looking forward to a future with confidence. The country and the economy need a lot of this spirit and the effort of companies and their workers. I would like to begin by saying that, in this as in any other context, the Socialist Party appreciates the private initiative. But in this particular context we recognise that it is important to establish limitations and constraints, and that is already in force. With the measure of layoff, all companies that join the simplified layoff are already prevented from distributing dividends or other forms of remuneration to their shareholders or partners. More than 100 000 companies that have joined the simplified layoff are already prevented from doing so. If we look at the recommendations of the European Central Bank towards the largest banks operating in Portugal... Recently, the NAP said that there were banks outside the sphere of the Banco de Portugal and therefore outside the recommendations of the Banco de Portugal, which is true, but are within the scope of the recommendations of the European Central Bank. They are banks that are not supervised by the Banco de Portugal, given its size, but are supervised by the European Central Bank, which was clear when recommending non-distribution of dividends to all banks supervised by them. The Banco de Portugal has done the same and some banks operating in Portugal and Portuguese banks have already announced that they will not distribute dividends. The General Deposit Box, the Santander, the BCP, have already announced that they will not distribute dividends. In addition, the Insurance Supervisor and Pension Funds Authority itself also made the same recommendations and therefore insurers, which are large companies, large economic groups, will not distribute dividends either. What could be left out of this perimeter of companies and large companies in the financial sector? Which companies are left out? Certainly a set of companies in Portugal that have not joined the Layoff, which are not from the financial sector or the insurance sector, but are companies that will obviously have cautions, because this year we are living is a year in which economic activity will go down brutally, so never seen, and it is a year in which companies will have to make more reserves, more provisions, they will need funds to cover the damage in this world of uncertainties. [[PCP protests.]] Therefore, waiting for companies to become irresponsible, distributing dividends or profits as if nothing was happening, it is a short vision with which we do not deal. [[PCP protests.]] We therefore make it clear that we agree that companies that receive State support should not distribute dividends, and that is happening through simplified layoff. The financial sector should not distribute dividends and this is happening through the recommendations of the European Central Bank and the Banco de Portugal. Insurance companies are large companies and should not distribute dividends, and this is happening on the recommendation of the Insurance Supervisor and Pension Funds Authority. Therefore, we believe that generalizing the ban on the distribution of dividends can be an attack on private initiative with even greater losses, private initiative of which we very much need it to flourish with great confidence in the coming times. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u162	To close this debate, Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Thank you very much for the various interventions made. With regard to the issues raised with regard to measures for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the CFP's intervention speaks for itself: the set of proposals we have made on this subject, many of them have already been rejected by PS, PSD and CDS, would be very important measures to help micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Our project is clear: it distinguishes micro, small and medium-sized companies from large companies, which would be unable to distribute profits, if this project were approved. And, yes, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, we except the state of this issue about the distribution of dividends, because the common citizen, whom you have spoken about, is the one who uses the SNS, which uses the public school and therefore these dividends that go to the state will finance these public services, not for the shareholders, whom nobody knows, of the large economic groups. That is where there is the difference between the common citizen who defends the CFP and the citizens who are defended by the Liberal Initiative. [[PCP and PEV applause.]] With regard to the PSD position, it was already clear once again its inconsistency after Mr Rui Rio said that « the bank cannot want to make money with the crisis », « this must be clear », « the purpose of the bank must be zero profit », but where there is a legislative initiative providing for that prohibition, the position of the PSD is exactly the opposite. The PSD says it trusts both the Banco de Portugal and the CMVM's recommendations, but the problem we have had in recent years is this system of blind confidence in the so-called "independent" supervisory system. Governments trust supervisors, supervisors trust auditors, auditors trust administrators who, in turn, have the trust of shareholders. Everyone blindly trusts each other and what ends up is the situation we had in the past years: problems due to bad management, not only in the bank as in other sectors. Regarding what was also said by the PSD, that it is possible to distribute profits with responsibility, we ask: what is the responsibility of a company like the EDP, which distributes dividends above their profits? Or from Galp, which distributes dividends, despite being firing workers with precarious links? Or what is the responsibility of press groups, who say that State support is not enough, but are also prepared to distribute dividends? When we speak in responsibility this is what is happening in a large part of the big companies in this country. Therefore, this is, on the one hand, a question of justice, because it is not acceptable for workers and small entrepreneurs to pay the bill of confinement, while large economic groups are affected by their profits and incomes, but it is also a matter of prudence and preparation of the country for an uncertain future.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u164	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u165	I'm done now, Madam President. It is true that PS, PSD and CDS have delivered strategic sectors of the country to private groups, but these groups cannot now distribute dividends and call into question strategic sectors such as energy, which can be decapitalized, with serious consequences for the future of the country. That is why it is important to defend the end of the possibility of distribution of dividends, especially to large economic groups. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u166	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded point 5 of today's agenda. We will move on to point 6, with the discussion of the Draft Resolution No. 397 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Creation of the « emergency check » for micro and small enterprises whose activity has been suspended. To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mr. João Gonçalves Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS today brings up a draft resolution for the creation of an 'emergency check' for micro and small businesses whose activity remains suspended. At the moment we propose this initiative, it is exactly the moment when we know that micro and small businesses are facing enormous difficulties in accessing the COVID credit lines. Only 3% of these companies have been able to adhere to these lines of credit, which means that there is a huge problem for these companies. This ‘emergency check’ may reach up to EUR 15 000 in depth. This is a measure to support the economy and the treasury of companies. In fact, still this week the government came to propose something similar, something similar: a support, deeply lost, between €500 and €5,000. The cartoon is that, when we're going to see what kind of requirements companies need to have in order to adhere to these supports, we realize that the rules are many, it's all very complicated, all very little, I would say. The CDS understands the difficulty of governing in times of crisis. Unfortunately, the right has had to do still well recently and, therefore, we will not try, during this period, to withdraw political gains, doing what we did not like in the past. But one thing is certain: this government announces one thing and spends another. I give you the example of the layoff, which began as simplified and ended up as complicated. We had in this Parliament Minister Mário Centeno, who on 16 April said he planned to have one and a half million workers in layoffs and a expenditure of more than EUR 1000 million. The reality today is that there are less than half a million workers in Layoff and the government just had to spend anything like 200 million euros, that is, a fifth of what was planned. And we say something here is wrong and it's penalizing thousands and thousands of companies. We already knew there was a pre-COVID mark of this government, that it was the captivating. Is this government, in the full period of COVID, making captives in support of companies? If so, that's a very serious thing. It is good that we all have the notion that the money that is not spent today is money that will be spent tomorrow, due to insolvency, on unemployment. If what the government announced, and announced, was realized on their dates, many of the problems, many of the debates we have here, we would certainly not have them. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, times of crisis are also moments of clarification about the discussions we often have and are much more rhetorical than ideological and true. No party in Portugal defends the annulment of the State, much less the CDS ; no party in Portugal is against the existence of companies and workers, much less the CDS. It is important to remember that since the founding of democracy in Portugal, an economic model has been chosen: the model of the social market economy. This social market economy derives from a healthy coexistence between the entrepreneurship of the private sector and the social and regulatory concerns of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u168	Sir, you have to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u169	I will now finish, Madam President. These two dimensions are not contrasting, they support each other. So — to end and thank you for your tolerance, Madam President — in the COVID and post-COVID, the State must protect the dimension of entrepreneurship of the private sector and, at the same time, the social and regulatory dimension of the State. That's the only way we'll get out of the crisis. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u170	For an intervention, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This health crisis led to the compulsive closure by government decision of tens of thousands of micro and small enterprises. In order to safeguard the health of all, these companies took this decision at risk and put their livelihood and jobs at risk. Now that these companies will have the opportunity to resume their activity, even if very gradually, it is important to ensure that the sacrifice they have been forced to do does not result in the impossibility of taking advantage of this opportunity. Because the revenue and revenue that they have not had will not be recovered, because the fixed costs that have continued to bear will not be recovered, because the stocks and the management fund that have lost or deteriorated will have to be restored, because the capital that has been consumed no longer exists in order to be able to invest and because, without exception, the cash situation is a huge concern, for all this, and to compensate very partially for this effort that so many micro and small companies have made to help the country contain the epidemic, we will vote favourably for this draft resolution which provides for the allocation of a fund-based treasury support. I already know that there will be those who say that, at times of pressure, liberals forget their principles and defend State support. They're wrong. Perhaps they would prefer us to argue that the State could prohibit the exercise of economic activity — in this case, on grounds of public health and in the name of the common good, as is clear — without worrying at least to compensate for the sacrifice it has decreed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u172	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u173	I shall conclude, Madam President, by saying that once again, even in an emergency situation, we are consistent. We defend the interests of people and, in this case, we also defend the interests of the companies in which they work. The micro, small and medium-sized enterprises have helped combat the disease and now it is up to the state, which has not relieved taxes or simplified their lives, to help them start again. And the State, if it's not for that, Madam President, is it good for what?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u174	Mr Hugo de Carvalho, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u175	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the face of one of the greatest crises we are experiencing, everyone, including the followers of anti-politicism and populism, has recognized the role of the State in preserving social well-being. At the time of protecting lives, but also of protecting jobs, protecting income and the economy, the government turned to these citizens, to these families and to these companies, asking them to fight the coronavirus together. It may well be that support for the companies on which this initiative is to be carried out may have been social support for the maintenance of people's incomes; moreover, support for the companies to which the Government has requested that, in the face of a breakdown in its revenue, the wages of its workers should, however, be put forward so that later the government itself will fail in time to repay them. We have proposed that these payments be made directly to the people, but the government has decided to ask the entrepreneurs to go ahead with them. These are the same entrepreneurs who, being partners-managers, the government has treated according to any party cartel, asking people with small restaurants or small businesses to close doors, advance their workers' wages and go home without right to anything, just because they run a small business. That is why, having had the time and space given by the opposition, in particular, the Government has treated managers of companies that have helped the country and that are now, once again and without surprise, waiting at home. In order to recover the economy, we must all turn to companies, and we must recognize that many have continued to work. There is in our business fabric the will to recover, so it is worth it. But on this mission, the Government cannot have solutions for those who have the greatest power of claim and others for those who have the least, it cannot have measures for all, when they are absorbed only by a few. That is why I risk saying that companies now need the same thing they always need: that the government can help them breathe, so that they can reinvent a new standard that the economy will impose on us, rather than continue to suffocate them in debt, in bureaucracy and always — always! — more and more taxes. That is why we need agile measures, aimed at the capitalisation of companies, and we must share the following criterion: support must be given by the State to whom most needs and, therefore, must be given in a just manner, but for once, in a timely manner, so that those who want to work can be helped. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u176	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u177	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: In fact, at this point, we have come back a little to the debate we have already held on a previous point and that is indeed very relevant. Parliament has had the opportunity to debate with several ministers and with the Prime Minister what is most relevant at the moment, which is the response to the subsequent economic and social crisis, which goes hand in hand with a health response to the pandemic crisis ahead. This means that, as we have already said earlier, the sooner we take courageous measures to support those who need the most, from an economic and social point of view, the easier it will be to respond to the economic recovery within a few months. On this issue, that is, what is at stake with the proposal that the CDS brings to us here, I would like to remind you, as I reminded the PSD in my previous speech, that, a few weeks ago, we had the opportunity to approve in this Parliament a measure which had to do with, precisely, direct support for companies, with the number of workers in each company, in the case of micro and small enterprises, but which, unfortunately, was plunged.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u178	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u179	Like the previous debate, what needs to be clarified for these micro-enterprises and managers is why these measures were not adopted earlier. They were not approved earlier because the right refused to approve them. These measures have to be side by side with others who will be voting tomorrow and which have to do with fixed costs, which weigh a lot, especially in micro and small businesses, such as energy prices, car insurance and others. Alongside these direct support measures, it is also necessary to move forward with the defence of wages and with direct support for the payment of wages for these micro and small enterprises. So what I would like to ask the CDS Member is in the same direction as we previously asked: what will he say to the thousands of micro and small business partners who could already have these measures adopted weeks ago and do not have them because there was a refusal by a majority in this Parliament to approve these same measures?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u180	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u181	for our part, we have a proposal that will be in the vote tomorrow, which we hope will finally be approved for these people and these micro and small businesses to have the answer they should have had weeks ago. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u182	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: when reading the draft resolution that the CDS has devoted to this debate, it is clear that this initiative must be much more important for the CDS than for micro and small businesses. We are faced with a proposal that does not guarantee the necessary solutions for this economic fabric at a time when, more than ever, we need to decide in a timely, correct and effective manner on support for these sectors. The CFP presented concrete proposals in the Assembly of the Republic for support measures for micro and small enterprises and individual entrepreneurs to deal with this situation. There will be, we hope, an opportunity to discuss these new PCP legislative proposals: the creation of support for micro-enterprises' income, to be allocated on the basis of the 2019 income and proportionally to losses due to the closure of activity or loss of work, responding to the situation of thousands and thousands of individual micro-enterprises and entrepreneurs who are excluded from the existing support; the guarantee that no one can be limited in access to credit lines, layoff or any other aid or support for non-compliance or banking incidents; the creation of a network of contact and support for micro-enterprises and individual entrepreneurs, intended to ensure the clarification and guidance of access to support measures in the context of public responses to the COVID-19 epidemic, through telephone service lines, Internet sites and support offices intended for the present care; the possibility of suspending, during this exceptional situation, the supply of energy services and electronic communications arrangements in the context of the public response to the COVID-19 epidemic, the possibility of micro- These are objective, concrete and effective proposals at the legislative level, which the CFP presents as a solution for concrete problems that micro and small businesses are going through. For now, the best thing the CDS can submit is a proposal without concrete translation, without practical legal effect, which serves more for misleading advertising than to respond to the concrete problems of micro and small businesses. It will not be for us to miss the proposals for support for the Portuguese economy, but we must not fail to point out that it is necessary to give the country a very different response from that which we now have by the hand of the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u184	Mr Ricardo Leon of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u185	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Small and micro-enterprises are of crucial importance in our business fabric. We are from the countries of the European Union where their weight is higher, consisting mostly of small businesses and even job creation situations, representing almost all sectors of our economy. At the beginning of this pandemic, much of this small trade had to be closed. No country, no government, no company was prepared for this reality from the point of view of its impact, either on public health or on its economies. However, today we are facing this crisis under very different conditions from previous times. Portugal had its first budget surplus in 2019, a robust growth based on several sectors, which translated the bet that the country made in recent years in its main asset, which are people and workers, very forgotten, in fact, in the recent intervention of the PSD. It has therefore been determining the Government's response capacity in the current state treasury effort by creating and implementing a set of measures, within such a short period of time, in favor of the company's treasury to continue to ensure the income of the country's families and productive capacity and thus to feel the least possible impact as a result of this crisis. Among other measures, I stress the fact that companies have access to extraordinary support for the maintenance of employment contracts ( simplified layoff scheme ), which provides for extraordinary financial support granted to the company, by worker, solely for the payment of remuneration. Companies benefiting from this support will still have the right to receive an extraordinary financial incentive to support the resumption of the company's activity, paid only once and with the amount of €635 per worker, thus dealing with support granted to the company itself thoroughly lost. I also highlight measures such as the access of companies to credit lines created by the Government with a view to better financing their basic management and treasury needs, such as the payment of wages, or as recently presented by the Government, within the current phased opening framework of our economy, in order to support micro-enterprises, in particular in their efforts to adapt and invest in their establishments in the context of the new conditions in the context of the COVID-19 pandemic, a measure which, moreover, translates into an 80 % support of the eligible expenditure, with a limit of €5,000. Thus, the CDS initiative differs only from others under discussion in that it provides for a maximum fixed amount per undertaking, not densifying the applicable conditions and may even be less advantageous for the company and its employees, depending on the number of employees per undertaking.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u186	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u187	I'm done now, Madam President. Finally, the PS Parliamentary Group is fully convinced that the Government will continue to do its part, to monitor the evolution of ongoing economic activity and to work on strengthening support for our businesses, in particular micro and small enterprises. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u188	For an intervention, Mrs Cristina Rodrigues of the PAN Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament : The spread of the new coronavirus, in addition to representing a public health crisis, will have enormous social and economic impacts in our country, which we will have to be able to face. The micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in Portugal account for around 99 % of the business fabric, which means that support measures for these companies must be our priority in support of the economy. Moreover, these are also the most difficult ones, suffering abrupt drop in turnover and failing to cope with tax and wage obligations in March and April. Many companies even fear that, without support for the need for cash, they will not be able to reach the end of May. Contrary to other crises in the past, where revenue was driven by consumer incentives, this economic crisis caused by the new coronavirus can only be solved by capital injections into the economy. Only in this way can we directly guarantee the liquidity of the productive fabric and ensure respect for labour rights, while it is important to implement social support measures that fill the income losses of families. Direct capital injection in companies was recommended even by the European institutions, but requires budgetary compensation. These compensations may go through debt-sharing mechanisms, but also through budgetary options capable of facing certain established interests, including the recovery of EUR million in annual taxes lost to tax havens or the end of public support to the bank. The proposal that the CDS brings to us today presents a kind of unconditional basic income for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, since what is at stake is a subsidy that does not even require a breakdown of turnover and which is allocated to all companies that have not suffered injury in the last two years. In view of this generous proposal, we cannot fail to regret that the CDS rejected proposals submitted by the NAP last month, which provided immediate support for companies and would not cost the country a hundred. This is the case with the NAP proposal that prevented interest and commission collection within the economic support lines or another one that prevented double penaltyisation of companies requesting moratoriums on their claims. It seems that the major concern of the CDS is to mark the media agenda and not in fact to ensure liquidity to companies, preferring that the bank works on account of the difficulties that COVID-19 has generated. In short, the proposal gives rise to doubts as to the criteria for awarding such a check, in addition to the fact that the form of financing of such a check is unknown. What should be clear from this discussion is that it is absolutely necessary for the Government to take steps to ensure that money from the lines of support for the economy and the simplified layoff system reaches companies as soon as possible and that loans from the lines of support for the economy are not subject to interest and commission imposed by the bank and, on the other hand, there is an effort to ensure that all existing support mechanisms are unburocated and simplified.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u190	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the proposal that the CDS brings to us today can be improved, but it has an advantage, to speak in liquidity, something that we must quickly bring to our companies. Only to be understood: the United States has injected 10 % of its GDP (gross domestic product) into the real economy; in the European Union we are talking about a value between 0, 2 % and 0, 8 %. The difference is abissal for those who so often look out with wrong criteria. We need to bring liquidity to companies quickly, and this is done through layoff and also credit and state guarantees. Above all, money needs to arrive, but the truth is it's failed the first term, it's failed the second and we don't know when that's going to happen. Mr Ricardo Leon finished his speech by saying: 'The PS Parliamentary Group is particularly convinced...' We do not have enough, Mr! It is not enough for the PS Parliamentary Group to be convinced, it is necessary for money to reach businesses. And the truth is that it has not arrived—or, then, companies are fooling us and misleading Parliament. There must not be a parliamentary group in this Chamber who does not receive, every day, complaints of support that does not arrive, of support that takes and an endless bureaucracy, which seems to increase rather than diminish. This proposal has an advantage: it is simplified. It can be improved, but it is simplified.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u192	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u193	I shall conclude, Madam President. We have been announced a simplified layoff, but we have one of the most complex in history. They announced quick and direct support, but they are slow to arrive. I think it's time to stop and think about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u194	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, completed the assessment of draft resolution No 397 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ), we will move on to the joint discussion, in general, of Bill Nos 338 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 14 - G / 2020 of 13 April enabling examination of improvement of internal grade in secondary education and 360 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The first amendment is made to Decree-Law No 14 - G / 2020 of 13 April, which establishes exceptional and temporary measures in the area of education in the context of the COVID 19 disease pandemic, together with Resolution Projects No 381 / XIV / 1. a ( CH) — The guarantee of access by all teachers in the country to information technology enabling them to learn at a distance, 404 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government allow national examinations to improve the final classification and 406 / XIV / 1. a (IL) — by replacing the normal functioning of national final examinations. Since Mrs Bebiana Cunha, from the NAP, is not in the Chamber, she has the floor to present the PCP bill, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u195	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : There is an urgent need to resolve several issues arising from the adoption of procedures for the prevention and containment of epidemic outbreaks in schools. If the lack of workers was already a serious problem, in view of the new scenario, it is necessary to hire more workers and open the competitions necessary for the integration of all those who have a permanent need in schools. In addition, all the necessary and appropriate educational resources are needed for anyone—no one! — be excluded. And it must be the Ministry of Education, in conjunction with schools, to ensure free access and distribution, to all students and teachers, of the necessary technological and computer equipment, including free access to the Internet. As for the completion of secondary education and access to higher education, there have been many concerns expressed by students and their families regarding the continuation of studies. The CFP has long argued that national examinations, in the current model of access to higher education, are a barrier that does not solve inequalities and that even contributes to their deepening, which becomes more evident with the extraordinary situation we live in. The solution found by the government leads to difficulties that cannot be ignored, until access gaps are still limited. And we have some doubts that it is because of the return to what was previously planned for the problems to be solved. Thus, we propose that students be able to perform national final exams only in the disciplines chosen for access to higher education, and that these exams be also allowed to improve their score, highlighting their result for the classification of entry proof and for the improvement of the final internal classification of secondary education, in the case of self-proposed students. It seems to us that students should not be prevented from improving their grades for the purposes of access to higher education, especially if this can be decisive so that there is no abandonment of a school course that could continue. And, for example, there is the case of that student who took the test last year and did not even lower the note, but who still did not enter higher education. Therefore, he needs to improve the note of discipline, raising it by a few tenths, so that he can enter higher education. If you get prevented from doing, if you stay out again, the biggest probability is that you don't try a third time. Finally, because it is necessary to prepare the next school year, listening to a wide range of educational entities and members of the community and never exceeding the necessary and mandatory trade union negotiation, the CFP proposes the establishment of a working group to plan the organisation of the school year of 2020 / 2021, including at the level of the recruitment needs of teaching and non-teaching staff, the change and adequacy of programmatic and curriculum contents and the strengthening of pedagogical and educational resources. These and other proposals of this bill are intended to be solutions to identified problems, which need to be resolved very quickly, with effective measures, being the PCP available to find ways for these solutions to be implemented. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u196	To present the draft law of the NAP, you have the word now yes, Mrs Bebiana Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the context of COVID-19, the Government has implemented a set of measures in the field of education aimed at establishing an exceptional and temporary regime in order to ensure the continuity of the 2019 / 2020 school year, seeking to do so in a fair, equitable and as normal as possible. For the NAP, it was always very clear that this school year did not have to be lost due to the context we experienced and therefore, after the government's explanations, we understand that it is possible to try to restart the present educational activities in the 11. o and 12. the years of schooling and the 2. o is 3. the years of double-certification secondary school courses. It was also a proposal from the NAP to withdraw from the Government's equation the present classes in 10. the year of schooling and 1. the year of the double course certification of secondary education, thus allowing a significant reduction in the number of students present and consequently a lower risk to their health, to the health of educational communities and to public health. at another time, then, we will do the analysis of the rules that the government has provided to schools to resume these activities. Today, with this proposal, we will talk about what seems to us to consolidate an injustice for students, but which can still be resolved. We know that exceptional measures have to be taken. The NAP also sees with good eye the reduction in the number of examinations, in a general perspective, and the separation of the completion of secondary education from access to higher education. We also understand that this may allow, at another time, to begin to debate the model of access to higher education in Portugal, but that is not what we want with this proposal either. What we want is that the exceptional does not confuse itself with the unfair and discriminatory. So today, we have a proposal to allow all students who wanted and needed to make some improvement to your note to also propose the examination for this purpose. We do not understand that it is determined this year that students who conduct national final examinations in the disciplines that choose as proof of entry into higher education are prevented from using the exam note to improve the final classification in these disciplines and, consequently, prevented from improving the grade of secondary education. We do not understand that a student who needs to take an exam to improve his grade of secondary school cannot do so. Under this rule, imposed by the Government, not only do the starting assumptions of all these students and their families change, which is, firstly, incorrect, as it is also not possible to understand their relevance at a time when the number of students who will be present in the classes of the third period is guaranteed to be much higher than the number of students who may come to seek to take an improvement note and in which it has not been prevented their frequency. According to a survey available, it is estimated that 19 000 students wanted to take proof of entry and improvement of internal rating. The 38 000 examinations which are normally carried out for improvement will be reduced by only around 5000 — that is, in accordance with the Government's proposal — since the others will have to continue to be carried out for examination purposes, and we therefore do not think that there are no reasonable solutions. This limitation is not seen in a scenario with the implementation of other demarcation measures already defined and its persistence will seriously limit the opportunities of students to access important choices of their school project, their personal project, their professional project. Although we understand the need to protect the health of students at this exceptional stage, we believe that this protection can be maintained by solutions that allow students to take the tests safely, at the same time that neither expectations nor dreams are frustrated.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u198	To present your draft resolution, you have the floor of Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u199	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is an issue that should have merited our attention from the outset. With distance learning, the government has determined that the means should be made available when they do not exist. It is estimated that Portugal is far below the European Union average in terms of the provision of equipment, both for teachers and for students. And this is something we should be concerned about. We've talked about the students. Obviously, if they do not have access to these equipment, there is a much greater gap between those who can and those who cannot. But teachers must also deserve our concern, because many of them did not have the means required, in particular by regulation, to be able to transmit content safely, in the solid way required, to the point of view of transmission of communications. It is therefore essential that everyone, without exception, of all the sectors of education, have access to these information technology. The arrival agrees with the NAP on this matter: the rules cannot be changed in the middle of the game. This reversal of the logic of examinations will not only undermine many expectations as to prevent many from continuing their course, and this should not be done, at least in the logic of defination that the Government has already announced. It is therefore essential, in our view, that we allow, in particular, the use of the authorities, their equipment, their pavilions, the carrying out of all the examinations, including those of improvement of note. This was fundamental, not only because education is of particular importance here, but also in order to achieve normalization of relations. If we want to return to a minimally normal scenario, if we want to return to a new normal scenario in education, the exams would be the best time to make that difference. Unfortunately, neither the means nor the regulations came in time to guarantee this new normality, and it is therefore essential that this House can still do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u200	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Decree-Law No. 14 - G / 2020, which establishes exceptional measures for education, the Government has taken two decisions that amend both the rules for completion of secondary education and the rules for access to higher education. On the one hand, national exams, this year, are only proof of entry, so completion of secondary education depends only on internal evaluation; on the other hand, no examinations of improvement of grade to disciplines which are not proof of entry. The CDS believes that, as much as special circumstances exist and as much as it is on the table, until a long time ago, the need to rethink the access model is not now, in a typical year, that the government should induce even greater uncertainty, changing the rules not in half, but almost at the end of the game. So let's disagree with these decisions. And we disagree why? As for the completion of secondary education only to depend on internal notes, we know — we all know! — that this increases the variability of grades between schools. We know and know Mr. Secretary of State João Costa, who said, in July last year, that, in general, yes, it is a major problem in private schools, but this phenomenon is also detected in public schools, both in inflation of notes, which is a fraud, from the point of view of student training, and deflation, because students work, they strive and the notes do not correspond to what they actually did. We agree with Mr. Secretary of State, apparently he does not agree with himself. With regard to the impossibility of making improvements, the Government has relied on logistical reasons, i.e. to mitigate the risk of contamination, the number of examinations should be reduced. Yesterday, in committee, the Minister of Education justified this decision with a principle of predictability, i.e., a decision was announced on 9 April for predictability in the system. Well, it was not a predictability principle that prevented the government from changing the law of layoff four times, and yet, because it was wrong and therefore it was a good decision. The truth is that reality will also change from April 9 to the time when students will take the exam in July. For example, we will have the day care centers and the ATLs open, we will have the citizen's shops open, we will have the restaurants open, we will have cinemas, theaters and shopping centres open and, therefore, logistics could also be a suitable subject, but it will not be, for a circumscribed group of students, by government decision. Having said very clearly, students who want to improve their high school grades, their average secondary grades, who are now dependent only on the evaluation of the school, who have tried hard and who have even been investing in it over these years, cannot do so. However, yesterday, Mr. Secretary of State João Costa explained to a greater extent why this decision was made and said that the logistical reason also has to do with the purpose of saving teachers from having to correct so many tests to be able to have more vacations. By not disposing of the right to holidays, I do not think it is reasonable to overthrow the order of things and penalize the course and expectations of students for that reason too. The CDS therefore calls on the Government to correct this injustice, because until May 11 it can still do so without harm, and maintain the initial predictability, which should never have been changed.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u202	To present the draft resolution of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u203	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The national examination regime proposed by the Government prevents students from conducting the final national examination to improve internal classification. The legislative initiative we are bringing here today is aimed at correcting this huge injustice. The planned scheme changes the rules in the middle of the game and completely disregards the effort and planning of students, education officers and teachers throughout the school year. And the most disadvantaged students will, of course, be those, more effortful, who have invested more time and means in order to improve their classification and now see their legitimate expectations frustrated by the government. This is a sign that we cannot give to young people. And the government's arguments don't fit in. First, it was a matter of health safety: preventing too many students from taking the exams. As if it were not possible to use the many basic education classrooms, which will not have classes until September, just to give an example of a solution. Then, the argument was already that teachers would have too many exams to classify and that this could harm their vacation. Therefore, if we understand correctly, the Government intends to harm the interests of students in order to satisfy the interests of teachers. We understand: some people tend to vote more than others, but, as far as priorities are concerned, we are talking about them. And the cherry on the top of the cake: to correct an obvious situation of injustice of students this year, in the face of students of previous years, in access to higher education, the government proposes to stop considering the notes of the national exam also for students of previous years. It's unbelievable! The government not only wants to change the rules in the middle of this game as it proposes to alter them after last year's game is over. The Liberal Initiative does not accept this solution and urges the Government to urgently restore the normal functioning of the national final examinations for this school year. There is no compelling reason not to do so unless the interests of the students come, once again, behind the elective interests of the PS. And I wanted to take advantage of this defense of the students, in the same way, to insist again, as we did during the discussion of the State budget for this year, so that the government would extend the number of students covered by the simple family support contracts. Since the PS governments, driven solely by ideological prejudice, have ended 70 % of the association contracts, which were an important part of the social elevator, the extension of simple contracts would be a way of partially correcting the inequality of opportunities that this crisis brings to the naked and giving more deprived students the freedom to choose their school, public or private. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not put the electoral interests or ideological prejudices in front of the interests of our young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u204	Sir, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u205	I shall finish, Madam President, with this simple sentence: let us re-establish the national examination regime and extend the application of simple contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u206	Mr António Cunha, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u207	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The epidemic outbreak of COVID-19 imposed social distance measures and caused changes in the lives of citizens. In several European countries, examinations have been suspended or eliminated. The government did not opt for such a radical solution by restricting the number of evidence to be carried out in the 22 disciplines that make up the combinations of pairs of disciplines for entry into higher education. PSD values evaluation, exams and merit. In addition, in the current teaching organization, the PSD considers that external evaluation of learning is one of the most effective regulatory instruments, indispensable for proper development of curriculum and learning. It also understands that external evaluation should evolve to assess not only the knowledge but also the ability of students to mobilize this knowledge for problem solving, as well as to think and question critically. For the PSD, the changes proposed by the NAP to correct an apparent injustice may introduce a situation of favoring self-proposed students, to the detriment of the internal students who attended classes during this school year. Moreover, the adoption of this bill will objectively have implications for the quota of teachers available for the task of classifying the examination tests, in particular those of 2. the phase, which will certainly require the readjustment of the school calendar, questioning the normal opening of the next school year. On the other hand, the impact that preventing the improvement of notes has on the option of choice, of committed students and workers, for a course with higher entry notes is relevant and actually frustrated, for many of them, the legitimate expectation of being able to do. There are students whose life project for this school year has been almost exclusively focused on making a systematic and intense preparation to be able to propose again to carry out tests, with a view to improving their average entry. This issue has been taken up by the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education and the Minister of Education as an endangered child. In fact, in the parliamentary hearings of 28 April and 5 May — yesterday, therefore — the leaders of the pasta were never very clear about the actual number of students involved in this process. Literally, they go to the papers! They were protecting themselves in the delimitation of responsibility between folders, i.e. between completion of secondary education and access to higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u208	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u209	I conclude now, Madam President. Access to the possibility of improvement of notes, according to the rules that have long been legally established, despite the current state of calamity in which our country is, cannot be called into question, due to the inoperability or incapacity of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u210	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u211	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, and I will finish, Madam President, schools, directors and teaching staff have always been intelligent and diligent in solving school problems, much of them in conditions of real calamity. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u212	For an intervention, Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u213	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a fundamental problem that must not be ignored: in the words of the Secretary of State John Costa, secondary education is entirely a matter of access to higher education. And it is not just the Secretary of State who says so, also the CNE (National Council of Education) has already warned about this problem. Several parent associations, as well as associations of directors, have already asked for the change of the model, which confirms a two-and-a-half hour proof of the work of three secondary years. Professional associations of teachers also joined this appeal. This is the case of the Association of Professors of Mathematics, whose president came to remember the perverseness that is a system that promotes bad practices, such as the annulment of registrations so that, in two and a half hours of examination, three years of learning are replaced. Many people have come to warn about this problem, less the principals, who consider themselves comfortable with the idea that the mandatory system is being manipulated to be serialized and select the students who will enter higher education. It seems clear to us that we have a problem here to solve and what we are discussing today stems from this problem. Subordination of secondary education to examinations led the Government to choose to reopen schools for examinations. It is not the reopening of schools itself that we are concerned, provided it is gradual, rigorous in the health criteria and respecting labour rights, that the present school is reduced to a centre of explanations for examinations, when there were so many other priorities, social and pedagogical, in the presence of students.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u214	So you're going to propose the end of the exams? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u215	And although the return to classes may mitigate some of the asymmetries of teaching at a distance, it does not erase the disadvantages of students who have no conditions to access this teaching at a distance and will create other inequalities, especially among those who can return to presence classes and those who cannot return to presence classes, among those who return with their teacher and those who return with another teacher any, because it will be necessary to unfold classes, among other inequalities. These problems and inequalities are associated with other problems related to expectations and with all the calculations and strategies that students have to adopt in order to face a system of entry into higher education and completion of secondary education that is too focused on exams. For these students, changes on the edge of the 3. the period is legitimately seen as unfair.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u216	I don't understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u217	This is an atypical year, but that is precisely why we can't let anyone stay behind. When other countries chose different solutions, we asked whether to insist on exposing families and students to higher education access exams, the exit of a pandemic that has changed the lives of all people, is the most effective to ensure equality and if the education system would have no other priorities and other solutions right now. However, the Government's option...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u218	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u219	I will finish, Madam President. The Government's option was to maintain the examinations in July. What the government has to do now is ensure that it takes all necessary measures to keep no one back, so that no one gets hurt, and higher education will also have to do its part. We are available to discuss all forms of mitigating inequalities, but one thing is certain: this pandemic came, once again, to show...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u220	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u221	I will finish, Madam President. As I was saying, this pandemic has once again shown that the current model of access to higher education is not correct, is not fair and has to be changed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u222	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u223	Madam President, this is the time to reform the teaching system; this is the time to find a teaching system that is not so focused on evaluation, examinations, compliance, regardless of the circumstances, with that pre-defined, globalized and impersonal curriculum. This is the time to try to test, using exactly this exceptional state, a model of teaching, an evaluation system that is more focused on the needs and expectations of students. This will also require us to rethink the absolute obsession with entering the university, as if it were the only path of thousands of individuals who make higher education. This requirement, today, also shows us something that we are completely apart: the immense inequality that this whole situation has revealed to us. There are students who have been watching classes on their mobile phone, there are students who do not have a computer, there are students who, regardless of these situations, today are forced to be on a supposed equality, to compete for university education when the conditions are completely different. I would also like to point out that this distance teaching, with its enormous inequalities and enormous difficulty, is also a sign that this is the time of change, long-awaited, for the improvement of the education system...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u224	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u225	...and to give an effective response to the expectations of students and teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u226	Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u227	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have come to speak in this debate specifically on the question of completion of secondary education and access to higher education. Are we in the ideal situation? We're not. In fact, we were not in the ideal situation before, with the unmeasured weight that access to higher education has on secondary education. It would be desirable not to change any rules during a process for which students and families had trained expectations, but this 'normal' is not possible in these circumstances. The response found by the Government seems to us to be adjusted to the conditionalisms present. in this year, there is only evidence to be counted for entry into higher education, the secondary classification results exclusively from internal classifications and thus, the improvement of rating refers only to entry. Students who have conducted national exams in previous school years will have the most favorable situation in calculating the application note, whether or not integrating the effect of the exam results into the final secondary grade. In this context, there are no perfect solutions, our criterion to judge any model is the following: we cannot introduce new inequalities. In the model defined by the Government, students ending the 12. this year they are in a situation of equality with each other and students who ended in previous years are in a situation of equality with each other. The PS attitude has been open to finding the best solutions to this crisis. We are once again available to consider a model that does not introduce new inequalities, but there are proposals in debate that clearly have the effect of introducing new inequalities. Allowing score improvements to raise the internal classification of students of 12. the previous year will introduce a disadvantage for students of the current year. And in order to give the same opportunity to students this year, we would have to perform all the tests as in a normal year and this is not a normal year. We must act within the principle of adherence to reality. The education system is responding, but at the expense of an enormous effort by all stakeholders. However, the ‘study’ operation is tremendously heavy and complex — from its preparation to its classification, passing through the safe distribution throughout the territory and the performance in the room. Only for the improvement of the score last year did we have more than 100 000 students provide proof. So the question is: is it reasonable to invest the entire operational capacity of the public school in exams? Do we want to consume all the teaching work and the vacation itself in the classification and reassessment of exams, when there is so much to do to prepare the next school year in a robust and quality way? Yeah, because we need to know that we have to start saving the next school year. This is crucial for our young people!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u228	It's being demagogic!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u229	In short, we will not be obstacles to further analysis of this issue, but at last we will not give our vote to any solution that favours one another to harm others or that is impracticable in the current state of the world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u230	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u231	Mr President, today the various parliamentary groups that spoke in plenary have identified problems that need to be resolved quickly, pointing out the question of access to higher education and the continuation of studies as a cross-cutting concern, although it is obviously not the only one. However, the CFP considers that, with the possibility of an effective resolution of at least one specific problem, it would be very important that the opportunity to legislate for this purpose should not be wasted, so that, by 15 days or one month, two months or you know how many we are not all here, again, in search of remedies for situations involving injustice. That's the appeal we'd like to leave. In fact, there are currently proposals, in particular the proposal from the CFP, which can enable one or more specific problems to be solved. These proposals can, of course, be worked out within a short period of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u232	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u233	I shall indeed conclude, Madam President. Yes, it is true that we need to rethink the model of access to higher education, and this is a proposal that the CFP has brought to the Assembly of the Republic for years.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u234	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u235	But we are in a very busy time and we have a first deadline by day 11, so it is urgent to take action to resolve a situation that is at the door. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u236	To close this debate, you have the floor of Mrs Bebiana Cunha from the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u237	Mr President, I would like to say here and recall the following: the impossibility of improving the final classification of the subjects by examinations has in fact had the challenge of secondary school students, and this is, for many of them, the only viable option to improve their internal average, allowing them to increase the possibility of entering the higher education course they want. There is a petition with more than 8,000 signatures. I would also like to deconstruct what has been said about numbers. In the survey that we have available, unless the Ministry actually introduces another one, it is estimated that 19 000 students intend to take proof of entry and improvement of internal note. As the Government has now implemented only a reduction of 5000 exams is expected. Another aspect has been repeated here, which, yesterday, has also been conveyed to us in the Education Committee, and it seems to us that there is confusion here. It is repeatedly said that, in the second phase, traditionally, two thirds of the tests performed are for improvement of the grade and this may compromise the activity of teachers in September, when it is intended to be concentrated at the beginning of the next academic year. Only our proposal does not refer to internal students who will make improvements in the second phase. Here I refer to the PSD Parliamentary Group, which seems to want to discriminate against students who have already completed their disciplines in previous years and who have always had the opportunity to see their internal note relevant to this purpose. Therefore, we make this warning, including by reiterateing that the opinion of CNAES (National Commission for Access to Higher Education), which has been invoked as what has been solved by injustices and inequalities, does not alert students who conclude 12 this year. the year and which correspond to 70% of students taking improvement exams. So if there is an openness and a desire to actually solve the problem of our students and not to frustrate dreams, expectations and the construction of projects, then I appeal to you to solve surgically what will be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u238	We move on to point 8 of our agenda, which consists of the joint discussion of draft resolution No 405 / XIV / 1. a (PV) — Information to citizens on best practices of waste deposition, such as protective masks and gloves, of the Bill No 353 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Definition of rules and regulations for waste management operations in general and of Resolution Projects Nos 417 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the creation and wide dissemination of a communication campaign to raise awareness of populations for the proper packaging and storage of household waste, 418 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — National awareness campaign on the correct deposition of waste of individual protective materials against the COVID-19 pandemic and, where possible, the use of reusable materials, 424 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — To carry out a national information campaign on waste disposal used in the prevention of the current health crisis and 425 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government promote good practice in relation to individual protective equipment for the prevention of the contagio of the new coronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ). To present the draft resolution of the ENP, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u239	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The COVID-19 pandemic has imposed a fairly broad set of restrictions and changes to the daily habits of the generality of people, with a view to preventing, containing, mitigating and treating this disease. The imposition of confinement must have left out many people who, in a heroic way, taking into account the exposure to the danger to which they were subjected, made the country continue to function in what was essential. From then on, health professionals, who are on the front line, but also security forces, waste collection workers and all those who have allowed, for their work, the provision of other services essential to the population. To all of us, we reinforce our deep gratitude and recognition. The established rules of voluntary confinement and, later, mandatory, allowed people to continue to support those who needed them and to buy the essential goods, which means that, for one reason or another, there were always those who continued to move on the street. In the face of the situation, many people, even without the express recommendation of the health authorities, soon chose to wear protective masks and gloves. And, as we have seen, with the passing of time and with the most consolidated knowledge, the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ) itself, also taking into account the indications of the World Health Organization ( WHO ), began to recommend the use of mask as a complement to protection, but never as a substitute for other decisive behaviors, such as washing hands properly, coughing to the forearm, avoiding taking hands to the face, among others. Thus, a considerable number of people chose to use the mask, making it more common. The question that was raised next, regarding the use of disposable masks more often, was the unacceptable way that many began to drop the masks and disposable gloves to the floor. On the other hand, other people, out of ignorance, understood that by the composition of the material, it was correct to deposit these materials in the plastic waste storage and packaging. The recommendation, however, is that this material be placed in a bag and that this bag be placed in the container for non-differentiated waste. However, it is evident that this recommendation is not reaching the population in a massive and intense manner. The Green Party believes that it is essential to carry out this information in an effective way, subject to the fact that we are adding a problem, which is waste treatment, to another problem, which is that of the pandemic itself. The Greens therefore recommend that the Government promote an intense information and clarification campaign for citizens on best practices of waste deposition, such as masks and gloves used to protect COVID-19.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u240	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u241	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All the dimensions of our lives have suffered the consequences of the pandemic. In addition to the health response to the infected, the progression of COVID-19 puts us before the task of learning how to live with precautions and measures to contain the disease. The State has a fundamental role here, using all means to break the mechanisms of dissemination by the population, namely by protecting those who are most exposed to infection. Among the essential public services, those that cannot stop, we have the collection and treatment of waste, a sector whose workers may be particularly exposed to sources of COVID-19 contamination. That is why the Portuguese Environment Agency has presented a set of recommendations and guidelines to ensure the protection of public health, workers and prevent the spread of the disease, compatible with the need for effective and efficient management of waste. Thus, and taking advantage of to remember, gloves, masks and other protective materials, even if they are not contaminated, should not, in any case, be placed in the selective collection container or deposited in the ecopoint. They must be placed in resistant and disposable garbage bags and subsequently deposited in the container of undifferentiated waste. The question is: to whom did this information actually come? Were these standards widely publicized, allowing their adoption by the entire population? We believe that, today, compliance with these procedures is not guaranteed in any way, because most people did not have access to that information. Therefore, the CFP proposes to carry out a campaign to disseminate standards and procedures that citizens should follow for the deposition of urban waste in containers intended for this purpose. On the other hand, as is known, in several municipalities it was chosen to stop the selective collection of urban waste in order to avoid contamination of workers in this sector. But it is of the utmost importance that selective collection is maintained or resumed, avoiding increasing waste intended for incineration and landfilling and thus promoting waste recovery and safeguarding environmental values. To this end, the CFP proposes that standards and procedures be implemented in the context of the operation of manual sorting of urban waste, ensuring the maintenance of public health and the safeguarding of the health of workers in the sector, and that the different urban waste management entities adapt the operating conditions of their units to the new requirements that the epidemic outbreak has imposed. As we have said, the virus does not kill rights, and the rights to a healthy environment and to safety at work are no exception either. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u242	Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u243	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are discussing initiatives with the same concern, which point to the same and which even complement each other, initiatives on waste collection and treatment — an important sector which during this emergency period has not stopped, so that we can serve all of us continuously — initiatives with environmental concerns and, above all, public health concerns. In times of pandemic crisis urban waste management becomes even more important. First, with the Portuguese closed at home, producing more waste and overloading the systems. Then, with thousands of infected citizens, convalescent in their homes, whose waste follows the same circuits as the others. And now, with the Portuguese returning to their activities and using them, in large quantities, masks, gloves and other personal protective equipment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is necessary to ensure the effectiveness and functioning of waste management systems. It is necessary to disseminate and advertise effectively the good practices that Portuguese should take into account in the packaging and deposition of their waste. We need to raise awareness, we need to train. Only in this way can we avoid health problems, avoid infection by this way, ensure the safety of those who work in the collection and management of waste and contribute to the good of all. That is why it is imperative that a national campaign should be carried out which reaches everyone and informs everyone about this matter. Only then can we have in every Portuguese a public health officer in this respect as well. That is what the PSD urged the government to do at the beginning of April and now reaffirms with this project that some information has been disclosed, but not at the initiative of the government, nor with scope and quantity that we believe is necessary. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u244	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Nelson Peralta, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u245	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, the number of masks, gloves and other personal protective materials that are going to waste has increased. It is a natural result of people's protection, but it is also a new problem for society and a problem that needs a new solution. It is therefore a problem that is dangerous, because there may be greater contamination if more contaminated waste exists, and in particular this protective material. It is a risk situation especially for those working in cleaning, for those working in the collection and treatment of waste and for all professionals who have worked in the first line of response to this pandemic, men and women who, with their work, with their sweat, have allowed us to overcome the first phase of the epidemic and now face this second phase. And it is also a risk to society as a whole, which can increase the risk of contamination on the part of these materials. We must therefore find solutions. The proposal that the Left Block brings here is very simple and has this objective. This is a national campaign to raise awareness and disseminate good practices in the use, reuse and deposition of such materials in waste. A campaign to be disseminated in various ways through all available media and in partnership with authorities and waste management entities. We propose, of course, that an essential thing be disclosed: that, whenever possible and whenever this maintains the protection of public health, the material of protection in question, in particular masks, be re-usable. It is an essential response to reduce waste. Reduce the amount of waste protects resources, the environment and the planet and helps not to overload waste collection and treatment services. But it allows even more protection of society: less contaminated waste reduces risks to society as a whole and protects society as a whole. It is therefore necessary to disseminate how to properly use reusable masks and other equipment, such as how to use them, how to wash them and how to reuse them. With regard to reusable materials at end of line or waste, it is also necessary to disseminate the good form of depositing in waste. These standards already exist, but unfortunately they do not have a disclosure of the entire population and it is essential that this happens, essential to protect professionals, but also, as I said, to protect all people. Finally, we propose the creation of a deposit system and the collection of such waste in areas where there is a considerable influx of people, including supermarkets, multibank boxes and parking lots. Public information is always important, but it is even more precious in these pandemic times. An informed society is more protected. Society is playing a key role in the protection of each person and, in particular, of people most likely to contract the disease. Voluntary membership of society in response to the pandemic has been one of the most effective assets of this process. We therefore encourage this response and solidarity society, all information for more conscious and safer choices and public services that respond to the great challenges that the pandemic presents to us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u246	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u247	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current health crisis has again shown us that many people are not in possession of information on the proper deposition of waste, especially those used in the prevention of the current epidemic. We have found on social communication and social networks several images of inadequate discard of masks and gloves on the public street and also of their incorrect deposition on plastic ecopoints and packaging. Even last Thursday, we heard in this Parliament the Secretary of State for the Environment say, emphatically, that « masks on the ground, no». to which we should add: « masks and gloves in the ecopoint neither». However, the message continues not to be passed on to all citizens. The problem of improper deposition of waste in ecopoints is prior to this pandemic and poses the health of workers at screening stations, where there is human intervention and manual contact with waste. Plastic waste and packaging are first deposited in the ecopoints and subsequently referred to a sorting station where they are manually separated by operators. The proper deposition of hazardous wastes, because they are potentially contaminated by pathogenic agents, such as bacteria and viruses, is essential to reduce the risk of occupational accidents of contamination of screening station operators. In the coming days, probably for quite a while, we will, as it is proper, wear masks and gloves. Inadequate discard or deposition of masks and gloves used in inappropriate receptors may cause environmental contamination or increase the risk of contamination of workers in the waste sector. That is what we want to avoid and therefore we advocate that the Government should develop an information campaign at national level on the proper deposition of waste in ecopoints and also on the correct deposition of gloves and masks used in the containers of the undifferentiated waste. This information campaign should also highlight the benefits of the use of reusable masks. Despite health constraints, we must, as soon as possible, continue to bet on the reduction and reuse of goods in order to reduce waste. Millions of masks will be used in Portugal per month and we must make the effort, obviously without compromising public health, to minimize the waste they cause. It is essential that the correct information reaches all citizens, for our health and for the health of workers in the waste sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u248	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Hugo Pires, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u249	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The recommendation presented by the Socialist Party today concerns the promotion of good practices regarding the deposition of waste personal protective equipment for the purpose of preventing the contagio of the new coronavirus ( SARS-CoV-2 ). The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has three objectives: to protect, alert and raise awareness. Protecting workers from waste collection and treatment from the COVID-19 contamination—to whom the PS uses to pay their tribute here, women and men who ensure an essential service in the lives of all of us. Protect each one of us, because only prevention will continue to prevent proliferation of recorded cases. It aims to alert, so that the right message reaches the Portuguese because the deposition of personal protective equipment outside the points of collection of undifferentiated waste, in addition to causing an environmental problem, is also a serious risk to public health. And it aims to raise awareness: awareness of the preferential use of reusable social masks, because re-use of masks is essential to reduce the environmental and social impact, allowing the production of waste. In order to respond to these three objectives, the Socialist Party proposes that the Government promote a awareness-raising campaign that strengthens information on the correct deposition of individual protective equipment for the prevention of contagio and reports on the impacts of the incorrect deposition of such equipment. In addition, the Government purchased 15 million euros of advertising in media, with the aim of disseminating information from the Directorate-General for Health related to the COVID-19 pandemic as well as related to other social issues, which incentivises the production, marketing and use of reusable social masks — repeat, reusable masks — in accordance with the standards already established by the CITEVE (Technological Centre for Textile and Clothing Industries), and which, in dialogue with the authorities, ensures the strengthening of sensitive waste containers with large companies in supermarkets, hospitals, public buildings, schools and public transport. Only then will the Portuguese realize, from the very first moment, that the fight against COVID-19 depends on us all. And this fight is going well. Now, when it comes to gradually returning to normality, the fight against COVID-19 continues to depend on everyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u250	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u251	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the PCP bill we are not going to pronounce, because we are still examining it in more detail, but in relation to the other initiatives presented here, they somehow aim to fill a gap. The COVID-19 pandemic led, by the population in general, to the use of masks, to the use of gloves, to the use of various individual protective equipment to protect the coronavirus. The Ministry of Environment and Climate Action, APA ( Portuguese Environment Agency) and ERSAR ( Regulatory Authority for Water and Waste Services ) created guidelines for the population on waste management. They did it, and good. The problem is that the general population does not have knowledge of these same guidelines and therefore they serve very little, since they have not been disclosed. So here, as has already been mentioned in this debate, there is a problem in terms of what can be the contamination itself and the spread of the virus, whether with workers or for the general population. But there is also something extremely positive, which is the incentive to use and use reusable materials, and which must also be a priority. With regard to the national campaign, the CDS follows the proposal put forward in this regard, as is evident. It is appropriate to disseminate and disseminate guidelines and recommendations for the protection of public health and there must be a particular involvement of the authorities themselves, which have, as it is evident, an essential role in raising awareness of their populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u252	Mr Joacine Katar Moreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The health issue cannot be dissociated from the environmental issue. Saving the planet is every day more obvious, it also means saving our existences, ours, that of animals and that of all the beings that inhabit this planet. But in order to protect ourselves individually, collectively and socially, it is important not to forget that both plastic gloves and disposable masks are not helping that goal. Therefore, it is necessary to begin by limiting the exponential consumption of disposable plastic that has been verified in this pandemic situation. This will raise a huge problem of increasing waste and also of its treatment. I agree, of course, with all the previous interventions with regard to the need of the Government to wager as quickly as possible in a muscular pedagogy, and also to encourage the use of non-disposable masks. It is more ecological and it is also more economical. And the Assembly can set the example, avoiding each and every one of us individually using disposable masks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u254	We have reached the end of this debate. For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u255	Mr. President and Mrs. Members: At the end of this debate, we must not fail to note the fact that almost all parties have come to meet the concerns of the Greens, which well attests to the importance of the subject we have brought to the debate, namely the need to give an appropriate destination to individual protection materials after use, avoiding problems with the treatment of other wastes and safeguarding workers who have to deal with them. These anonymous men and women will not be too grateful and remember that their appreciation does not go through just good words and praises that the wind will bring. To value solid waste workers is to comply with their demands and complaints, to assign fair wages to them and to grant them the benefit of risk and health. However, it seems necessary to strengthen the idea that individual protective materials should be properly used because, in addition to protecting those who use them, it is also a way of being able to socialize and work more safely. We remember that we can choose to use reusable masks, which will have a longer working life. We must not forget to comply with all the other protective measures, which must also be exhaustively remembered. In times of pandemic it will not be a responsible attitude to stop separating waste. It is necessary to continue putting them on the nearest ecopoints. Even if the collection brings the door to waste such as plastic, paper and glass has been interrupted in some municipalities, we all need to make an additional effort to keep the waste separated. The behaviour acquired over the years must remain in the name of a higher quality of life for all and of environmental respect. [[Congrats from PCP MP Alma Rivera.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-05-06.u256	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of our agenda. Tomorrow, 7, we have a plenary meeting at 3 p.m. with the following agenda : debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( 2 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, followed by the discussion of the Bill No. 30 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the exceptional and temporary response measures to the COVID-19 pandemic, ending with the regimental votes. I wish them a good rest of the day. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 25 minutes.]]
