ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda has seven points of debate, but before we begin, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has several information to give. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted the following legislative initiatives: Proposals for Resolution Nos 11 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) and 12 / XIV / 2. a ( GOV ) ; Draft Law No. 506 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ), 507 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 509 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 510 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 511 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) ; and Resolution Projects Nos 627 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ), 628 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 629 / XIV / 2. a ( PAN), 630 / XIV / 2. a ( PCP ) and 631 / XIV / 2. a ( CDS-PP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u3	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. It is clear from Parliament's website that the topics addressed by each of these initiatives are identified. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then begin the first point of our agenda today, which is that of the evaluation of the Draft Resolution No 561 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government create a social tariff for access to Internet services. Mr Filipe Pacheco, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party today brings to this House the discussion of a draft resolution for the creation of a social tariff for access to Internet services, because it believes that today the Internet is an absolutely essential good for the whole population. We understand that it is the function and responsibility of the State to ensure that no one stays behind in the current process of digital transformation that we all live and that we understand that this digital transition must be made by protecting rights and freedoms and ensuring equal opportunities for all citizens. It is in this context that we defend a free and open internet and that its access is a universal and economically accessible right. But the extent that we present here today is not an avous and isolated measure, it is part of a much broader programme, an idea for the country that is materialized in the Action Plan for Digital Transition, which was approved at the beginning of the year by the current government, in the field of Digital Portugal, and which is a strategic document that seeks to achieve three main priorities: digital training of people, digital transformation of companies and the digitization of the state. This is a measure that is also aligned with the training initiatives of INCoDe.2030 ( National Digital Competences Initiative e.2030 ), also created by the current government, which aims to increase digital literacy and the use of digital public services. And it is also in the context of the growing path that is being taken in the modernization of the Public Administration that it is important that there are no barriers to Internet access for the use of public services, such as to make the renewal of the citizenship card remotely or to mark an online health consultation. If this was not enough, the isolation that most Portuguese lived a few months ago reminds us that Internet access is already in our lives and that without this network we would be confined or in almost absolute isolation. And if it is true that the pandemic has accelerated the digital transformation of companies and governments, it is also true that it has placed in greater evidence the difficulties experienced by society's most vulnerable groups in access to technological tools, with consequent and obvious social inequalities. For all these reasons, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group wants the Government to create a social internet tariff, similar to the current social electricity tariff, which can contribute not only to reduce the financial burden of the most vulnerable consumers, but also to ensure that the price is never, under any circumstances, a factor of exclusion in universal access to this service. We also propose that the allocation of this right be made through a simple and automatic process for the citizen. No one will have to ask for this fee, whoever is entitled will benefit from it automatically unless he says that he does not want to benefit from it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Termo, convening all parties to join the Socialist Party in approving this project. on our part, the Socialist Party remains fully committed to the construction of a modern, innovative Portugal and in the front line of the information society, which means protecting and providing conditions for those who are less able to meet the challenges of digital transition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u5	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês Sousa Real of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The creation of a social Internet tariff is undoubtedly a fundamental step towards ensuring equal opportunities in access to this essential public service, especially in a context where the Internet use rate is lower than the European Union average by 12 %, which is why we welcome the Socialist Party's initiative in this House. In the 21st century, the fight for equal opportunities in access to education, the labour market, culture and leisure is also made by combating inequalities in access to the Internet. For this reason the NAP will not only follow this PS proposal, as it has already submitted a letter of the digital rights which, leaving the essential of the regulation to the Government, proposes to ensure the legal framework of the social rate of the Internet and its potential beneficiaries, which we believe should be the beneficiaries of social benefits, the unemployed (with or without benefit) and the family aggregates of low incomes. We hope that, in fact, on 1 October, at the time of the discussion of this digital letter, proposed by the NAP, Parliament will also not give up its powers and will be able to develop the basic framework needed to implement this important measure which is now to be recommended to the Government. But the inequality of Internet access goes far beyond the obstacles that are associated with its price. In compulsory education, for example, we know that a quarter of the students do not have a computer, a problem that got naked at the height of the health crisis. Therefore, equal access is also ensuring that the digitalization promises in education are fulfilled and that the cases of students without computers do not repeat again this school year. Not to do so is not to fulfill the right to education for our children and young people. But we also know that about one fifth of the rural areas in our country are not served by broadband and that in many areas of the interior, many are the complaints received by ANACOM (National Communications Authority ) that operators charge services that in practice are not provided either by their discontinuity or by the speed of the internet. To keep this scenario is to discriminate against citizens depending on where they live and also to question the competitiveness of the interior. Finally, we know that mobile data in Portugal are of the most expensive in Europe and that operators keep artificially low data packages to encourage adherence to zero rating packages. Maintaining this scenario, more than violating the right of neutral access to the Internet, is creating inequalities and social and regional asymmetries that we cannot continue to allow. For this reason, the NAP will also defend the prohibition of unfair practices of zero ratings and the punishment of non-compliance by ANACOM.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u7	You now have the floor for an intervention by the Liberal Initiative, Mr João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Welcome to another « liberal minute», today dedicated to the irony of life, irony, these, which I think have gone unnoticed by the PS in this draft resolution. First irony: 20 years after the introduction of internet services in Portugal, thousands of Portuguese people are still unable to pay them and that is why the discussion of a social tariff is justified. I would not be able to remind myself of a greater confession of the failure of socialist governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u9	So the market didn't solve? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u10	Second irony: it is the PS itself that demands the PS Government to comply with a resolution that has already taken in April. I know that the PS is not the only party to celebrate the April Revolution, but it is the only party to celebrate the April resolution. Third irony, and this a little bit with sadism lavys, but it must be coincidence: by chance, all those services that you want to guarantee in basic access also serve to strengthen the tax position. Otherwise, let's see: access to digital public services, certainly with the AT (Tax and Customs Authority) site to the head; homebanking, to pay the tax more quickly; e-mail, to easily receive those missiles and notifications in ViaCTT. Last irony, and this is one that I really do not understand:...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u11	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u12	... until the PS asks the PS government to be simple, because you already know that these things, by complications, can stay in the drawer. So that there can be no doubt, Mr President, we will not unfeasible this draft resolution, in solidarity with thousands of Portuguese people who cannot afford to pay the Internet. But this, really, is no longer irony, it is sadness.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u13	Mr Hugo Carvalho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Not even those who are often in deep denial here can deny that there is a new dimension of power, of the economy and also of politics, which is digital. None of us deny that we live more in times of information selection than in times of access to information. And no one denies that, although it has never been voted here or referendum, the Internet has changed our lives deeply and our country. Today, having the internet is to have more health, it is to have more information, it is to have economic freedom, it is to do and, above all, to take part in contemporary society and our collective future. I have often spoken here, Mr President, about the new inequality we face, the new exclusion, which is digital and technological. And we have heard many times that we are all born equal in rights and opportunities, but the next day is the real challenge, by the place where we are born, by our family environment or by our social environment. Many have stayed behind and are left behind all those who have not yet been able to learn to deal with technology and especially those who do not yet have access to it. The PSD wants things to go well with the country and wants things to work well with the Portuguese and, therefore, we support this intention of the government and we also, of course, show it to this initiative and to all those who serve to remind the government of what it still has to accomplish and achieve. What we do not want to do, however, is lose an opportunity to focus on what is essential. And the essential is not a social tariff, the essential is access to the network, which has left 40 % of people in the countryside of Europe, as the President of the European Commission reminded us, and which has aggravated the asymmetries we have all known for many years in the national territory. A social internet tariff can undoubtedly mean a lot to some Portuguese, but it means little or almost nothing to many, many Portuguese who live in regions without broadband, without high speed and sometimes without network. Therefore, very directly, what we ask of the Government and also share with the Socialist Party and the other parties is, first and foremost, that the Socialist Party and the Government do not again confuse the social state with an electoral state or a socialist state. The social tariff should be designed for family members who really need support. It is because many were social measures—I remember offering school textbooks to everyone, reducing tips to everyone—but they forgot that they were reducing and offering to those who could actually pay, and could continue to pay, further exacerbating inequalities and thus making the opposite of what they say defend. A second note is for the Government to comply with and transpose, as soon as possible, the European Code of Electronic Communications, ensuring the technological neutrality of the tariff, which cannot be only fixed-line, and also ensuring that the tariff meets the basic services of use of the Internet by any citizen. Finally, we ask that the Government be able to cooperate with the operators, to whom it will certainly ask for help in this area, so that the real problem I have already mentioned is to be unblocked: finally to fulfil in Portugal a universal high-speed network service that does not leave part of the country outside, because it is certainly no longer a social tariff that comes to put the internet anywhere, much less where there is no mobile network in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u15	It is the turn of the Greens to take part in the debate, so Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent months, with the pandemic forcing routines, we have been confronted with the importance of daily telecommunications, for businesses, for public services, for ordinary users and even for the most discredited, who have used it to be closer to their family and friends. Access to the Internet is close to broad steps of the need for a very essential, such as electricity. However, not everyone has access to this service and, with increasing difficulties in thousands of Portuguese families, this is the first expense to be cancelled from the family budget. In view of the necessity of the Internet, the high costs and the economic difficulties of many Portuguese people, the establishment of a social tariff, as is the case with other essential services, is the issue on the agenda. The Action Plan for Digital Transition submitted by the Government provides, among several measures for the alleged transition, for the creation of a social tariff for access to Internet services that will allow more widespread use, in order to promote the inclusion and digital literacy in the most disadvantaged layers of the population. But it is important to consider other variables, since Internet access is not as universal as other essential services. The internet service is very asymmetrical in terms of coverage and its speed and The Greens believe that once again they may be building the house on the roof. It is not possible to leave anyone behind and for this reason access to the Internet can be economically accessible, but national coverage of the network is necessary, eliminating the geographical discrimination that has occurred. At the end of the previous school year, many were the difficulties experienced by teachers and students due to the lack of access to the Internet. I recall the case of the teacher who worked in the car, in a place where she could have access to the network, or that of the students in Penalva do Castelo, who attended the online classes in the pendant of the Board of Freguesia due to weak internet coverage. The situation we have reached, of the lack of coverage in many areas of the country, as regards either the mobile broadband network or fibre coverage, is not foreign to the privatization of PT ( Portugal Telecom ), a company that should be under the control of the State, because, as we know, operators are more concerned with their profits than with the difficulty experienced by the citizen. The Greens consider it necessary not only to create a social tariff for Internet services, in the same forms as the social gas and electricity tariff, but also to ensure that contracts where the social tariff is applied are not subject to loyalty; to guarantee minimum standards of quality of the provision of services; and to ensure, fairly, the use of telecommunications technologies and the use of services by the national territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u17	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Between December 2009 and December 2019, in this area of access to telecommunications, in average terms in the countries of the European Union, consumer prices had a reduction of 9 %. In the same period, in Portugal, we had an increase of 7 %, the second largest increase in the European Union. Currently, Portugal is in 22. the position among the 23 European countries indicated by ANACOM in terms of mobile broadband penetration. We have lower coverage than the average of the European Union countries and only 83 % of the service availability, and we are among the three European countries with lower average download rate and also in all countries where the tested speed is the lowest. Last year, Altice Portugal saw profits in EUR 832 million; Ours closed the financial year 2019 with a net result of EUR 143, EUR 5 million; Vodafone Portugal did not announce these net results, stating only that it had paid the mother house, the multinational Vodafone, at EUR 75, EUR 2 million. Vodafone's mother-in-law, however, presented an overall turnover of EUR 45 billion with profits of EUR 14 900 million. Here you are, gentlemen. Members, the result of the liberalized market to function, after the privatisations that PS, PSD and CDS so enthusiasticly carried out and of the liberalisation of the sector. When we have this scandal of prices in access to telecommunications and the profits of multinationals who took account of this sector, we find that it is weak to respond to a country indicating that there will be a social tariff to subsidize the payment of access of the poorest to telecommunications. Mrs. Members, this national scandal in the prices of Internet access and telecommunications is not a problem of the poorest, it is a problem of the national economy. It is a problem of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and productive sectors, and a problem across the country and cannot have as the only response from the PS Government, with the agreement of the PSD and other parties, as we have seen, in this matter, only those who have the most difficulties. This is a concrete difficulty, transversal to the national economy and to the productive sectors, by having this situation of an economy that is reputed by the multinationals that have in fact taken over the non-marketable sectors of the economy. This is a structural problem of the national economy. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, an economic policy will be necessary and inconsequential to put on the front of the debate the effective capacity to have a sector at the service of the people and the country, which has tariffs and services consistent with the needs of the population and the economy. Don't send people home on telework and then say the poorest people will have a discount. Don't make the real economy a multinational shock bag and then say there's going to be a social tariff. It is also necessary to place public control of the sector at the heart of the debate, in an effective and stable way in relation to our economy, so that it is, in fact, a development factor and a strategic factor in modernising the economy, not what has happened to the deep penalization of these sectors and populations. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u19	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The theme that the PS brings to the debate is, without doubt, relevant and certainly one of the most important debates of our decade. The digitization of the economy and society, not being something quite new, has gained a higher speed in recent years and obviously, since the pandemic, access to Internet and telecommunications services has proved to be another factor of potential inequality. That is why we need to answer. We know that the debate on access to certain services, such as energy, gas or water, is already old, but still there are many people with no access or difficulties in accessing them. This had to do with ways of looking at the national economy, particularly with the privatization of some strategic companies that provided these types of services essential to each one of us each day. Therefore, with the passing of time and the evolution of technology, the debate around the Internet and telecommunications services also fits a little in the same way, asking the question, which we will then have to answer, whether or not we are in the face of an essential good or a universal good. We know that at present we are not faced with a universal good, because we know, and I fear - we have discussed it widely, especially in the last year, the difficulties of network coverage that exist in our country. And why? Because it is dependent on private interests rather than public interests, on mistakes made in the past with regard to the privatization of such infrastructures. Therefore, we also know that it is this type of discussion that determines what are the factors of inequality in our society. For this reason, the example of the social energy tariff proposed by the Left Block, which the Socialist Party has sought for this draft resolution that we have on the table, is well illustrated by how such mechanisms help in combating poverty. However, even if they help in this fight, they will not be the most relevant in this matter. We must accompany the debate on a possible social tariff for the Internet and telecommunications, but at the same time we must deepen with regard to prices, as has already been mentioned. In the Committee on Economic Affairs we have discussed this issue very much, and in the case of Portugal, the data on what is happening with prices are absolutely significant. If to study, to work or simply to contact our family, we are so dependent on this kind of service, because we do not change the chip, that is, why do we not change the way we look at this good, so that it can be universal? We must realize that this has to do with the need for coverage, which has to emerge from the interests of a monopoly of three large operators who basically decide on their own what they want, who decide how the coverage is done at national level, and the islands also now. Therefore, we are completely dependent on private interests because some years ago we resigned, as a country, to keep these interests public. Mr President, with regard to the concrete proposal on the table, it is quite broad, quite generic and, indeed, does nothing more than follow up on something that has already been adopted in a Resolution of the Council of Ministers. from our point of view, it is obviously important that we can make the way for a social tariff on the Internet or telecommunications, but we also say that we need to go further in this matter. It is necessary to discuss prices and their regulation, loyalty issues, regulation of the market itself and essentially the retention of the infrastructure needed for network coverage in Portugal, which is still very low today. This in a country that is called civilized and that wants to make a digital transition, this digital transition cannot be done if we continue with the current infrastructure because they are dependent on private interests. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u21	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to say to the Socialist Party that the CDS follows this initiative which aims to recommend to the Government the creation of a social tariff for access to Internet services, broadband services, and that it meets European guidelines and directives.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u23	That's what I was saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u24	The 21st century is a digital century and therefore, as it is evident, the countries that are at the forefront of the digital transition will be better prepared for the challenges they will encounter. Whether the state, whether businesses or citizens, we all have to make the same transition and this can only be achieved by massive Internet access. Therefore, a reduced rate, which takes account of the correction of asymmetries at the level of the population's incomes, that is to say, allowing precisely access to this internet, is something positive, and there must be an effort by the State and the whole society to promote inclusion and digital literature. The question that arises, and which has not yet been heard in this debate, is the following: who pays for this? Who's gonna pay? It is a need for society, it is a need for the country, but there must be a public funding effort precisely at this same rate. Only with this funding effort, only with that signal on the part of the State, will we surely speed up this whole process and reach more people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u25	I mean, we subsidize!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u26	in this area and in this domain, the CDS presented a draft resolution at 5G level, which basically recommends the following: that it be defined that the State create incentives so that, in the 5G auction process, operators may benefit if they start their investments in terms of infrastructure precisely within the country, i.e. precisely in areas where there is less access to the network and communications. This would be a good sign for the country, taking into account the debate we have so many and so many times about how to appreciate and develop the interior. They are small measures, but they are very large to position the interior of the country at the same level as the large urban centers and the coastal area. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u27	You have the floor for an intervention Mr. André Ventura, from arrive.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed today a proposal coming from the Socialist Party for a service that had been promised for several years, not to say for several decades. We have 20 % of family aggregates — repeat, 20 % — without Internet access, we have 5 % of our students without Internet access, we have families that pay, on average, 700 € per year on the Internet and telecommunications. Last year, the Prime Minister promised that until July this year, all families and students would have access to the Internet and a computer to access content that would be transmitted digitally. Where are we? Oh, my God! Exactly at the same point. We are putting forward initiatives to shut down the policy on the other side. It is the same as saying « we have already approved». But what did we do? Oh, my God! Absolutely nothing. The arrival will follow this initiative, but with the requirement that it be effectively met. [[PS MP Joana Lima's protests.]] As for market regulation, Mr Bruno Dias, I would like you to tell me one thing: what is the Communist country in which the Internet is more accessible than in Portugal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u29	Ignorant!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u30	What is the Communist country in which the Internet is so cheap that citizens can't even access it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u31	Mr. Deputies, you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u32	I will finish, Mr. President. It is very nice to see Mr Deputy, representative of the Communist Party, say « this internet », « that internet », when, in the countries in which you live. Ex.as govern, you can't even access Google and Youtube. You should be ashamed!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u33	Mr Filipe Pacheco of the PS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party welcomes and appreciates the support of the majority of the political forces present here. This reveals the importance and relevance of the project we present. I would like to stress—because, often, when it comes to protecting the most vulnerable, there are always those who respond a bit upset—that I found quite ironic the intervention of Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, who came to this Chamber complaining that there are consumers who cannot afford some communications services. I ask you: isn't it the honourable Member who claims that the market should operate freely? Or are you arguing that the State should intervene in the functioning of the market? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u35	You don't have the internet, do you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u36	from the Socialist Party, responding in a bloc to all interventions and questions, we understand, yes, that it is very important that the creation of this social tariff be made in parallel and in the context of the transposition of the European telecommunications code, even to ensure the minimum debt for universal service, that is, the guarantee of quality of service. The creation of this tariff must also be parallel to the definition of other measures already taking place, such as that of the digitalisation programme for schools, which also has a part providing for access to the students' internet. We believe that the central issue in this area is safeguarded, which is the creation of a social tariff for access to Internet services, i.e. protecting those who are most vulnerable, in the path of this digital transition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u37	We are thus at the end of the first item on our agenda. The second point deals with the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 474 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Special social support programme for former COFACO workers. You have the floor to open the debate, Mr Paulo Moniz, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A COFACO ( Commercial and Fabril de Conservas, S.A. ) is a conservation company present on the island of Pico since 1963. He was the largest industrial employer on the island and always maintained a close link, particularly with the council of Madelena, having played for many years, in addition to the industrial role, an important social role. The closure of the COFACO factory, on the island of Pico, in January 2018, affected directly about 180 jobs and so many others indirectly. COFACO, which was the largest employer of the Pico, representing about 4 % of the active population of the island and 6 % of the municipality of Madalena, closed doors. Almost 1000 days have passed since the announcement of the closure of the factory. on that same day, on the day of the closure, it was also announced that a new factory would be in operation in January 2020, creating expectations for continued linkage to these workers. January 2020 is already going there. We're in September. « It all begins at sea » is what is read when the website of COFACO is opened, which is proud to fish its raw material off the coast of the Azores. First-class fish, already recognised in more than 30 countries, is manipulated by specialized hands that have devoted their entire lives to the conservation industry, which is a very important and significant part of the GDP (gross domestic product ) of the Azores. The governments serve, above all, to side with people and their problems. It is urgent to start the announced new factory, restating these jobs, removing the more than 180 workers from the fragile social conditions in which they are living. They are people who have put in place and who want to continue to put, with their great knowledge, the Portuguese canning industry, with steel mills, in the good mouth of the world and, at the moment, the government lets the difficulties increase, without doing anything. Many of the workers dismissed from COFACO have already ceased to receive the unemployment allowance, currently without alternatives in a very limited labour market and even more fragile with the economic and social crisis caused by the pandemic. It is necessary, once and for all, to lay hands on this matter and to help these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u40	We are all elected, in all political quadrants, to represent the citizens of this country—of course also of the Azores—and to give to those who choose clear and preferably fast answers. The former COFACO workers have waited too long without any concrete work being done. I recall that the Azores and Republic Parliaments have adopted recommendations to the Government for the establishment of a special and transitional scheme for the addition of social support. And what was done? Oh, my God! Nothing! This year's State budget obliges the Government to set up this same scheme for the increase of social support. We're almost at the end of the year and what's been done? Oh, my God! Nothing! Despite the apparent unanimity around the resolution of this matter, the government is reluctant to ignore the real drama of the dismissed workers of the COFAC, Pico factory. It is therefore in the hands of the sitting parties in this Parliament to vote on this matter, as often as it may be necessary, to help these people, since this government does not move.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after having been unanimously approved in the Azores and Republic Parliaments, various recommendations to the Government to support the former COFACO workers, it would be convenient for an opposition party to limit itself now to criticising the Executive for failing to comply. But it is not the combat of biased colors that moves us. What moves us is always, and above all, solving the problems of whom we expect solutions. What mobilizes us is to minimize a concrete drama that affects these workers. It's our design. This, and above all this, is our obligation. Instead of just pointing out what is wrong, we have brought up a simple, clear bill that creates a transitional support regime, with the extension of the unemployment allowance period, the increase of social income by 20 % and the family allowance by 25 %, by January 2024, when more than it is expected that the announced new factory is being developed. In the face of all the difficulties that these workers have been waiting for two years for concrete measures which the Government of the Republic has not implemented, there is still one way to resolve this issue: to create this special support regime with force of law. In the face of so much inoperance, there's no other way. Don't count that whistle on the side, as if nothing was with me. I will never shut up until this and other matters are resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u44	This isn't asking, it's not a favor. This is a question of social justice. This is also why we have all been elected, above all and, in this case, those who are here representing the people of our nine islands of the Azores. In the face of such a just and urgent cause, an initiative is under discussion whose fundamental principles are shared by all parties, nothing more is expected than the unanimous approval of this law. I call for consensus in this Parliament, so that together we can set an example so that we can effectively serve politics and help these people. Not to vote in favour of this proposal is to ignore the most vulnerable. Not to vote in favour of this proposal is to fail the former workers of COFACO. Do not vote in favour of this proposal is to vote against the Azores. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u45	You now have the floor by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr. João Castro, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u46	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: I begin by congratulating the Social Democratic Party on raising this debate, with the present initiative, which meets the exposition in Article 55. the State budget, which has been in force since last March, which determines the establishment of a special and transitional system to facilitate access, increase value and prolong the duration of social support to workers of the COFACO factory who are in a state of unemployment. It is important to remember that this Article 55. the result of a proposal from the PCP, which deserved the favourable vote in the specialty as well as in general the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party. We obviously see the need for the PSD to go after the damage, particularly in the face of the regional context, with this manifestation of agreement with the one set out in the 2020 State Budget, given that it has not voted in favour of that same budget. It was a questionable record that we were not used to, coming from the PSD, with which, obviously, we do not agree, but only to themselves and to voters is the assessment of their use, in the belief that everyone has already realized it, even more when it is the proposed text that takes effect only with the 2021 Budget, protecting a situation that everyone wants to speed up.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u47	And what's been done? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u48	For the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, the most important thing is the closure of the COFACO company for the island of Pico and for the Azores. This company has assumed and has a very significant economic and cultural impact of expression which cannot be ignored. This is an issue that dates back to 2018, also in the Assembly of the Republic, which unanimously approved the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 242 / 2018, recommending to the Government to ensure social support for former workers of COFACO, on the island of Pico. Since then, several have been taking positions, either by different parliamentary groups or by trade union structures, or even by government bodies of the Autonomous Region of the Azores. It should also be noted that the regional government has closely followed this whole process, with a view to the construction of a new canning plant on the island of the Pico, and that the Assembly of the Republic received last July the Resolution of the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Azores No 31 / 2020 / A which declared itself due to the urgent need to comply with Article 55. that of the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u49	And...? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u50	at this time, we speak of 110 workers who maintain their active registration. If nothing is done, they will no longer be covered by existing social protection programs. The COVID-19 pandemic and its impacts make it even more evident and urgent the need to find a protection regime for these workers and the local economy. Therefore, either within the framework of the current State budget or within the framework of this initiative, in view of the urgent need to intervene socially with regard to COFACO workers on the island of the Pico, and especially for this reason, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will follow this initiative. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u51	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u52	Good decision!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u53	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said and is known by anyone who knows the island of Pico and, specifically, the council of Madalena, COFACO was, for years, an institution far beyond a company. It had a very significant economic and social impact for the municipality, for the island and even for the region, as regards a traditional industry, the canning industry, which obviously had one of the top exhibits at national level, when, in the rest of the national context, it was losing its importance. It turns out that the closure of the company, having this impact, had the same economic consequence for the island and from the social point of view for all those working in COFACO and their families. From the outset the CDS has accompanied this matter, both at the regional level and at the national level. In January 2018, we raised the question for the first time. at that time, we presented, at the Legislative Assembly of the region, a proposal for the creation of a working group to follow the issue of COFACO in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs. This working group was approved unanimously and was set up following this. Then, several times in Parliament, first by means of a draft resolution, in 2018, second by discussions in the budget for 2019 and 2020, we have always been with those who have approved conditions as good as possible for those who have lost their jobs in COFACO. What are these conditions? First, to reduce the requirements for access to social benefits, i.e. to allow everyone to access these social benefits without restrictions. Then increase these social benefits. Why? Because, knowing the context of the island, the municipality and that social context, a situation of unemployment, by collective dismissal and by closure of an industrial unit, is obviously not the same thing in the Madalena do Pico or in any other municipality of the country. The difficulty of finding an alternative is obviously much greater than in many other situations and this justifies the third measure. The extension of the duration of these social benefits serves precisely so that, in the face of this difficulty, people can have this support for longer. As I said, the CDS has always been on the side of those who supported these initiatives. Today, we will be again, as in 2018, when we propose, in the Legislative Assembly of the region, the creation of the working group, alongside the former workers of COFACO and the best possible conditions for the impact for these and their families to be minimized. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u55	I now give the floor to Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The debates in the Assembly of the Republic on the situation of COFACO and its workers are neither a novelty here nor, unfortunately, in the Legislative Assembly of the Azores. For this reason, in 2017, the Left Block, in the Azores, was the first to ask the Regional Government at the time about the announced relocation of the factory and the consequences that this would bring to hundreds of workers. We remember that COFACO had been subsidized by public money, in the order of several million euros, a situation that should have required greater responsibility for its workers, but also for the region. Over time, the factory closed, the regional government promised that there would be a new factory and that the situation of about 200 workers would be ensured. However, as we have always come to report, the announcements have never passed this and the situation of workers and the region has become worse. For this reason, both in the State Budget for 2019, and in the State Budget for 2020, we presented proposals for increased social support in the same way as other parties, and finally in the State Budget for 2020, the proposal for the CFP was finally adopted, as has already been mentioned. Again, we speak of almost 200 workers, many of whom have advanced ages and have a natural difficulty in finding work alternatives on the island of Pico. To date, what has been approved in the State budget for 2020, i.e. the promise to increase social support has not been fulfilled. But neither has the promise of construction of a new factory been fulfilled, much less the integration of workers into this new industrial unit which has been announced so much and which, to date, remains non-existent. On this point, the Left Block also questioned the European Commission about the European funds that had been specifically addressed to this new unit which has never existed until today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, therefore, considering the history which is known to all, it is not acceptable for the Government to have not yet regulated what was approved in the State budget for 2020 and this has had a clear damage to hundreds of workers and their families. In fact, the Socialist Party Member mentioned Article 55 here. the one who was approved. What no one can understand is that we are in September 2020 and that the Socialist Party Government has not regulated what was approved in the State Budget for 2020 and that protects these workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u57	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u58	Obviously, this should be done as quickly as possible. from the side of the Left Block, from the very beginning we have warned that we have denounced it, which we have proposed here in the Assembly of the Republic, but also in the regional assembly. Therefore, considering that this situation is not acceptable, we have maintained the commitment we have always had in resolving this injustice brought to these hundreds of workers and their families, but also to the economy of the region. For this reason, we will always be on the side of those who present the quickest solutions for solving this situation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u59	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Alma Rivera has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing a matter of vital importance for former COFACO workers and for Pico itself. It is a matter which the CFP has brought in successively, because it is vital to mitigate the social consequences of the closure of this factory. This was the case two years ago when a resolution was adopted to ensure a special system of social support facilitation, and this was the case in the State budget for 2020, when the proposal submitted by the CFP, of social support to COFAC workers, was adopted. at that time, the PSD found it so good, so good that it voted against the Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u61	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u62	The reality is that what has been entered in the Budget is still to be fulfilled, and there are those who are, ladies and gentlemen. Members, since April, without any income, because, in the meantime, unemployment benefit has ended and their income is not being allocated to them. at a time like this, it's indecent what's being done. There are families with no income, we know situations that are truly dramatic. It is indecent that the government has not made its obligation! The workers have already sent a sub-signed to the Government of the Republic to demand what is theirs by law and which has been defined by the State Budget, so it is a rejection of the discussion of the PSD, I say, of the Socialist Party. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u63	Well, but the PCP will continue to use its voice and all means, here and there, to respond to this social emergency. Because, sirs. Members, the impact of the collective dismissal of 300 workers on an island with about 14,000 inhabitants is brutal. It represents a loss of more than 4 % of the active population and 8 % in the municipality of Madalena. It is recalled that we are talking on an island, with all the specificities that this entails, where it is not easy to find work and where it can not go to look for it next door.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u64	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u65	And in order to encourage job creation and the maintenance of existing jobs on the island, it is essential that the population do not lose purchasing power, which was already happening even before the pandemic. Everything that helps mitigate the distressing situation of former COFACO workers and the people of the island of Pico will have the support of the PCP, but we cannot forget, too, that they are necessary alternatives and the economic conversion of the island of Pico to resolve the fundamental issues. And this is done with strong public services, such as health, sea and air mobility, with investment in productive sectors, defending local fisheries and agriculture. This is the only way to guarantee the future of these workers from COFACO, the island of Pico and the Azores. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u66	If there are no more entries, we then enter the final intervention of this point. Mr Paulo Moniz of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are to congratulate the fact that this subject has been discussed several times, both in the Regional Legislative Assembly and in the Assembly of the Republic, on having deserved this broad consensus and finally by the PSD to have a concrete resolution. These are people and, for us, the protection of advertisements and measures that do not translate into something concrete for the lives of people has little interest. I can also refer to Mrs Alma Rivera — it will certainly remind you of the debate that we had just before the holiday, when this was one of your questions to my intervention — that I told you at the time that we were dealing with the matter and that we were going to solve it. As you can see, in just over two months, it's settled. We understand that these priority issues should not be forgotten nor should they be grounds for exclusion from former workers in access to a right and conditions of human dignity, at the end of a life of years and years of work. Finally, I would like to address these former workers. This is an essentially victory of them, a victory of perseverance, a victory of hope over the experience of announced and failed measures. We are talking about people who praise in the name of the region, which we call « marketable goods», which are essential to our economy. From day to day, those who have formal responsibility to defend them and to whom their destiny has been entrusted have left them destitute at the worst moment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u68	We move on to point 3 of the agenda, which consists in the general debate of Bill Nos 483 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Extends the extraordinary scheme for the protection of tenants( 4 ). the amendment to Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March) and 488 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Extends the extraordinary scheme of protection to tenants by 31 December 2021 and defines the deadline for submission of applications for IHRU financial support by 31 December 2020. To open this debate, I call on the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, through Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This project we are presenting here is simple and not new, because we have already done so when we discuss the measures to support and mitigate this pandemic. We propose to extend the deadlines for lease contracts. No, we're not talking about moratoriums and we're not talking about loss of income, we're not talking about long-term contracts in the same initial terms. Translated into children, the suspension now in force until 30 September will become effective until the end of 2020. This occurs in two ways: for those who have already received or come to receive the notice of termination of contract or occupation, within the statutory period, only have to leave the house from 1 January 2021 ; already the contracts that are near the end are also extended until 1 January 2021. In practice, to sum up, all future contracts are extended and will be CL- only until the end of 2020. Why? Because there are several reasons, from the outset of hygiene, public health and conditions for confinement. If we all know that we should wash our hands, keep the distance, use the mask, respect the respiratory label, we also know that we should keep ourselves at home whenever possible and that, if we have contact with someone who is infected, staying at home becomes even compulsory. Now, with the growth in the number of cases, we cannot afford to step up the crisis in housing and exposure to the virus as a society. It's simple and sensible. But there are also reasons for living and health stability for tenants at a time of loss of income. We know that the decline in income values has not been, by far or by close, so marked as the breakdown of incomes. In July, we had about 636 000 unemployed people. of these, only 220 000 would have access to support from this condition. In addition, we speak of hundreds of thousands of workers who were in layoffs, of collective redundancies that occurred and occur, of zero or extremely reduced activity in the case of precarious and service providers, of end-of-term work contracts, and the latter were the first to suffer due to the pandemic. We can see the example of the culture sector and in these cases, and in so many others, dealing with bail or insurance conditionalities, several ahead incomes, the security requested, as we know, in a new lease contract is simply impossible, is a brutal increase of extraordinary expenditure that does not result from the payment of fixed income. And this is the context, which is not so different from March, which calls on us to take measures to protect tenants. All the more we know that about 700 000 aggregates hold leases and are normally the most fragile, precarious and young social strata that rent a house or a room in the private market, because they do not have easy access to credit or because they do not even have their own property. at this moment, they may not even have their own income. Access to housing was already in itself a crisis, which now worsens in the food of the voracity of this virus, which he himself feeds on the lack of conditions for the protection of each one of us and all of us as a whole. It is further aggravated by the sinking that represents the lack of employment. We already know that if we want to fight the pandemic, we have to bet on health and on a robust National Health Service. But do not be mistaken: we also have to ensure decent housing, minimum living conditions and do not allow high expenses to be incurred by families that cannot cope with, despite the problem that they now have of income. There are a lot of people, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that depends on the network that we are all and all of us. We can't let go of our hands. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u70	I now give the floor to Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The COVID-19 epidemic has aggravated the situation of housing rent, contributing to greater unemployment and giving rise to 2177 requests for loans at the Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation for the payment of housing income. On the other hand, the dramatic situation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as clubs and collectives of the popular associative movement, has raised identical concerns regarding non-residential lease. in this period, thousands of workers were fired, because the mechanisms to allow discarding workers, either at the end of six months of the experimental period, either by non-renewal of contracts, either by collective redundancies, or by false green receipts, already existed—just act them! Hundreds of thousands have seen their wages reduced, especially those in layoff. Many thousands have been attacked their rights to vacation, to stable hours, to variable components of remuneration, such as meal subsidies, revealing the imbalances in work relations that have now worsened. Micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs were forced to suspend their business and saw their activities in question and the long-lasting effects that they feel today stem not from the epidemic but from the reduction of purchasing power. But this was also the time to aggravate many other problems. As the Lisbon Residents' Association has, in due course, warned, the number of people who applied for a loan is clearly small considering the total number of leases, and only 2100 people have made the corresponding request and only half have been considered out of the more than 735 000 existing contracts. Law No 1 -A / 2020 of 19 March establishing exceptional and temporary measures to respond to the epidemiological situation caused by the coronavirus SARS-CoV-2 and COVID-19, defined the extraordinary and transitional scheme for the protection of tenants, suspending the production of effects either of complaints of lease contracts or of their expiry, revocation or opposition to the renewal by the landlord. However, this suspension, which is in force, ends on the 30th of this month and, in view of the evolution of the economic and social situation, with the bulk of the problems we have just mentioned, it is essential that this measure of protection for tenants should not be abandoned and extinguished. The CFP proposes that this regime be maintained until the end of 2021. On the other hand, the Supplementary Budget, in force until the end of the year, ensures that the funds intended for the financial support of IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabitação Urbana) are paid off. This appropriation is intended to support interested parties who meet the requirements set out in Law No 4 - C / 2020, as regulated by Ordinance No 91 / 2020 of 14 April. The possibility of submission of applications in this process ended on 1 September and has been public knowledge and information of the lack of knowledge of this right, either the situation of manifest difficulties of many tenants in paying rents of own and permanent housing houses. There is therefore an urgent need to open a new deadline for the submission of applications in the same way, in order to respond to the problems felt by the people. It is intended to ensure that the application for financial support does not have any obstacle. This is the meaning of the present CFP initiative, in which we propose that this be possible by the end of the year. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the problems in this area are far from being overcome: for many families, micro and small businesses or associations it is not even possible to say that the worst has already happened. The CFP defends, from the outset, as you know. Members, who go further in the solutions to be applied, but it is essential that at least the response measures that are in force do not disappear this month. They must have continuity and not only by the end of this year. This House must decide and respond fairly and rapidly to this serious situation that is making itself feel all over the country. That is the meaning of the proposal of the Portuguese Communist Party. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u72	Mr Inês de Sousa Real, from the PAN Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the first hour that the NAP has stated that COVID-19, more than a health crisis, brought with it an unprecedented social and economic crisis and that no one could in fact be left behind. We have made proposals to ensure this, but unfortunately it has not always been possible to achieve this because of some negative majority who have sometimes formed here or because of the lack of openness by the Government and the Socialist Party. Today, we are discussing the extension of the temporary scope of the tenant protection measures and the extension, by the end of the year, of the time limit for applications for loans to IHRU by landlords and tenants. The NAP could no longer agree with these proposals, since in the various moments when this issue was discussed here we always defend that, in view of the unpredictability of the health crisis and its consequences, the most appropriate thing was not to provide for strict deadlines for the implementation of these protection measures and to ensure that they could be applied while maintaining the health crisis and in the following three months. This is precisely the period of reference for the exceptional measures of public procurement which should also be the reference period for protection measures in the field of housing. That is also what the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) recommends to us about the social support created in the current context. Therefore, in the specialty, the NAP will insist on this proposal, at least with regard to the deadlines for requests for loans to IHRU, since an increase in the social crisis is expected in the coming months and the budgetary allocation of such support is unfortunately far from being exhausted. But today, the NAP can only point out two problems that exist with regard to these borrowing applications and that the Government and the IRHU have to resolve as soon as possible. The first relates to the very small number of requests. Until the end of August, only a little more than 2000 requests were made, which clearly does not mirror the reality of the country and the needs of the citizens in the current framework. It seems very clear to us that the Government and the IHRU should make a greater effort to advertise this important measure, and from here we make this appeal, in the event, above all, of the projects presented today, they are approved. The second problem relates to an excessive requirement in the analysis of the application criteria, patent in the lead of more than half of the applications made, and a delay in processing the payment of the support after its approval. In addition, the NAP has questioned Minister Pedro Nuno Santos for more than a month and is waiting for a response to cases of people who have seen their support approved in June and who have only seen him prosecuted at the end of August. We are talking about emergency support, which is why it is not acceptable for three months to be processed and, less so, that was not the objective we had when we adopted this measure. We therefore state here that it is urgent for the Government to ensure that the law on the role becomes effective in practice and that bureaucracies, so common in Portugal, do not attract citizens to even more complicated situations than those in which they are already present. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u74	Mr Hugo Costa, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current pandemic situation of the COVID-19 changed routines, social dynamics and placed existing inequalities in greater evidence. It is the responsibility of the Assembly of the Republic to debate measures and solutions aimed at protecting those in situations that we may consider to be more difficult. Unemployment, loss of income and economic and social consequences on a wide range of people and activities that have been stopped, particularly during the period of confinement, cannot and should not be ignored. The moment of emergency and the protection of public health forced difficult decisions and responses from public authorities. If, in employment, measures such as the simplified layoff had a large scope, housing also had an impact on the suspension of layoffs, the suspension of lease contracts and the execution of mortgages on buildings that constitute the renters' own and permanent housing. thus, one of the rights, among many, that it was possible to safeguard in this period was the right to housing. in the first phase of confinement, given the risk of public health, it became necessary to ensure, urgently, the conditions of domestic confinement necessary for the protection of their families and the containment of the contagation chains. It was also necessary to safeguard the rights of tenants in the face of the risk of non-fulfillment of leases resulting from the breakdown of income suffered due to the paralysis of activities during the confinement phase. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, housing is considered a fundamental right provided for in Article 65 of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. , and is the basis for other rights such as health, employment or education. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and the Government are strongly committed to public housing policies that are fair and equitable. In terms of public policies, in the area of housing, the old belief of Adam Smith's "invisible hand", in which the market would resolve all its difficulties with its balance, had great application in the housing market in Portugal and failed heavily. This belief made it possible for only 2 % of our housing in Portugal to be public, contrary to most European countries, with values at home of 10 %. In recent years, on proposals from the Government and Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, there has been a wager in housing with programmes such as 1. the law, as well as the successive strengthening of funds in the State budget. It is recalled that, in the last State budget, on a proposal from the Socialist Party, the transitional period of old incomes has been extended, affecting, in particular, the older and the more accurate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the COVID-19 pandemic has put new difficulties and, therefore, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that the projects under discussion today are going towards what is socially right and fair. In our view, however, they need to be worked in the field of expertise. On the lease market, we believe that the fact that the planned suspensions end at the end of this month can lead to social consequences that cannot be ignored, and we agree with the extension of the deadline by the end of the year. We took advantage of the fact that the previous deadline had already been extended on a proposal from the Government. We stress, however, that this solution must be done fairly and in such a way that it does not harm the owners and, at the same time, we are not actually supporting those who do not need it. It would be unfair. In other words, the measures are fair whenever there is an effective fulfilment by owners and landlords and by tenants of all their contractual obligations. thus, in the field of specialty, we have an opening to make proposals that go in this direction, that of equity. With regard to the proposal of the Portuguese Communist Party to extend the deadline for applications for IRHU support, it seems important to us that we are aware of the limited implementation of the support and the need to ensure effective information. Finally, I would like to assure you that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will continue to follow this issue of lease, with all due attention, dedication and care that it deserves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u76	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The country's pandemic situation has worsened several sectors of our economy. The pandemic brought more unemployment, less income for families, more unprotected families, more housing vulnerability, more poverty. This context raises a relevant issue, the protection of tenants. And here's a huge difference between what's left and left-wing solutions and right-wing solutions. The left would want owners and landlords to ensure the protection of tenants and tenants, the right feels that it must be the State to bear that same responsibility. And here we should ask a question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: were the owners, the gentlemen who brought unemployment? Did they bring poverty? Did they bring the pandemic? No, they didn't. It is therefore up to the State to protect, with its means, those who have housing vulnerability. Owners and landlords do not have to do what is the social action that is the responsibility of the State. We had years, we had decades in which owners and landlords had to do this social action through the freezing of income when it didn't fit you. We all know that this economic and social context will get worse. in this pandemic, the landlords have already lost much income and these landlords and those owners cannot be demanded any more. The left block bill applies to all lease contracts and does not take into account a requirement, a fundamental criterion, which is the condition of resources, that is, it should apply to those who need it most. I repeat, this bill applies to all leases. Therefore, the bill of the Left Block is harmful to private property, protects the owners and tries to solve one problem by creating another. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u78	For an intervention, Mr André Ventura, of the Arrival, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal that has been brought to us today shows two things, those that have a deep ignorance of social reality and those who want, above all, to destroy the market. What we have here today is a set of proposals that completely disprotects owners, private property and landlords. It makes them almost as criminals, in a state where they always have to bear more taxes, and now it also makes them the guarantors of social action. Portugal is the country of Europe with more taxation on landlords and property and, in terms of comparison with the OECD, where property taxes are most supported. And what brings us here today is a project for these families, who also pay taxes, because they are Portuguese like us, to be now responsible for the crisis we live in. It is like those who always criticize the speech of hatred, but when the time comes to take responsibility, they say that it is the evils of the owners and lords who have to ensure the costs of all of us here and of them too. It has always been this way, and it must always be that way.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u80	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u81	I shall conclude, Mr. President. The PCP project goes further: it says that by the end of next year the landlords will be completely tied up. It is the same as saying « if the market is destroyed, we will continue to work here».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u82	For an intervention, Mrs Marcia Passos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block and the PCP bring the discussion to this plenary proposals for amendment to the extraordinary and transitional scheme for the protection of tenants. In particular, we are talking about the special regime, which, because of the COVID-19 pandemic, has justified legislation, suspending the effects of termination of lease contracts by 30 September 2020. We mustn't forget, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with lease contracts which, in most cases, have already ended for one reason or another, but have already ended. We are talking about situations in which, as a result of the pandemic, combined with the social and economic crisis caused by that, the time-limit for the delivery of the property to its owners has been extended. So a tenant who should have delivered the house to the landlord, because the contract has ended — it is worth not forgetting! — for example, on 30 May 2020, it was possible to deliver only on 30 September 2020, thus benefiting, in this concrete example, more than four months to look for another house,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u84	Find another house? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u85	... seeks that, of course, you should have already started before the contract ends. But we must also not forget that we are, or we may be, in situations where the tenants, despite having the possibility of handing over the property to the landlords, not just by comfort, covered by this exceptional regime. Some of them, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, they do not even pay the rent, but they continue, because they also benefit from this exceptional regime, waiting for the date of 30 September, thus damaging the landlord. On the one hand, there are tenants who do not pay due rents, on the other hand, there are landlords who are abroad waiting for the house to be handed over to Portugal to live in their own home. Now, to extend, by itself, the time limit for the delivery of buildings, only because we still live in a pandemic situation, as the diplomas presented by the Left Block and the PCP, without finding safeguard mechanisms for those who have the right to receive their incomes and, in addition to not receiving them, still have to continue to give housing to the tenants infringingers, it seems to us that we want to go too far. So, if we think that the CFP proposal intends to implement such a regime until December 31, 2021, it seems completely unjustifiable to us. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, why December 31, 2021?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u86	Because there's no December 32!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u87	in this case, even dare ask: why not 2022 or 2023? It makes no sense such a proposal, unless the same conceals the ambition of the CFP, which is the replacement of the functions of the State using, for that, the owners, which, of course, we reject. Just like we repudiated, ladies and gentlemen. Members, benefit those who do not fulfil their obligations, such as the payment of income, such as the lack of payment by the State to their suppliers—the positions of these we reject and we will always repudiate. We are, as we have been demonstrating, fully available for, in the discussion in the specialty, finding solutions, eventually agreeing to extend the delivery time of the buildings, but provided that they are solutions of common sense and balance. As we have said, Mr. Members always rely on the PSD for this. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u88	For a second speech, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: While some continue on the same crusade as ever, when they take themselves as representatives and defenders of real estate funds, we see the political hypocrisy of those who have led the proposals of the CFP that protect the lords in a fair manner with the compensation of the State. Nor did you want that! They fill their mouths with social justice and then talk about tenants as if they were criminals. And they speak of 2021 as if it were the year of grace, in which everything will be in the peace of the angels. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't believe in your own words! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member João Gonçalves Pereira.]] The PCP is available, yes, for work in the specialty—it has always been!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u90	It has complexes with private property!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u91	We continued where we were, with the proposal to extend the regime until 2021, and therefore we did not follow the retreat that BE had in replacing its proposal from 2021 to 2020. We do not compromise with time losses or maneuvers from those who want to continue to defend the same interests of the custom. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u92	For the last speech of the debate, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of BE has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We had, and we have, a concrete problem and a crisis in the housing to which the market has not responded and to which the PSD and the CDS have come to intensify with the amendments they have made to the legislation of the lease, without having before the answer that so much they ask the state to ensure now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u94	That's not true! It's not serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u95	It's true! A state response is required, but it is not in anyone's drawer. The answer that can be guaranteed is not for the loss of income, it is not for the freezing of income, it is for the maintenance of contracts with conditions equal to the previous ones, and it must be guaranteed only for another three months. We're talking about an increase in the pandemic, a period of health crisis,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u96	It's a wretch!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u97	... where a protection response is required to people. The market did not guarantee the fight against the pandemic in health, but it did not guarantee it in the housing, when, despite the evictions being suspended, it contracted private security illegally to clear people from buildings that were empty for more than two years and that continue to be protected by golden visas, outside any democratic state that we have. And we also know that this crisis has caused a problem with the search for a home. I'd like to ask Mrs Marcia Steps how we look for a home if we can't get out of her. That is a question I really wanted to be able to answer: how do we look for a house without leaving it? How do we rent a house if we don't have income? And what about bails and extra rents? How do we do that?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u98	Occupy, barricade!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u99	I'd like you to answer me, Mrs. Márcia Passos, even because I'd like to see how you would rent a house. Well, if the common sense and balance of the PSD are to send people to the streets in a situation of pandemic crisis, in a situation of loss of income, it seems to me that 'balance' and 'good sense' are no longer part of the dictionary on the right. for our part, we are here to give answers and maintain the balance and good sense, so necessary to ensure that all people are protected in their right to housing, which is essential at this time of pandemic crisis, and to health. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u100	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the third item on our agenda. The fourth point is followed, which consists of the assessment of the Resolution Project No 471 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends that the Government reverse the alienation of the New Bank, its transfer to the public sphere and specialized support to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and, in general, to the Bill No 499 / XIV / 1. a ( IL) — condition the exercise of the conversion rights by the State of credits in capital of the New Bank to its prior approval by the Assembly of the Republic. To open the debate, Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last May, the government transferred more than EUR 850 million to the New Bank, without the pandemic and all the challenges that we face have made it even blinking. at that time, the PCP presented the draft resolution that we now discussed, which puts on the table the beginning of the public control recovery process on the New Bank, a condition necessary to end this genuine national scandal that is the state paying the cleaning account of a bank, but ultimately the bank is not ours, nor is it placed at the service of the economy and the country. From May to now, what we know about the New Bank only gives more strength to the PCP arguments. We had hearings yesterday and yesterday with Dr. António Ramalho, President of the Board of Directors of the New Bank, and with Dr. Maximo dos Santos, President of the Resolution Fund. We have left these hearings without knowing who they are, after all, the final beneficiaries of the sales of assets that have raised legitimate suspicions about the suitability of buyers and their links to Lone Star itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u103	Dr. António Ramalho, who guaranteed in a statement that he knows who all the last beneficiaries are and who was unworthy of those who made assumptions about the enforcement of the law, was unable to clarify the Assembly of the Republic about whom they are, after all, those beneficiaries. We are talking about business such as the sale of the GNB Life insurer, which represented losses of more than 380 million euros to the public record, or of real estate, sold to a fraction of the value to which they were recorded in the balance sheet, with losses of millions of euros. But we can also look at the credit restructurings, the refinancings to assets that were already giving problems, decisions already taken by the current administration and that have moved forward, despite the risk analysis of the New Bank itself to discourage these businesses. The audit leaves much to be examined, from the point of view of the New Bank's impartiality policy, but points out several examples of failures in the control mechanisms, contrary to the idea that control was going to be total, as was said at the time of the privatisation of the bank. All of this has given reason to the CFP, which throughout this process has always defended that public control is a necessary condition to end harmful management, which is always paid by the Portuguese. We defended this option at the time when the PSD/CDS government decided to move forward with a fraudulent resolution process, in which it told the Portuguese that it was possible to solve a bank that had EUR 12 billion in liability in its international holding, with EUR 4.9 billion corresponding to what was left of the troika fund and the Resolution Fund. It was a lie. Today, everyone recognizes that there was no good bank. This division was made only to attempt to delude, with the idea of a resolution without cost. Until Dr. Maximo dos Santos said yesterday at the hearing that «the bad quality of the assets of the New Bank is evident». Everyone knew — the Banco de Portugal knew, the Coelho Pass Government knew — that never in life that division and that cost-free resolution was real.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u105	The Portuguese are still paying for the consequences of this resolution, based on a lie and then aggravated by the decision already of the PS government to privatize the bank at zero cost, delivering it to Lone Star, giving a public guarantee of EUR 3.9 billion. It was also said that privatization, and I quote Prime Minister Antonio Costa, «will not have direct or indirect impact on public accounts, nor new charges on taxpayers ». Well, the truth is that the assets covered by the guarantee were poorly assessed, which allowed the administration to record losses to be the State to pay. The truth is that the limit of EUR 3, EUR 9 billion was not just a theoretical leap, but rather a value that Lone Star did everything from the beginning to use in its entirety and, if possible, exceed. In fact, something else would not be expected from a background with those characteristics. The fact is that, together with the resolution on the guarantees of privatization, the Portuguese have already buried in the New Bank close to EUR 9 billion. Let us be realistic: we have paid for cleaning the bank, we continue to pay for cleaning the bank. And if so, if we are paying for cleaning the bank with public funds, then we cannot admit that in the end, the bank is handed over to any private group, probably to a foreign group, instead of ensuring its public control. That is the opportunity the CFP gives with this draft resolution, that is, the opportunity of the Assembly of the Republic to give a signal to the Government that there is political will so that, since we pay it, the bank will be placed in the public sphere. If there is such political will, there can be many ways to ensure that public control and to place the bank at the service of financing the national economy and the country, particularly important at the time we live. This is the choice of a State that respects the PCP's position on the table with this initiative. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u106	To present the draft law of the Liberal Initiative, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The draft resolution that the CFP brings to us reminds me of that saying 'for those who only have a hammer, all the problems seem to you to be begging'! I know that the PCP has hammers and scissors, but still, all the problems seem to you to be nails.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u108	Look, you don't want to end up in the place of the nail!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u109	For the PCP, if there is anything to solve, the solution is always the same :nationalize ; if there is something to improve, some service or some regime, the solution is always the same: more state and only state. And if the matter gets banking, then all the Marxist-Leninist rage, I don't know if you're still Stalinist, comes to the top and "how the bank is the heart of capitalism, you have to rip off the beast's heart! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I'm sorry to say that, but the PCP has a very short memory, because the bank in Portugal between 1975 and 1985 was all public, it was all nationalized...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u110	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u111	...and the results were catastrophic! We are still paying for the decapitalisation of the bank and the economy at that time. The Liberal Initiative does not have this type of obsession nor is it attached to this type of past, it does not need that to survive, and therefore comes here presenting a bill that aims to prevent the possibility of the State from participating directly in the capital of the New Bank, without discussion and through silence. In Law No 61 / 2004, which we intend to come here to amend, the State attaches itself to credit conversion rights in relation to, for example, inequalities. The New Bank had the need to use this alternative, because otherwise it would not meet the ratios. And this led him to create inequalities that would have been much lower if the State had fulfilled its role of regulation and supervision — this must be said — and it has just generated a special reserve, it itself is superior to the inequalities created, which gives the State today the possibility of becoming a shareholder, with 13 % of the bank. The Liberal Initiative wants this possible decision to convert credits to capital to pass through the Assembly of the Republic. More: whether the six-monthly reports that this law provides for, Law No. 61 / 2004 must contain the declaration of intention of what the State wants to do with these money.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u112	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u113	I shall conclude, Mr President. It was no longer enough the annual bleeding we have through the Resolution Fund, now we had the State to participate directly in the future losses of the New Bank. That's all I needed! I leave this requirement of wickedness: the Minister of Finance who approved the magnificent negotiation that causes the Resolution Fund to be diluted, but that Lone Star is not diluted in case of conversion, is the same Governor of the Banco de Portugal who cannot now protect the interests of the Resolution Fund. And this makes sense to the Liberal Initiative when it drew attention to the enormous conflicts of interest in this appointment of the Governor of Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u114	Your intervention left a tear of emotion in Salgado's eye!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u115	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The decisions of several governments to privatize the financial sector was an excellent business to fatten the fortunes of a few, but represented large losses accumulated for the state and for Portuguese families. Let us quickly read the results of these privatisations: millionaire transfers of money from the productive sector to financial speculation; channeling money from depositors to the transfer of credits to the companies of the banking groups themselves, often without any guarantee of return; and, finally, distribution of large sums in dividends by their shareholders. So we're talking about a lot of money. It is a lot of millions that needed our economy and that no one knows where they stand today. We don't know where they stand, but we know they're not where they need them, that is, in the productive sector. And the Greens believe it is time to interrupt the field of financial speculation. It is time to direct resources to our economy, to our production, to create wealth and jobs. It is bank time to stop being an activity that only serves to fatten the profits of a few to become at the service of the country and its development. It is precisely in this context that the problem of the New Bank must be addressed. And, without wishing to bring to the discussion the responsibilities of the PSD/CDS government in this process, which are, in fact, many, as we know, it is important to remember, however, that the problem of the New Bank was not born now, was born with the Government of Steps Coelho and Paulo Portas, who separated the BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) bad from the BES good, when it was realized that, after all, there was no good bank. In other words, the PSD/CDS government has created a problem, but it has not resolved it, and every day it passes, we realize that, after all, the so-called "clean output" is becoming more and more polluted. In fact, we all remember the words of the then Minister of Finance, Maria Luís Albuquerque, when, in 2015, guarantees the world that there would be no cost to the taxpayer. Well, what's true is that taxpayers are already tired of paying for the bankers' adventures and irresponsibilities, but also the wrong government options. It is therefore necessary to put an end to this gross immorality and to this amazing injustice. The state can't stand private business, since we're talking about taxpayers' money. Therefore, we believe that this paradigm shift should start with the New Bank and start with the solution that less burden the taxpayers and better serve the interests of the country. This should be the solution to be adopted in the case of the New Bank, but for this it is necessary for the State to take account of the New Bank. The New Bank must remain in the hands of the State so that the State can place it at the service of the development of the country and of our economy, at the service of the interests of the Portuguese, at the service of the interests of our country. If the State pays, the New Bank must be in the hands of the State, in the hands of the payer. If the State pays the hammer and pays the nail, the tool must be in the hands of the State. [[Congrats from the CFP.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Fernando Negrão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u117	Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this discussion that we are having for the 100th time about the nationalization of the bank in Portugal, I would begin by saying that the PCP project could be called "the worse the amendment than the sonnet". In fact, when we look at the New Bank situation, we think it could not be worse, but if we follow the CFP project, it could be much worse, and I explain why. The CFP project proposes to nationalize the New Bank, but I would like to recall that there has already been, as a solution to a bank that failed, BPN, the solution of nationalisation and the account we paid for this was almost EUR 5000 million, by a bank that is about a tenth of what was BES. So if we move this account to the New Bank, it means that instead of EUR 9 billion we would have to pay around EUR 40 000 or EUR 50 billion. That is, this project thinks that the Portuguese paid little and, therefore, we're going to multiply by three or four accounts that goes to the taxpayers, which is for the PCP gentlemen, who are full of will to manage banks, have a bank to manage. You don't get to Box, you need another one! Secondly, since we are talking about fraudulent resolutions — I have heard Mr Green talk about immorality — let us remember a few things.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u119	Some immorality!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u120	They said it was privatized at zero cost. Unfortunately, it was not privatized at zero cost, it was privatized with an account that was a guarantee of EUR 3900 million, which is now appearing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u121	It's immoral!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u122	And it was indeed by the Government of Antonio Costa. Only it was not only by the Government of Antonio Costa, it was by the Government of the PCP, the Government of the Left Block and the Government of the ENP. You made it possible when you signed a little document there hidden in a cabinet. And the taxpayers' money, which has since been there, has been with the budgets that you voted for. Therefore, if the PCP, rather than recalling that it wanted to vote against the Budgets after having some election results, if it had remembered at that time, never a toss would have stopped there. [[PCP protests.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when they speak of 'frauding' and 'immorality', I can only advise them to buy mirrors and observe them in your premises.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u123	Did you talk about election results? Are you sure? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u124	He needs a mirror!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u125	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The point is that we have managed to distribute the responsibilities in two essential moments in New Bank matters. The PSD / CDS government and Banco de Portugal lie to the Portuguese, when they said in 2014 that the New Bank was clean, and today we know that. You're lying! The Banco de Portugal was able to know that the bank was not clean. You can't promise something that won't be fulfilled. in the same way, the Government of Antonio Costa again lied to the Portuguese, when it said that the sale would have no costs, neither direct nor indirect, and that the guarantee would not be used. Both governments have done the same! And they did so because none of these governments wanted to assume the political costs of more injections into the New Bank. It has political costs to tell people that a bank has failed, that it has costs and that the state needs to put money there. And no government wanted to assume this clearly, before the taxpayers, in front of the people who were watching the beautiful spectacle of the bankruptcy of Banco Espírito Santo. And for that reason too, because no one wanted to take the costs, the fiction of the Resolution Fund was created: a fund that would, after all, be paid by the bank and not by the State, although it is financed by the State ; that would come out of the banks and not from the State, but into deficit ; that, when Passos Coelho said it was from the banks, Antonio Costa said it was from the State ; that, when António Costa says it is from the State, the PSD says it is from the banks, and vice versa. Therefore, this fund is serving all discourses, according to the moment we live. But the lack of transparency on the New Bank had other consequences than just to deceive people and not to be frontal to them. It is because the lack of transparency led the debate on the alternatives, because when the Minister of Finance Mário Centeno from the Government's rostrum, he promised us that the sale to Lone Star was the best solution and at which he had less costs, there was an alternative on the table, which was that of maintaining in the public sphere. Mário Centeno promised it was the best solution, because he minimized the losses, but he made this promise based on a statement that was false, which was the claim that the guarantee would not be used. That is why the debate must be transparent, so that we can choose the best alternatives, with all the information. Today we know that the costs of the New Bank have not been stopped with the sale to Lone Star and we can discuss if there were any alternatives. The maintenance of the bank in the public sphere would have costs, of course it would have costs, but it would have an advantage: the bank was in the hands of the State. The sale has costs and has a disadvantage: the state paid a clean bank to Lone Star and now it doesn't control it, and this is a cost. On the issue of the New Bank, the Block always had one position: before the bank was sold, we presented a project for the bank to be kept in the public sphere. This option did not have a majority because it did not have PSD and PS support, which had no alternative for sale. After the sale, we again proposed that the bank should move into the public sphere, but it was not approved. After that project we again proposed in the Budget that injections to the New Bank should be stopped without an assessment and a vote by the Assembly of the Republic. This proposal was plunged by the PS, with the support of the PSD. Therefore, it is not true that parties have not had any initiatives to present alternatives or to prevent new injections into the New Bank. There have been parties that have never, never abdicated from this debate and I belong to one of them, because I have made these debates and presented these proposals often here in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u128	Today, we have the result of decisions that have been made consciously by the PS, with the support of the PSD : there is a ruinous contract of sale, repeat, ruinous, there is a predatory management of the Lone Star and there are suspicions of fraud in the management of the contract with the State. And so there is only one thing to do: to investigate these suspicions, independently and in defense of the public interest, to denounce this contract and regain control of the New Bank. As for the Members here who so often fill their mouths...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u129	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to the time spent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u130	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, as far as the Members here are concerned who fill their mouths so often to speak of ideological dogmatism—as if the Liberal Initiative Member or PSD, the CDS and PS did not have an ideology, they did not defend an ideology in this matter—what kind of ideological dogmatism is that which keeps them insisting on a sale, when it is in front of the eyes that this sale was ruinous and that maintaining in the public sphere was a better option? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u131	It was!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u132	What kind of dogmatism is it that prevents you from seeing the options that best defend the interest of the state? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u133	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u134	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we will support the two projects that are on the table. Finally, I leave a greeting to the workers of the New Bank, because I think they deserve and have no responsibility for what the administrations have done. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u135	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The New Bank has cost too much money to taxpayers and has damaged the public interest with a lack of smell that we have rarely seen. In recent years, Lone Star has done whatever it wants, with a management of authentic abutre, focused on injury and always with eyes on public money injections. Banco de Portugal and Fondo de Resolção are helpless and the Government of the Socialist Party, without thinking twice, passes blank checks of injections of many million. In the peak of the real estate crisis, Lone Star sells a portfolio of buildings called « Viriato », with a loss of EUR 159 million, in an operation sponsored by Alantra, whose leader was a high-ranking leader of Ricardo Salgado and former member of the PSD / CDS government. Bank of Portugal and Resolution Fund did nothing and the government just passed the check. We had even the Socialist Party saying — just imagine! — by the voice of John Paul Correia, that the buildings had been sold at the market price and that it was wrong to speak for sale to the wreckage. Curiously like now, that "we cry on poured milk", we see the Socialist Party changing its position. But it's worth more late than ever, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! What matters most now is whether, in the face of these abuses of the New Bank, we will see new injections of public money next year and, worse, if we will see a scenario in which the New Bank will receive an even greater injection than the one provided for in the sales agreements. But these agreements have more problems, beyond the forecast of transfers of public money. One of them is the fact that it is determined that in 2021, the State may become the holder of more than half of the resolution fund's shares in the New Bank. That is, Lone Star will lose nothing and the state will be even more committed. For the NAP, the State cannot continue to be the SOS of the losses of the bank... [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] ... and the path cannot be to nationalisation or strengthening public participation in the New Bank, as proposed by the CFP. The New Bank is a toxic asset and at this time nationalizes it does not serve the public interest. The time is to punch the table and close the tap to the New Bank. More than ever, it is necessary to renegotiate the New Bank sales agreements in order to ensure not only that there will be no more public injections during the health crisis, but also that we will not have the State to be a bank shareholder in 2021 and that harmful operations of the public interest, such as those that occurred in recent years, will not continue to exist. In addition, at the headquarters of Supplementary Budget, the NAP made this proposal, but was plunged by PS, PSD, PCP and CDS. A final note to say that we agree with the proposal to strengthen Parliament's powers, presented by the Liberal Initiative. However, it would be good if, as in the State Budget, on a proposal from the NAP, this assessment was not purely political, such as the Liberal Initiative, but was also accompanied by an independent technical evaluation of the Council of Public Finance and UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budgetary Support ). [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u137	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Ventura, of the Arrival.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have to start by saying that this New Bank is a great joke, because we should never, in fact, have had, as we had, appointments of individuals who, as you already knew or should know, would have an enviable curriculum in the United States, condemned for fraud and corruption. And, as we also know, appointments were allowed in the New Bank which today embarrassed any state of democratic law. But, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, there are not only two moments of responsibility, there are three or four, in fact, because, in addition to these two moments that you have mentioned, we remember another one, in which Mrs Catarina Martins signed an agreement with Dr. António Costa, here in this institution. And that agreement generated millions for the New Bank. It was the third time that the honourable Member had forgotten. But there was another one, Mrs. Member: the moment when the NAP tried to prevent the appointment of Mário Centeno to Banco de Portugal, through a legislative initiative, and the Block of Left said it would not, but it would not oppose or hasten the legislative initiative, knowing today that Mário Centeno is the great defender of the New Bank in the institution where it is.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u139	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the time spent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u140	I will finish, Mr. President. So there are no two moments of responsibility, there are three or four. Even at the end of the day, Mr President, I am tired of hearing about nationalizations. For the PCP it is the only solution that exists in Portugal : nationalizations!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u141	When we pay! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u142	If we search the Internet for PCP and nationalizations — to such an Internet that works well in Cuba — thousands of news appear. It is the only solution they have: nationalize, nationalize, nationalize!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u143	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u144	We're here to pay, as always!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u145	We've paid! That's the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u146	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The relevance of the New Bank to the Portuguese economy is unquestionable, either at the level of depositors or at the level of its participation in the financing of the Portuguese economy and companies. And, therefore, all that happens to the New Bank is something that should deserve our best attention. But you need to think it over. The problems in the New Bank have a first responsibility: the management that happened at BES and that is why it is a police case. And we're not going to confuse things—never! — even if there is one who is more interested in accusing political forces than those who are the real cause of the problem. Secondly, it should also be pointed out that this Parliament has examined in a very exemplary way, in a committee of inquiry, addressed by President Fernando Negrão, the whole issue that culminated in the resolution. And the report that this committee of inquiry has produced advances the following: it may not have been the perfect solution, but it was the possible solution, I repeat, the possible solution at that tragic end of August. It should be recalled that this report was adopted by a large majority in this Parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u148	With the vote against the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u149	...including the Left Block. But we need to see what happened after that, because doubts persist and there are things that must be clarified. For example, some people say: "On that weekend, the Banco de Portugal should have had the ability to assess all assets and to proceed with exemplary separation; within 48 hours, it should have done so and, if it did not, failed." That's what some say. In theory, this may be true, but humanly, we know that within 48 hours it would be impossible to make the exemplary separation of assets that we would all like it to have happened. Then we can take the next step and then move on to the moment of alienation. Did you continue to doubt whether or not toxic assets existed? For the next two years, was there no capacity to do what could not be done in 48 hours? There!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u150	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u151	And it was because there was such a guarantee. It is that value of 3, 9 billion did not appear by miracle, it was not an air currency that fell in 3, 9, as if playing in the casino. Don't! These calculations were made and identified. So there, yes, there was a very clear mistake, assumed to all Portuguese. Finally, we are left with this question: was it only the Banco de Portugal? And, this week, what did Dr. Maximo dos Santos, Vice-Governor of Banco de Portugal and responsible for the Resolution Fund say? He came to say that the entire alienation process was dealt with by the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u153	Therefore, Dr. Mário Centeno cannot say that he was unaware of the existence of toxic assets, worth 3, 9 billion, at the time of such alienation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u154	But there's more! Dr. Maximo dos Santos also told us that there is a restructuring plan that was negotiated with the European Commission and that this restructuring plan ends in 2021. And why has it not been attempted to extend the date of this restructuring plan? What initiatives have been developed? When the economy is plunged into a crisis, all deadlines are left to remain the same, knowing perfectly well that those who sell in a hurry sell cheap and with potential losses. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, there is much to be done, but that does not mean that this debate makes sense. It makes no sense, because if we are all imbued with the same spirit of establishing responsibilities and knowing the truth, this debate will take place from tomorrow to eight days, when the drafts relating to the committee of inquiry are voted on. But the enthusiasm of some agents is greater, because they have the greatest ego in the world and they wanted to anticipate this debate, bringing it to this House today. With that, show what? They show that, even before the work starts, they already have the conclusions made, they already know what they want, they already know what the total conclusion is. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u155	Right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u156	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u157	I will finish, Mr. President. The solution they propose is nationalization, as always, thinking that they still live before 1989, in the RDA ( German Democratic Republic ). Luckily, the world is another. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u158	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, it is true that we are in advance of a debate which is scheduled for next week, when we have to discuss the proposals for committee of inquiry. However, I also recognize that, because of the importance of the subject, there is no need to be afraid or to cast moments for its discussion. On the other hand, if you hear some speeches, there is a reflection which, of course, is put to me: some people want to nationalize; others don't want to see the state in any way; and others don't know what they want, because they don't want to nationalize, but they don't have solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u160	That's the case with the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u161	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think there has to be an adult in the Chamber who puts some responsibility in the Portuguese financial system so that we can move forward with some concrete issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u162	It's Mr. Fernando Anastacio!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u163	It is that speeches, unresolved and unresolved, are very easy to do. Mr Duarte Alves, I recognise you as being consistent and I recognize the conviction of your proposals. In fact, the Portuguese Communist Party has long defended this solution, but conviction and coherence are certainly not synonymous with reason.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u164	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u165	In fact, it can be coherent, but there is a solution that is not, firstly, proven to be less costly for taxpayers, and that is an important issue. A challenge facing the Portuguese Communist Party is also to tell the Portuguese how much it would cost the Nationalization of the New Bank. It was important to know what the damage would be or what would be the benefits of that solution. The Portuguese Communist Party defends nationalization, but does not give that answer. Mrs Mariana Mortágua defends, and has argued that she has sometimes argued that she should remain in the public sphere, but in her analysis she has omitted the impossibility of this matter and that it has to do with the rules of the Directorate-General for Competition and the obligation of that bank to be sold or liquidated. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Well, it is not worth proposing a solution that we know is not feasible. That's, once again, we'll be in the middle of the bridge. With regard to the Social Democratic Party... In addition, with regard to the Liberal Initiative...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u166	Coherence!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u167	My dear Mr Cotrim de Figueiredo, usually with some perception that your projects will very difficultly have some support and responsibility at the level of executive decisions in the future, what do you do? It brings to the parliamentary debate and to the decisions of the Assembly of the Republic which is strictly of executive competence, confusing the debates. However, the 40 years of our democracy have shown that the structure of our legal-constitutional system, with the difference between legislative power and executive power, is very well delivered and stable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why it is not worth confusing us, bringing here questions when, in essence, what we want is to call into question a system that has worked well. [[IL protests.]] Deep down, what do you want with your project? He wants to withdraw a competence which is strictly executive from his decision, but more so, he wants the State to say in advance what it will do, in order to happen what often happens, which is the so-called « sell in a hurry without knowing what will be done». In other words, it is precisely the opposite of the desired results.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u168	I don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u169	With regard to Mr Duarte Pacheco's intervention, I agree with some of the issues he has said, and in fact, the problem in the management of BES. It's not worth running away from that. The management of BES is a police case and we're going to assume that's it. In addition, Parliament has done a structured work in the BES Management Committee and, soon, it will have the opportunity, of course, to do a work of analysis of aspects that have not been verified at the time, from the time of the resolution to the present. Let us not be afraid of questions. We are going to do this work, but the honourable Member, who has been able to ease the responsibilities of the time of the resolution, has failed to be able to make the same reasoning about the sale. In other words, while in the resolution the Banco de Portugal had no chance... But if it had done a good job, it would not have been on the market, a little while earlier, to stimulate the Portuguese, saying it was healthy to buy BES titles. If I had done the job well before, I wouldn't have said so.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u170	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u171	I will finish now, Mr President. Mr President, what I can tell you is this: we are all sure that, at that time, the then Governor of the Banco de Portugal and the Government of Passos Coelho were probably also given arms. Or are you only now the current Governor of Banco de Portugal and this government? That is, we have two weights and two measures. Finally, the Socialist Party will necessarily vote against any of the projects presented. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u172	Mr Duarte Alves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, we cannot say that we miss what happened here. We are not surprised that the PSD is pushing blame on the PS ; we are not surprised that the PS is pushing blame on the PSD ; neither are we surprised that Mr Ventura defends and whites the positions of the Coelho Pass Government, because at the time he was in his party ; nor are we not surprised that the Liberal Initiative defends the one who is its liberalism, that which the State pays but does not send. [[IL protests.]] That is the liberalism of the Liberal Initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u174	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u175	The various State budgets were also mentioned. See the proposals presented by the CFP, in particular in the State budget for 2020. What did the PCP proposal say? of the two, one : either the State does not put even a penny in the New Bank or, if it does, the process of recovery of public control must begin. Who voted against this proposal? PS, PSD, CDS, Liberal and Arrival Initiative, which ultimately assumed to be in accordance with what is going on, which is a situation in which the State pays but does not send and in which public control is not guaranteed, even though we continue to pay the accounts of that bank,... [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]] ... above all when it is in view of what this administration of the New Bank has been doing, i.e. cleaning up the toxic assets with our money, closing counters—even at the hearing it was confirmed that they will close more counters—and fire workers, also with taxpayers' money. In the end, the «lombe beef», after cleaning up our tax money, will be handed over to any private group. This was the issue that Mr André Silva did not realise either: the toxic assets, we have already paid them or we are paying them.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u176	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u177	What's going to stay in the New Bank to deliver to any foreign private group is the good part, and that's what we can't accept: we get the losses and we don't keep the profits. This is what happened in the cases of BPN and Banif: the losses were public and the profits to the private.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u178	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u179	So we have to start falling into reality. We've paid for the New Bank's accounts and we're still paying for them. Now, if the damage is public, we must ensure that profits are not private and that the same mistake is not repeated of putting the State to pay without control. This is the meaning of the initiative presented by the CFP in this House. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u180	Mrs. Members, we move on to the fifth item on the agenda, with the joint debate of draft resolutions Nos 75 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Recommends that the Government create a family support network and promote study and debate for a family and birth policy, 77 / XIV / 1. a ( CDS-PP ) — Establishment of a possible committee for monitoring initiatives on family and birth, 59 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — By an integrated policy for childhood and family and 255 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of cross-border and integrated measures to support and encourage birth. To present the draft resolutions of the CDS-PP, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Demography is the most serious problem we have in Portugal, it is the most serious structural problem we have in the country, it is the one that conditions the solution of all others, because when we discuss many matters in this House, we know that our demographic evolution greatly conditions the effectiveness of the solutions we have discussed. The two main indicators of this reality are, on the one hand, the decline in births — since the beginning of the century, births in Portugal have decreased 28 % — and, on the other hand, the ageing of the population. With the rise of deaths, which increased by 6 % since the beginning of the century, the consequence is that since then we have an ageing population of 63 %. We can discuss at will the location of the population, whether more on the coast or more on the interior, we can discuss the sustainability solutions for social security, we can discuss the model of the National Health Service, we can discuss the viability of the educational reforms we promote. We can, we must and will discuss these issues all, what we cannot ignore is that, in each of these issues, this demographic development has a negative impact. If we do not reverse this trend, we will not be able to give sustainability to the social model in which we live. Therefore, it is appropriate that over time — and we do not have it in great quantity — we prepare ourselves and we will take the necessary steps to restore a minimally balanced level of birth. It should be said that between 2002 and 2019 births decreased from 1, 55 to 1, 42 births per woman of fertile age. The value for a generational renewal is 2, 1 and we are at 1, 42. That is to say, we are getting older, which is the consequence of increasing the costs of all social systems, and we are becoming less and less able to renew our population from generation to generation. That is why the CDS believes that this should be a substantive discussion, and not just a discussion of isolated measures. We propose two very clear things today. One is to introduce into the social system support for the family to support the decisions on viability and economic management, health management and social management of these family groups. In other words, by not withdrawing autonomy from families, it is to allow such support to provide them with tools to make decisions that help this development of birth and to have the conditions to have children and to renew the population. In the second initiative we propose that this legislation be marked in the Assembly of the Republic by the question of demography. If we can set up the possible committee to discuss this matter, we will be contributing towards the reflection that various parties and various public and private entities have already done in Portugal. Let us create this possible commission so that we can hear everyone who in Portugal has already reflected on this evolution, on the solutions for birth, on the solutions for old age, on the solutions for generational renewal and, above all, on those who have already reflected on the social sustainability of our model, so that we can be more and live better in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u182	To present the PSD draft resolution, Mrs Lina Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All developed countries have a birth problem and all try to solve it, some with more success, others with less. But Portugal is a developed country that has a huge birth problem and is unable to solve it. Families want and wish to have more children, but do not feel secure, do not feel confident, do not feel supported enough to fulfill this desire. Thus, every year, we have older people, because people age and longevity increases, and few children, because parents postpone the decision to extend the family and sometimes even fail to make this decision, which is increasingly important for the country. This reality compromises our future, because it does not allow the renewal of generations, and it compromises the Nation, because it progressively restricts the number of Portuguese at active age, weakening the economy and threatening national balance. Therefore, the PSD views this draft resolution as a national priority, as something that should be assumed as a true design for Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, birth does not increase by decree! The decision to have children is of the personal forum, but it is up to the State to create conditions that favour this decision and allow families to feel protected for the assumption of such great responsibility. Among the developed countries, those who have the highest birth rates are those who invest most in support of the family, parenthood, reconciliation between personal and professional life, child care and child education, and they are also those who transmit security and trust to parents, leading them to meet their desire to have the second child and sometimes even more. This is only possible with long-term policies. To be effective, what has been done in this field cannot be perceived as fleeting, the result of a momentary momentum of demagogic, electoral or populist charism. Measuring the impact of a given policy on birth requires time, so it is impossible, in the short term, to justify its replacement by another, allegedly because it is better or more appropriate. The policies to be defined mobilize different areas: work, companies, social security, finance, education, health and so many others. Therefore, given its cross-sectional nature, it is essential to have the participation and commitment of all citizens and an extended political-party consensus, which goes far beyond one or two legislatures. This presupposes the creation of a space for the broad and conscious debate of the topics concerned, for which the social partners, the institutions of the social economy, the technicians, the specialists and all the citizens concerned should be called. With this resolution, the PSD recommends to the Government, precisely, that it conduct this urgent and recognized debate of national interest. Birth and childhood assume, more than ever, the greatest relevance in Portugal. The PSD considers them a national design. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this plan for an integrated policy for children and the family has not been born now, and the PSD has long placed it in the centrality of its concerns. In 2014, an independent commission was established by the PSD, consisting of personalities from several disciplinary areas, who conducted a study and produced a report called By a Portugal friend of children, families and births ( 2015 - 2035 ). In 2015, a PSD resolution was adopted, together with the CDS, which recommended to the Government measures to strengthen child and family support. In May 2018, a document entitled A policy for childhood was presented by the Social Democratic Party, through its National Strategic Council, entitled A policy for children: A design for Portugal, where a set of measures is presented that enable a new policy for children to be structured. Also in the PSD Election Programme several challenges have been launched, according to the resolution we are presenting. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal faces a serious demographic crisis. We must view this problem as a national cause, as a long-term structural problem and, above all, essential for a society like ours, which was young in my time, in my adolescence, and which ages at large, with implications for the sustainability of the country. Portugal has to face the problem of birth and the family ahead, with realism, and start solving it as the other European countries are doing, because we cannot forget at any time that we are one of the older and less-born countries in Europe. The Portuguese can count on the PSD, which believes that this House will join in this national design. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u184	For the presentation of the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has had a consistent and persistent intervention on the problem of demography and birth. The low birth rate in our country is not fatal, nor are we doomed to this reality. Low birth is, in fact, the result of right-wing policies, which do not give stability, security and conditions to families in order to have the number of children they want. One of the conclusions of the 2013 Fertility Survey was that having children is not for whom you want, it is for whom you can, revealing as well as the lack of economic and social conditions is an obstacle at the time of the decision of the number of children that each family effectively has. The diagnosis of low birth is made. There is no lack of studies that identify precarious links, instability in the workplace, low wages, unemployment, disrespect for labour rights and maternity and paternity rights, high costs with day care, health, education or housing as causes for low births. That is why it is not enough to see reality and to express concern about it. It is necessary to identify the causes and the responsible ones and point to solutions. Families do not need assistance and charitable measures, as the PSD and CDS propose.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u186	Don't propose, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u187	In fact, I remember until the PSD and CDS had great responsibilities in the period when there was the biggest birthbreak in our country. It was a period when instability in the workplace was higher, a period of unemployment, low wages and cuts in social functions. This was, in fact, the reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u188	For God's sake! As if it were going to happen in the short term...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u189	We can do all the debates, but families need cross-sectional and durable solutions that eliminate conditionalisms that determine birthbreak and that bet on solutions that respond to the various factors that affect it. It is important to create conditions for families to decide, freely and consciously, how many children want to have and when and when it is important to ensure dignified living conditions, job stability, wage recovery and access to social rights. The intervention and proposal of the CFP in recent years have meant significant advances such as the extension and strengthening of the family allowance, the freeness of school textbooks throughout compulsory schooling, the integration of vaccines into the National Vaccination Programme, the payment of 100% of the specific risk allowance and the freeness of day care for families in 1. the step, with the perspective of its enlargement to all, progressively. We remember that we need to go further to ensure confidence, security and stability. That is why we bring this debate solutions to this debate solutions to reverse low birth rates: the general increase in wages, in particular the increase in the national minimum wage for €8550 ; the fight against precariousness in the public and private sectors, ensuring an effective link for all workers; the implementation of 35 working hours for all workers; the effective link between working hours and wages, including the general increase in wages, in particular the general increase in the national minimum wage for €8550 €; combating precariousness in the public and private sectors, ensuring an effective link for all workers; the implementation of 35 working hours for all workers; the effective link between professional, family and staff life, ending the deregulation of working hours; strengthening the rights of maternity and paternity and paternitycare; strengthening the right of maternity and paternity and paternity pay to 100 %, including in the free choice of the free choice of parents and youth; strengthening social support for children and youth and youth; strengthening the social security system; strengthening of daycare centres; strengthening of daycare centres; strengthening of daycare centres; strengthening the children and daycare centres; strengthening programmes; strengthening the rights; strengthening the rights; strengthening the rights; strengthening the rights of the rights of the children children and the rights and the rights and the rights of the rights of the rights and the rights and the rights of the rights of the rights of the rights and the rights and the rights of the rights and the rights of the rights of children and the rights and the rights of the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights of the rights of the rights and the rights of children and the rights and the rights of children and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights of children and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights of the rights of the rights and the rights of the rights of the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights and the rights of the rights and the rights and the rights of the rights of the rights of the rights of the rights of the rights of the rights of the rights of the rights of For the PCP, the incentive to birth is inseparable from the social function of maternity and paternity and from the realization of a motherhood and a conscious, free and responsible paternity. It is inseparable from the protection of children and young people and the promotion of their integral development, ensuring the right of the child to be desired and loved, as well as the economic and social conditions to be assured of all opportunities. It is necessary to guarantee living conditions for families, ensuring women an active role in society and professionally, compatible with family and personal plans. In view of the context in which we live, it is important from now on to curb the consequences of the worsening economic and social conditions for families who already have children and for those who want to have children, so that the difficulties already felt do not contribute to the reduction of birth. Life has already shown that income reduction and increase in exploitation are not a solution. It is necessary to protect the employment and income of workers, strengthen rights and ensure social protection, health, education and access to housing. In short, security, confidence, stability and life conditions need to be ensured so that families can freely have the number of children they want. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u190	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The diagnosis is known, as has already been said, we face a double dynamic of aging and receding the number of births and we have, in Portugal, a loud disincidence between the desired fertility and the actual fertility, that is, between the desires and projects of families and the obstacles they encounter to meet these desires and projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u192	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u193	Being a father or a mother is a choice, it is not an obligation, but it is also not a choice that can happen in a social vacuum. Therefore, it depends on the material and subjective conditions that we are able to create so that this choice can be made, that is, so that people can choose to have children, to have as they support them, to have how to make them grow. What proposals are the right parties proposing in this debate to deal with this problem? There are four, essentially: a office, a diagnosis, a debate and a possible committee. We agree that these are not exactly the most concrete and bold proposals in the world. Christmas is not a sectoral debate that we do in order to undermine the parliamentary point, nor does it resolve with another committee, a office, a debate. She actually goes through all our public policy choices, which we do here every day. The debate on birth is the debate we are discussing public services, the need for a care infrastructure or, for example, the integration of a public day care network as part of the education service, of the Basics Law of the Education System, of the public response. It is the debate that we do when we discuss the laws of work and the fight against precariousness, which undermines, which prevents people from projecting their future. It is the debate that we do when we talk about the need to value wages, which are a condition of living properly. It is the debate that we are discussing policies in the area of housing and the need for a public response to the obvious shortage of supply, in view of the speculation of income prices, particularly in the centres of large cities, in the face of housing precariousness. It is the debate that we are discussing — and we have been discussing it for so long — parental leave, not only its duration, but also its value and how they promote, or not, gender equality. It is the debate that we are discussing timetables, particularly working hours and their reduction. It is the debate that we do when, in the discussion of labour regulation, we demand more time to live or ways of decolonizing personal time, which is now invaded by permanent requests, particularly through the employer incursion, through new technologies, in the personal time of workers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the demographic debate is also the debate that we are discussing, for example, policies for the reception of all children living in Portugal, particularly migrant children. It is in the concrete choices in each of these public policies that we contribute, or not, to enable people to carry out their personal projects and their family projects. From that point of view, it seems to us quite frankly that we need less proclamations and less moral appeals and more public and labour policies that are friends with and care for children. It is for this debate that we are certainly summoned. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u194	So you agree with us!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u195	Mrs Mariana Silva of the ENP now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens consider that the issue of birth and demography is extremely important. It has already been said a lot about the cross-section of this issue, about the fact that effective proposals for support for Portuguese families go through access to education, health, with the right of everyone to have a family doctor, free public transport up to the age of 18 and above all to work rights. Speeches of concern about birth will not go away from empty words if the Portuguese do not have the security to take the step of having children, even if they want and have the dream of forming a family. Is it acceptable that those who live in precarious conditions, without knowing tomorrow, without guarantees and security, cannot assume responsibility for raising a child? Is it legitimate that those who survive with the current minimum wage and already make a huge effort to arrive at the end of the month with all the expenses paid decide not to have a second child, even if that is their wish? Is it understandable that those who face unemployment, who, in the coming days, will be increasing, are unable to dream of the constitution of a family? to the Portuguese, it is necessary to return their income, living conditions, rights, stability and security so that we do not have to face serious repercussions with the actual decline of the active population, which drags serious problems on the state and society. Incentives to birth are, above all, concrete and proactive policy options, by combating unemployment, by increasing national minimum wage, by housing policies for all, by a family doctor for all Portuguese, by ensuring, strictly, that no woman is fired, by combating precariousness, by policies in the field of education, health and free public transport for children and young people. They also come by ensuring a public network of free daycare and free children for all children, with conditions and distributed throughout the country, ensuring that parents are sure that, in these increasingly demanding times, they have to leave their children, with quality, with affection, with activities and affections. Incentives to birth are to be given priority in combating poverty! The creation of working groups or committees to find solutions is of dubious use. It takes courage to vote in favour of proposals that will meet the improvement in the lives of the Portuguese people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u197	Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Family policies and births are topics that have been on the agenda of political and social debate, of Parliament and of this government. To say otherwise, to ignore the policies that have been adopted since 2006 — and that have again gained political priority in government action since 2015, with the express aim of supporting birth—, as some of the projects presented, is to contribute to the opposite of what the CDS and PSD say they want in these same projects. Case studies and compared to a vast scientific literature show that it is the integrated, coherent and stable combination of various public policies over time, with the centrality of family policies, which allows for results in the creation of an environment that supports families in the implementation of their projects and parental decisions. The case of France is pointed out in one of the CDS projects as an example in promoting birth.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u199	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u200	But it is important to remember that the history of family policy adoption in France, with the aim of supporting birth, began in the eighteenth century and was successively deepened and adapted to new family realities, having as a background a strong social and political consensus from the beginning. It should be made clear that, for the PS, the importance of support for birth is based on the objective of bringing the number of children that people have of the number of children that the same people claim they wish to have, with the aim of each and every one of them being able to carry out their personal and family projects. We therefore want to make it clear that one of the perspectives with which the CDS bases the presentation of its projects under discussion, which relates to the loss of the importance of the family with the fall of birth, taking into account the low rates of nuptiality and the high gross rate of divorce in Portugal, is not the perspective of the PS nor has scientific evidence that demonstrates it, quite the contrary. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know of the negative impact of economic crises on fertility, from the very beginning of the loss of income and the loss of confidence and stability towards the future, and therefore there is the imperative need for countercyclical measures to prevent the drastic fall of birth and to promote the possible stabilization of the number of births. The measures which this Government and this House have adopted in the last legislation, as well as in this legislation, and which, as I said, have already mentioned, have continued to deepen: the definition of a decent, fair, income and wage policy that accompanies the increasing qualification of new generations; the fight against precariousness and promotion and maintenance, in the unemployment crisis we face, the employment of quality, with rights; the significant strengthening of the family allowance and its increase; the strengthening of support for school expenses, from the heavier to the school year; the reduction of the cost of daycare; the reduction of the cost of the daycare; the reduction of the cost of the premises, with the strengthening of the school social action in higher education; the promotion of affordable rent; the launch of another generation of the PARES (Enlargement Programme of the Social Equipment Network); the reduction of the cost of the daycare centres; the improvement of the current fiscal policy in direct support for children, families and their lives; the promotion of the most young; To ignore or devalue the evolution that we have made in this House in the country in adopting family policies and support for birth, sometimes unanimously, in some family policy measures, such as those we adopted in the last legislature, is an error that the PSD and CDS make in the proposals they present and that the PS cannot let go. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I call again on the case of France, used in one of the projects as an example below, to ask the following: what indicators of birth would France have today if since the 18th century he had been constantly trying to start from scratch, ignoring the policies adopted at each of the past moments? On the other hand, the CDS and the PSD — as has already been said — once again propose studies and follow-up committees, after several studies, including yours, and various monitoring committees, also proposed by you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u201	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u202	Mrs. Members and Members of the CDS, the family and support for the family are not, as they say in these projects, a taboo theme, and they are no longer so long ago. Likewise, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of the PSD, the family policies we have in force today are already based on a strategic and coherent vision. I advise you to read the Government Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u203	Mrs. Deputy, I'd appreciate it if you'd finished.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u204	I will finish, Mr. President. It is clear that we highlight and recognize a certain change in your family policy proposals against what they defended and implemented between 2011 and 2015, with catastrophic consequences for the evolution of birth. [[Protests from PSD MP Clara Marques Mendes.]] Mr President, I conclude by saying that the construction of a strong basic social and political understanding of public policy measures in order to bring the desired fertility to a close is important.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u205	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. He's already out of time in one minute.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u206	We are available for this, but these PSD and CDS proposals are not the answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u207	Mrs Lina Lopes, you have the floor to speak again, with 50 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u208	Mr President, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, I think we are not in the same country or in the same Parliament. Mrs. Deputy, in 24 years of legislature, you were in government on 18 of them. What did you do? Was it the six years we were doing nothing? And what did you guys do in 18 years? We didn't do anything? Oh, my God! Is everything done for you? Oh, my God! So it was wrong! Why don't parents have any more children? Madam Member, what we are asking for — I do not think you have heard us — is that we had an extended consensus, that we should work together, not that I am against the PS and the PS are against the PSD. Let's join forces! Families and young people need support, Mrs. I don't think you heard me! Mr José Soeiro, you must not have listened to me when I was in the gallery, because I said that we wanted the policies to define different areas: work, companies, social security, finance, education, health and so many others.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u209	Madam Member, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u210	They were transversal! That's what you told us! Did you hear me? You didn't hear me!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u211	I read the project!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u212	So what I really need is that when we speak seriously and we want a consensus, you run away. Do you want it or don't you want it? They've been 18 years in this government! [[PSD applause.]] [[At the moment, the PS Deputy Sonia Fertuzinhos drew the attention of the Bureau with a fingertip.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u213	The "nuts" are always a pleasure... [[Laughing.]] Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u214	Mr President, I would like to make an appeal to the Bureau, apologizing for the « browns ». As I saw that I was looking to the side, it was a way of trying to make me hear, not intervening. Mr President, I would just like to say, after the speech of Mrs Lina Lopes, that the PS Parliamentary Group will have the pleasure of bringing the Bureau, so that it will also be up to this meeting, a document with the evolution of family policies in different areas in Portugal, since 2006 so that, in the next debate, Mrs Lina Lopes cannot repeat what she has just said. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u215	Mrs. Deputy, we understand. The distribution of this document will be made. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to close this point, Mr João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u216	Mr President, the subject under discussion is sufficiently relevant and in such a structural way to justify a type of debate other than that which the Socialist Party, in particular, wanted to bring here. There are things that we have not been able to reconcile, and one of them thinks that the evolution of demography in France has been linear since the 18th century...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u217	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u218	... and that, therefore, there were no discussions, reforms and moments when, obviously, it was necessary to rethink everything that was being done.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u219	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u220	Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos wanted to convince us that this Socialist Party Government was a kind of eighteenth century for demography in Portugal and that, from now on, everything would be fine.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u221	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u222	Madam Member, neither the Socialist Party has done everything right or wrong, nor the solutions to its left exhaust the universe of possible solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u223	I didn't say that either!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u224	I will even tell you more: in no way, the CDS projects and, I believe, also the PSD intend to have that solution. The question we have raised here is very simple: in the face of demographic developments in Portugal, no one can convince us that, firstly, it is positive and, secondly, there is already a sufficiently solid and statistically relevant reversal so that we can see that some policies that have been promoted have this effect of substantial change in the evolution of our demographics. This should make us think that, for example, in the context we now have, with this crisis that the honourable Member has also talked about — and well — we have studies, i.e., statistical information, for example, of the DECO (Portuguese Consumer Protection Association), which say that the loss of income has been generalized to 70% of the family aggregates. The fact that 70 % of household aggregates lose income has such a social impact that it can also have an impact on demographics, particularly on births. Of course you will!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u225	Sir, I call your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u226	I will finish, Mr. President. Moreover, for example, the Banco de Portugal data say that the pandemic cut 8, 2 % of family income, that is, at the same time there is a cut in income by 70 % of families and a cut of almost 10 % in that income. If we do not realize that we have an added problem here with what was already a very negative evolution of demographics and that we are going to have an even more serious problem at birth, we are not even realizing how we will be able to solve all the other structural problems in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u227	We now move on to the sixth point of the agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill 476 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Creates a special unit of salvation and animal rescue by making the third amendment to Law No 27 / 2006 of 3 July and the first amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April, 494 / XIV / 1. a ( Non-registered Member Cristina Rodrigues ) — Other Law No. 27 / 2006 of 3 July and Decree-Law No. 45 / 2019 of 1 April, establishing the special animal relief team and 501 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Prepares Civil Protection for Rescue, Rescue and Animal Relief( 3 ). the amendment to Law No 27 / 2006 of 3 July ; 3. the amendment of Decree-Law No 134 / 2006 of 25 July; 3. the amendment to Law No 65 / 2007 of 12 November ; 2. the amendment to Decree-Law No 45 / 2019 of 1 April and 2. the amendment to Decree-Law No 116 / 98 of 5 May ), together with Draft Resolution No 580 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP ) — Training, within the framework of Civil Protection, to save and rescue animals in the event of a disaster. I begin by giving the floor to Mrs Inês de Sousa Real to present Bill No. 476 / XIV / 1. a
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Recent episodes, such as what happened in Santo Tirso, have shown the clear inefficiency of animal welfare and protection policies. This episode has not been and is unfortunately not an isolated case. Will it be so difficult to imagine, even for a few seconds, what it is to be in the middle of a greenhouse, in a camp whose fire is threatening, and, despite instinct, not having any chance of escape? Or imagine fear was so much that they couldn't even mobilize? And even imagine that, despite your hope that someone would appear, were literally delivered to your luck? We all know the lamentable outcome of cases like this. In the emergence of the newspaper, events such as disasters, extreme climatic phenomena or fires are absolutely devastating, affecting people, but also animals, and they also expose, particularly well, the need to have not only a specially articulated and mediated response, but also a targeted response to those who tend to be forgotten when confronted with the tragedy: animals. Two months after the fateful fire of Santo Tirso, which killed nearly a hundred animals, the NAP today presents an initiative with which it intends to respond to a manifest failure of the relief action. We cannot but wonder what it would have been if this Parliament had approved, in the past legislature, the NAP initiatives that specifically aimed at the integration of municipal veterinary doctors as civil protection agents and the creation of a rescue and animal rescue team. With this initiative, which we are discussing today, the NAP then proposes that a special unit of salvation and animal rescue be created, i.e. a rescue force and assistance to animals in areas affected by serious accident or disaster. This unit must necessarily have, in its composition and internal organization, veterinary doctors and nurses or other specialists who consider themselves relevant to this effect, able to intervene in crisis scenarios, like what already happens when human lives are at stake. This initiative also proposes to reformulate the structure of Civil Protection with its integration of municipal veterinary doctors or at the service of the municipality as civil protection agents, thus creating rescue and rescue teams that thus allow a timely response, but also that municipalities can, optionally, create the much-needed rescue and animal rescue units composed of their veterinary doctors or necessarily municipal services and representatives of zoophilic associations, as the success of these missions will be greater, the greater the ability to organize and respond. Finally, we intend to include in the emergency plans for civil protection, whether national, regional, district or municipal, guidelines for rescue, relief and animal assistance because, as recent history has shown us, only a concerted action enables us to respond effectively on these occasions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as far as animal protection is concerned, we cannot continue to live on volunteerism and, above all, resign ourselves from political responsibility, but also from the moral responsibility that we have for animals, which, in fact, we have placed under our full dependence and to whom we have recognized here, in this House, our own legal status. Portuguese society was shocked at the episodes that took place in Santo Tirso and, while elected and elected, we cannot continue to close our eyes to this reality. The ability to put ourselves in the other's place is perhaps the most noble and distinct human capabilities, but it is of little use if it is not accompanied by concrete, proper actions to correct what is wrong. Today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have that opportunity again. So let us know how to meet this challenge. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u229	You now have the floor, to present your bill, Mrs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in my first speech, and of the few that I will be allowed to do at this Legislative Session, I cannot but regret the change to the time grid adopted at the last Conference of Leaders, which does not mention the Members who do not register. With all due respect, it seems to want to silence the voice of two deputies, women, legitimately elected by the people. With regard to the initiatives now under discussion, for example, both the Pedrogão Grande and Santo Tirso tragedy have made it clear that there is an urgent need for an entity responsible for disaster relief. And I thank the individuals and associations who have played a key role in this area. In the hearings about what happened in Santo Tirso, it was possible to verify that no party, from right to left, remained indifferent. I therefore ask you not to be indifferent now, that we all work together so that, in a next emergency situation, there is already a structured entity and a relief plan that can give a prompt and efficient response and that life-loss, whether human or not, is avoided as much as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u231	You now have the floor to present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Serious accident and disaster situations affect populations and goods, but also affect animals in a less visible way. Rural fires, for example, are of the most frequent and serious disasters in our country, with tragic human consequences, natural resources, goods, businesses, but also, and again, of animals. In the major fires of 2017, in Pinhal Interior, the Ministry of Agriculture estimated the deaths of half a million birds, over 5000 sheep and goats, about 1000 pigs and over 800 cattle. These are also gross biodiversity losses. The recent fire in Santo Tirso exposed several problems, among them, the fragility of our animal protection system in disaster. It was not the local inhabitants, who were also exposed to a high risk, that the number of deaths would have assumed greater proportions. Ensuring concrete responsibility for animal protection also guarantees, and not only, the protection of people who take serious risks to protect them. Now, what happens is that the current legislative framework of Civil Protection is unclear about rescue and animal assistance, something that this project will correct. It becomes taxively within the scope of Civil Protection to act to protect and rescue these endangered animals, in addition to people and goods. To this end, we propose that the area of animal health and welfare be represented in the district and municipal civil protection committees and also that representatives of the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary Affairs ( DGAV ) and the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests ( IUCF ) become part of the Operational Coordination Centre, either national or district. at the level of the municipalities, we propose that doctors and veterinary doctors participate in the development and operationalization of the municipal plan of rescue, rescue and animal relief, to integrate in the municipal plan of emergency of civil protection. In the operational context, we believe that the same doctors and the same doctors should integrate the animal rescue teams provided for in the municipal civil protection emergency plans. Finally, like the municipal committees for the prevention of rural fires, the formation of a municipal committee for the protection of animals in a disaster situation is also established so that preventive action plans can be put in place in each municipality to minimize these situations. However, in order to ensure that the new civil protection tasks can also be carried out effectively, it is essential to ensure more professionals, more resources and more training. Animal protection must be guaranteed by Civil Protection at the various levels at which it is structured. The State, and each government, shall in turn ensure the protection, means and training of actors involved in civil protection. For the Left Block, it is important that the response be given structurally and integrated in the Civil Protection Organization, without being a separate space, but a generalized concern. The saving of animals must, in this sense, be a concern of all and of the whole structure of Civil Protection. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u233	You now have the floor for the presentation of the draft resolution of the ENP, Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situations of abuse of domestic animals are becoming increasingly visible. In addition to intervention in the legal framework, it is necessary to raise awareness both of the authorities and of the holders of animals. There are reports of ill-treatment, abandonment, accumulation of homeless pets and their use in violence against people, but on the other hand, there is increasing potential for the participation of animals in the psychosocial development of human beings. The Greens have always maintained on their agenda concerns about animal welfare, which have materialized in the most diverse legislative initiatives presented in this House. For the Greens, it is important, above all, for society to know, in some detail, the practical effects of the application of the most recent laws for animal welfare, so that it is perceived whether they are being applied or to what extent the objectives to which these laws are proposed are being met. It is urgent to take measures to follow up Noé's syndrome, such as rethinking policies or measures for the monitoring of vadium and sylvested dogs. Unfortunately, it is when we are confronted with extreme events, such as that of July 18, with the forest fire in Santo Tirso, which led to the death of dozens of animals, partly caused by the difficulty of relief, that one perceives the need for a deeper reflection on this issue. Although this tragedy has been caused by a strong fire, we cannot ignore the information that has come to us about the conditions under which these animals were in the affected shelters, as well as the high number of animals that these shelters housed. Therefore, in addition to monitoring the legislation, because only by evaluating the practical outcome of the laws that are created is possible to assess whether they are actually achieving their objectives or constitute only a description of good intentions that end up not to be implemented, there is another component that is important to achieve and that the consequences of the forest fire mentioned above have highlighted, which is linked to the prompt and effective operation of the entities responsible for intervening in disaster situations. The need for these entities to be endowed with human resources capable of dealing with these situations has become evident in order to save and rescue, as quickly as possible, the animals in danger of life. The Greens believe it is essential to ensure the formation of people within the framework of Civil Protection and consequently within the bodies responsible for disaster relief, to save and rescue animals in danger of life, involving, wherever possible, animal protection associations, taking advantage of their experience and knowledge. It will be another step in the long way to prevent cruelty directed to animals, a response that should be more comprehensive, involving the most diverse areas, such as health, safety, education, social action and justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u235	I now give the floor to Mr António Lima Costa of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law of the NAP, of the MP not registered Cristina Rodrigues and the Left Block and the draft resolution of the ENP have as their common objective to integrate into the Civil Protection system the component of rescue, rescue and animal rescue. These are initiatives that arise following the emotional environment generated by the death of dozens of animals in two shelters, caused by a forest fire. This dramatic event in July and all the discoordination, which was very clear and very visible, of the entities involved, has undoubtedly aroused us for the relevance of the matter we are discussing today. In this regard, the PSD, a party with scrolls in the cause of animal protection – was a precursor in the process of criminalizing animal abuse –, of course, sharing concerns with animal relief raised here. Having said that, as far as the substance of the initiatives is concerned, we believe that the NAP and Mrs Rodrigues' bills, which are not signed by Cristina Rodrigues, which are said to be a copy of each other, cannot deserve our agreement. This is because the main proposal that integrates these initiatives — the creation of a special unit or a rescue, rescue and animal relief team — is disproportionate and highly questionable, not to say that it has perverse, counterproductive and even harmful effects to our common objective. The proposal, too voluntary, of the creation of this unit may have a media impact, not discuss it, but is beyond our reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u238	in a normal time of fires, for example, and in view of our territorial extension, it would be impossible to unfold by several theatres of operations, very distant between themselves. We therefore disagree with this model. The draft resolution of the ENP is harmless and inconsequential and therefore deserves no further comments. As for the left block bill, PSD recognizes its virtues. Civil protection is an essential public service for the safety of the citizen, which, it is recalled, must always be at the centre of its action, but the PSD defends that it is equal, whether at national or municipal level, with gradualism, with good sense, with realism, the extension of the mission of civil protection to rescue and animal rescue, whether they are of company or production. We therefore believe that the project of the Left Block is a good basis for work, which deserves further discussion in the field of expertise and the PSD is very interested in doing this work. And on the four initiatives present here, at the moment, that is what we have to say. But I cannot finish without leaving a very concrete question, directly related to the matter that brings us here and which is imposed in this context. In view of what happened in the shelters of Santo Tirso, an episode which, in the background, pushed this debate and with the sole aim of setting up an scapegoat and diverting attention, we saw in this House, by Mr. Prime Minister, the defamation of the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary, of his former Director General and, in practice, of the entire Ministry of Agriculture, which recently celebrated 100 years of existence.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u240	It was another episode in the strategy of the ongoing dismantling of the Ministry of Agriculture, this by removing the competences of DGAV for the health and well-being of pets and attributing them to another ministry. With great ease, the head of government ignores the crucial role that DGAV has played in animal protection and health and all accumulated and internationally recognized veterinary and zootechnical knowledge and embarks on unacceptable political experiments. This Levianity endangers public health and animal health and welfare by putting aside all experience acquired in this field, by disregarding an integrated analysis and the obvious synergies of scientific knowledge achieved and by introducing decoordination, bureaucracy and duplication of tasks. We are faced with a political mistake that is inexcusable, because it runs counter to a total technical and scientific consensus of specialists in this area. And therefore the question that is put to the Left Block, but which is extensible to all the parties on the left that support the government, is to accept passively, silent, this political, technical and scientific error of dismemberment of DGAV with regard to the health and well-being of pets. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u241	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to these various projects which are presented here today and are under discussion, I would like to point out, firstly, that it was right in the first intervention that Mrs.PAN said - and well - that this matter was very present in Portuguese society when the fire started in Valongo and with the burden of concern and dramatism that we witnessed in Santo Tirso. So, in fact, this is a concern that exists in Portuguese society and it is a concern that, in our view, makes sense. Moreover, it should be pointed out that, as in other matters, this type of concern has been gaining ground — and well — in Portuguese society, which, in general, has a positive view of animals, particularly pets, because a very significant proportion of Portuguese has pets when compared to other countries. But the concern is not, of course, limited to pets, especially if it is forest fires with the size that we sometimes see. We had large fires, more than 20,000 per year, with 138 000 ha of burning forest area. We do not have numbers for the number of animals that should have lost their lives in these 138 000 ha, but surely among pets, wild animals and animals in general, it will be a very large number of animals that lose their lives every year in forest fires. Having said this and made this reflection, in relation to the concrete projects and, of course, to the project of the NAP and that of the unregistered MP Cristina Rodrigues, who somehow go in the same direction and with the same concern being, in fact, as was said here, very similar to each other, I must point out that it is an idea, it is an intention. However, from our point of view this intention could and should be regulated and legislated by the government itself. That is to say, we are neither against the idea nor against the concern, but I think it should be the government to do so. Regarding the project of the Left Block, it is a more detailed, more regulatory project, and there we already have more doubts about some narrow and specific aspects of that same regulation. With regard to what the ENP presented to us here, we agree in the form, that is, we believe that this matter, starting from a legitimate and serious concern of Portuguese society, should have the form of a resolution, giving, after all, that the executive power could incorporate these concerns, integrate them into a civil protection logic and give them an answer. There is something very important to us — even to finish, Mr President — to which these projects do not go in detail, but which is fundamental, as we have seen in the case of Santo Tirso, which is the issue of supervision. Control is the touchstone. I mean, without supervision, we will not be able to prevent or treat these same situations. Emergency brigades, rapid brigades, yes, sir, but without supervision there will be no solution. Having said this, and in conclusion, I would like to stress that the CDS-PP will not impermiss any of these projects, it will not be directly opposed to any of these projects, hoping that, later, in committee and in specialized capacity, if you can find a solution that gives the best answer to a real concern of Portuguese society.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u243	I now give the floor to Mrs Alma Rivera of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, the situation of last July, of the fire that struck the animals of the two shelters known as "The Cantinho das Four Patas" and "Friends shelter" touched us very much and even unworthy the generality of the population. Tens of animals died and we all wondered what was missing and for the CFP we need to see the matter clarified. But the question here is really the issue of civil protection. in the same way, in 2003 and 2005, in 2017, with the dramatic proportions that fires took and that we cannot forget, it is necessary to ask what can be done to improve civil protection, but above all it is necessary to start the necessary changes and that is why in 2018 the CFP presented recommendations for a new civil protection policy. Disaster situations and fire situations, in particular, are of a complexity that is difficult to describe here. But one thing is certain: the difficulty of intervening and saving people, animals and goods is directly proportional to the lack of means, to the wrong guidelines for civil protection and, in the case of fires, to the serious problems of forest disorder, which are accumulated for years of bad political options. It is from the CFP's view that animal salvation and rescue is a concern that we must bear in mind, which does not depend on a team own of civil protection, but rather on strengthening the means of DGAV and veterinary health authorities at all times and not only in situations of tragedy, which we have come to propose successively. And it depends essentially on the civil protection system itself, in a whole, which needs urgent reinforcement. Operational commands can already, at all times, call and involve professionals and teams who understand appropriate to the specific situation. It does not seem, frankly, that in an emergency scenario it facilitates the creation of a new organic unit that matches what already exists and even ends up translating itself into a factor of disordination. Operations should be managed by those with that responsibility and, instead of more structures, more means are needed. But it is necessary, yes, to improve cartography, registration, emergency plans, forest defence plans, where appropriate, with the most accurate survey of the building and its use. And that is the indication of the existence of shelters, for example. Yes, it is necessary to bet on the prevention of collective risks, on the robustness of response to extreme events, on the formation of populations and on the qualification and valorization of agents. It is in this sense that we will follow the Greens' proposal. It is necessary — and this discussion cannot in any way go beyond that — to finance firefighters, as we have repeatedly advocated, to value them, to give them concrete conditions for their important mission. It is necessary to strengthen the financing of municipal chambers so that they have municipal civil protection services with adequate resources. It is necessary to install a culture of self-protection measures, building, with zoophyll associations and private shelters, evacuation plans. at the same time, civil protection must be an integral part of the planning and planning instruments of the territory. In short — and this is the nuclear issue — there is a need for means. The municipal veterinary health authorities must be strengthened, as we have already proposed and have been discussed and successively plunged into this House. They are fundamental in a disaster situation, not just. As vital are civil protection teams and all those who are called upon to intervene. Today, even today, all civil protection agents give their best in very difficult conditions and civil protection must become a priority and must invest in its various components, so that we do not have to regret any more loss of human, animal and heritage life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u245	Mr. Santinho Pacheco, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u246	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are an increasingly attentive and available country for animal welfare issues. The animal cause gains more space every day in social communication and attracts a citizenship with values. People are touched by suffering and politically responsible bodies and powers of central and local administration for indifference. Bad treatment, abandonment, slaughter of errant animals for control of populations go from the act reprehensible to absolute prohibition, to criminalization. Good theoretical answers are not always the ideal solutions in the long run. The exponential increase of errantes gave pretext for more illegal shelters and dramas such as that of Santo Tirso. But animal euthanasiar is a civilizational retreat and the abandonment without pain does not go through a reprehensible act. How do we reconcile all these principles, which are going to neutralize each other? The legislative initiatives we are discussing are as generous in their purposes as some of them are ineffective in their objectives. What was the opinion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) on these diplomas? On the inclusion of municipal veterinary doctors as civil protection agents: entities currently consecrated as civil protection agents correspond to first-line services in response to any emergency, protection and relief situation, including mandatory national and district operational coordination centres, within the framework of the Operations Management System ( SGO ). Municipal veterinarians respond not as civil protection agents, but as an entity with a duty of cooperation, like what has already happened with social security services or the provision of medical and legal expertise, to give just one example. With regard to the mandatory guidelines for rescue, rescue and assistance to animals in civil protection emergency plans: the emergency plans for civil protection are fixed by resolutions of the National Civil Protection Commission, there are no specific determinations in terms of rescue and rescue of human lives, medical emergency, psychosocial support to populations. It is not proportionate or appropriate to include in the Civil Protection Bases Act guidelines for rescue, rescue and assistance to animals in civil protection emergency plans. The proposed guidelines can and should be incorporated in a future revision of the Emergency Plans Directive. It would be more natural. With regard to the establishment of municipal rescue and animal rescue units by the determination of municipal civil protection committees: the arrangements for the organisation of local authorities' services are the responsibility of the municipal assemblies, and it is also up to the municipal chamber to create flexible organic units and to define their respective tasks and competences.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u247	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u248	The theme of the existence of municipal rescue and animal rescue units should not be considered under the Civil Protection Bases Act. It's a municipal decision. On the special duty of cooperation with the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority ( National Emergency and Protection Authority ), there is nothing to prevent, for municipal veterinarians, a special duty of cooperation with the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority may exist. Currently, ANEPC integrates the Special Civil Protection Force, a force for prevention and response to emergency situations and recovery of the normal life of communities affected by serious accidents or disasters. Intervir does not exclude animal relief, not justifying the creation of a special force, of a specific scope, integrated into the National Emergency and Civil Protection Authority. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u249	In addition, its duties include the provision of medical and veterinary care to injured animals, which will be better exercised in the municipal civil protection regime. It is important to take into account existing entities with responsibilities in this area. The animal protection response should be considered through the action of the municipalities, since, in accordance with the law, the municipalities have the obligation to have at least one veterinary physician in their frameworks. Finally, I would also like to refer to the GNR Nature and Environment Protection Service, in particular in the context of animal rescue and rescue and in compliance with animal rights safeguard legislation, and therefore the need for training in the field of civil protection to save animals in the event of a disaster is now indispensable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u251	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs.Cristina Rodrigues.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Although these initiatives may have been driven by the tragedy of Santo Tirso, the truth is that the subject before them is not new. And, in fact, one thing is right: something is wrong, because if it weren't for the tragedies that happened, they wouldn't have had such a serious impact that they had. For example, by taking in this last intervention, almost a third of our country has no municipal veterinarian, which may be a relevant factor. The idea of the proposed initiative is that a team should be set up within civil protection, giving the government freedom to regulate as they think appropriate. Moreover, I am absolutely available to discuss the best way to prevent situations like this, and in fact, animal protection is the priority here.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u253	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that civil protection is our guarantor of protection in disaster situations and it is also the guarantor of goods and animals. And if it is necessary to structure an integrated response and, in addition to monitoring, to ensure planning and prevention, it is also true that the mission must be assigned to civil protection and integrated in all areas of its work, ensuring workers, integration of training and preparation for this. in this sense, the process of speciality can in fact guarantee not only the participation of the National Association of Municipalities as that of the National Authority for Civil Protection itself and a wide range of entities that improve these initiatives. But if we do not take the initiative of approving and ensuring that there is a speciality process, nothing will change. We'll still have the fire problem. We will, in fact, have the municipal firefighting committees, but we will not have committees that guarantee civil protection and that municipalities have this planning that is defined by general law, as is already defined at the level of rural fires. in this sense, and because the State has also failed in the component relating to municipal veterinarians appointed by DGAV, the government, the State must also ensure that it makes every effort to allocate resources, professionals and the necessary protection to civil protection. We are willing to work on this diploma. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u255	To close the debate, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we bring here a proposal that aims to integrate veterinary doctors into the different spheres or dimensions of civil protection—and we cannot forget that it has a dimension not only municipal but also districtal and often, at the level of the central government, a national framework—which is essential to strengthen with those who have the technical ability to do so, who are the veterinary doctors, it does not cease to be clearly curious, to listen to, in particular, the PSD, to go out in defense of the DGAV and to reject and withdraw the possibility of integrating veterinary doctors, who have this knowledge, as we propose. This is not only incoherent as it calls into question a public health principle, which I so greatly appreciate, and which we obviously accompany, and also knowledge to safeguard animal welfare. There is no possible extension or solution more effective than providing civil protection with a legal figure, created and provided for in the legislation, so that it can be materialised afterwards. That is why we are fully available to work in the field of expertise. But we must not fail to call, in particular the PSD and the Socialist Party, who have here the option of not having animal protection as just a mere electoral flag that stirs up in times of campaign, but that, when they are called to change the law and make it effective, they again leave the animals behind and ignore their suffering. in the same way, the PCP, in its view, believes that everything is always good, so there is nothing to change, when, in fact, we have thousands of animals to die in fire context, whether in livestock, pet animals or biodiversity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u257	He didn't hear anything! I was distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u258	There is, in fact, a problem related to supervision. We recognize this same problem, but this is another matter, very far from that which we are talking about today, and we cannot confuse and mix associations that seriously do their work with the case that happened in Santo Tirso, in which this figure has been misused. [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Moreira Testa.]] Despite the progress we have made in this area, there are, in fact, gaps that persist and that demand from us, as elected and elected, concrete action in these matters. Until now it has been civil society, in particular the associations, which have been on the ground and to respond to these problems related to animals, but this cannot continue to happen, it must be the State that assumes this responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u259	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u260	I conclude now, Mr President. And I cannot but invoke the words of Prof. Fernando Menezes Lamb that alerts us to the idea that there is an anomaly of values when we ignore animal suffering, made its parallel to our rights and our conscience, since we are able not only to make animals suffer but also to avoid this suffering. We have the last time to look at this derogation from legislation, the animal status itself, which recognises them as sensitive beings and also recognises them with a right of aid. Let us not deny it today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are fully available to work on this initiative in the field. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u261	Mrs. Members, let us now begin point 7 of the agenda, the general discussion of Bills Nos 450 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Presentation of the report of the ICNF to the Assembly of the Republic, to monitor and strengthen compliance with the national goal of reducing the area of eucalyptus in the forest area, 493 / XIV / 1. a (PAN) — establishes the monitoring committee for the monitoring, prevention and control of the natural regeneration of the eucalyptus and the exotic woody invaders and determines the development of a plan to control the natural regeneration of eucalyptus and action for the surveillance and control of the exotic woody invaders and 500 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Creates a public breeding network for the multiplication of native species, recovery of burned areas and transformation of the landscape, along with the Resolution Project No 521 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Recommends support to the Government to remove burning trees with fires in 2017, start of spontaneous growth eucalyptuses and for ( re) foresting with endogenous species. To submit Bill No 450 / XIV / 1. the ENP, I give the floor to Mrs Mariana Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing two projects that are in the direction of the already known concerns that the Greens Ecological Party has been presenting regarding forest management and the impacts that forest monocultures and fires cause. It is possible to have a more resilient forest to fire and the truth is that today we have a law that determines that there can be no tree actions with eucalyptus, giving rise to re-arborization actions. This law provides for a compensation mechanism which means that if there is authorization to plant a new area of eucalyptus it must be compensated with the start of an already existing area of eucalyptus, and the new area must be smaller than the existing one to progressively reduce the global area. With the fires of 2017, absolutely dramatic and devastating, it seemed to have learned the lesson that it was necessary to change direction, changing the characteristics of our forest spaces. When three years have passed after the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande, the Greens continue to pay attention and are committed not to lowering their arms, as long as the problems persist. The Resolution Project No 521 / XIV / 1. the Government recommends that the necessary measures be taken to control the expansion of the area occupied by spontaneous growth eucalyptus, resulting in support of land cleaning, the start of eucalyptus, the re-arborization, as well as the emphasis on control over the burned areas. This when Bill No. 450 / XIV / 1. it reinforces the idea that it is necessary for the ICNF to report annually to the Assembly of the Republic the monitoring actions it has undertaken on the ground, in order to comply with the law of arborization and re-arborization, as well as the concrete result of these actions. We cannot allow ourselves to continue to ignore the negative impacts of eucalyptus monoculture, there has been much reported by the Greens, particularly at the environmental level, due to the depletion of water resources, the sharp loss of biodiversity, the impoverishment of soils and the worsening of desertification, the evenness of landscape, as well as the increased risk of fire making rural and peri-urban populations more vulnerable. The concerns transmitted to the Greens by many autoarchs reveal the uncontrolled way in which, in recent years, the eucalyptus has grown spontaneously. The spontaneous eucalyptus must be removed at the end of one year after the fire, so that what we can all see does not happen in the areas covered by the 2017 fires: the eucalyptus formed authentic « lawns», germination in any space, whether in the lands previously occupied by other arboreal species, whether on agricultural land, uncultured animals, whether on agricultural and forest roads, among many other places where there was no intervention, including the brms of the shoot lanes. If natural regeneration and germination of eucalyptus seeds with fires are foreseeable, which blocks the growth of endogenous species, for example, of leafy species, it is already incomprehensible that, in view of existing scientific and technical knowledge, no measures are taken, after fires, to avoid this uncontrolled density of eucalyptus, as occurred in 2017. Many researchers who develop studies in this area have warned of the need to treat and clean the land covered by fires, to avoid an authentic forest with trees of different sizes occupying forest settlements, which will soon be filled with fuel material and with aggravated fire risks. Without management, these areas become an authentic barrel of powder, with uncontrollable consequences. It is therefore essential to support small owners in response to the devaluation of burned wood and to support reforestation with native species, such as rape, oak or chestnut,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u263	Madam Member, I would like to draw your attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u264	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. I said that these native species, because they have a great moisture content, are more resistant to fires. In view of the evidence from the past and given the emphasis on climate change and its extreme phenomena associated with climate change, it is therefore important to take all measures to safeguard populations in the future and to make our forest more resilient.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u265	For the presentation of Bill No. 493 / XIV / 1. a, from the NAP, I give the floor to Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent years a vast area of the territory has been subject to fires of great severity with harmful effects on ecosystems. As a result of successive fires, there is evidence that eucalyptus is naturally regenerating through seeds deposited in the soil, in the burned areas, i.e., the species is naturalizing, which will involve loss of biodiversity by replacing indigenous species with eucalyptus. In addition to the uncontrolled natural regeneration of eucalyptuses, several outbreaks of invasion of woody exotic species have occurred in the burning areas, threatening protected areas by forming closed forests of thousands of plants per hectare, which produce millions of seeds and remain viable for several decades. There are several invasive plants in Portugal. However, the acacia and haqueas species are the ones that are most dispersed and cause greater problems, because they are adapted to the fire and benefit from its occurrence. The spread of these species is fuelled by fire, since the seeds have pyrophytic characteristics, that is, they are stimulated by fire to germinate. It is impossible for the country to have a fire fighting device that fully responds to the increase in the amount and intensity of fires, as the reality has already shown us. The first line of action must certainly be prevention. And, in this regard, Portugal has great challenges to face, since, contrary to what is usual in other countries, the vast majority of forest property is private, with extensive abandoned areas and numerous owners. We need to adapt our forest to our new climate reality. This will only be possible through forest reorganisation, by betting on indigenous and fire-resistant species, creating mechanisms for removing obstacles to the resizing of plots for forest management and creating incentives for ecosystem services, by bet on species with positive and fire-resistant environmental impacts. This path is crucial, whether in the prevention of fires, whether in the retention of water resources in the soil, or in the fight against desertification which threatens about 60 % of our territory. Thus, we present a bill that aims to prevent the spread of species, such as eucalyptus, and invaders, such as acacias, which have a fast and easy fuel behavior in a fire. When we look at the burned areas three years ago, what do we see? Eucalyptus and invasive species growing. Instead of implementing a forest reorganisation policy in the burned areas, the government makes eucalyptus and invasive species grow. Until the next big fire! This is precisely what we want to avoid with the bill we bring here, which creates a monitoring committee for the definition, implementation and monitoring of plans and measures for the prevention and control of the natural regeneration of the eucalyptus and the exotic woody invaders.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u267	Mr President, I would like to draw your attention to the time spent.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u268	We cannot let government inaction bring us more tragedies than we did three years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u269	I will give the floor to Mr. Ricardo Vicente, of the Left Block, to present Bill No. 500 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — It creates a public network of farmers for the multiplication of native species, the recovery of burned areas and the transformation of the landscape, but it is necessary for me to inform Mr André Silva that he still has 36 seconds. You have the floor, Mr. Ricardo Vicente.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block today brings to the Assembly of the Republic a bill that proposes the creation of a public network of forest farmers for the multiplication of native quality seeds and plants, in order to support the recovery of burned areas, but also to support the substitution of eucalyptus monoculture by indigenous forests, resistant to fire and climate change. The challenge is great. The forest represents the main use of soil in Portugal, representing the wild spaces about two thirds of the national territory. Rapid growth species represent almost half of the forest populations, with particular emphasis on eucalyptus. The current composition of the forest and its mismanagement resulted from many years of wrong public policies that led to the rural exodus and the abandonment of forest and agricultural areas. But this situation is also the result of the huge lobby of the cellulose industry, which has influenced governments consecutively in order to boost their casino business, with burnt land policy. The results are in sight. The large fires that have occurred in recent years and the advance of invasive plants in the territory are only a sample of what we can reserve for the future, if the climate change process is not stopped. The Left Block considers that the reduction of fire risks is increasingly dependent on public policy for the forest, which must be strongly linked with the Integrated Rural Fire Management System ( SGIFR ). It is therefore necessary to intervene at the level of the landscape, ensuring the diversification of forest areas, with reduction and fragmentation of eucalyptus areas. To ensure greater resilience of the territory to fires it is necessary to build forests with native species, with particular emphasis on caducifoli, forests capable of influencing the water cycle and to ensure greater resilience of the climate system as a whole. It adds the need for the implementation and expansion of agro-silvo-pastor systems, and it is essential to ensure support for small farms. To walk this way, the country has to have the capacity to produce native plants and seeds of quality and easy access, service for which the ICNF assumes special production and certification responsibilities. However, as a result of the dismantling of public forest services, the ICNF currently does not have the capacity to respond efficiently to its functions of certification and monitoring of private farmers. The ICNF has only four public nurseries, which, in addition to insufficient, suffer from immense deficiencies, as is the case with the Monte Gordo nursery, which is almost disabled. Today's public livers cannot even respond to the needs of the current public forests, such as the National Forest of Leiria and other coastal forests. To meet these challenges, the Left Block proposes, through this bill, to carry out a study that identifies the predictive needs of native plants in the country for the next decade; the requalification and expansion of ICNF farmers, ensuring a public network for the production of certified seeds and plants at controlled prices, designed to support landscape transformation measures; and that public investments and support for the transformation of the landscape are used preferably to public farmers, where they have supply capacity. The Left Block is committed to the resilience of the territory and we hope that the remaining parliamentary groups will be available to approve this project. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u271	Mr Joaquim Barreto, from the PS, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to greet the ENP, the Left Block and the PAN for bringing the debate here to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic, the bills and the draft resolution on matters related to the forest. These bills and draft resolutions, although having different objectives and purposes, address, essentially, the concern with the expansion of the eucalyptus and the reduction of areas of this species, as well as the fight against invasive species of rapid growth, such as acacias and other woody exotics. All these legislative proposals deserve our best attention, even though they do not all have our agreement. The Socialist Party and the Government, either in the previous legislation or today, have demonstrated clearly and unequivocally that they are fully in line with these essential objectives for better forest, that better serve the real interests of the country and of the communities where forest spaces are inserted. To this end, the previous Government launched a line of support for forest investment through the RDP 2020 ( Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 ) and the Environmental Fund for non-agricultural land reforestation, reforestation of areas burned between 2003 and 2019, improvement of economic value with support for areas of reconvertible eucalyptals through reforestation with native leaf species. The previous Government also approved Decree-Law No. 11 / 2019 of 21 January amending the legal regime of forest planning, management and intervention plans, and Decree-Law No. 12 / 2019 of the same date amending the regime to which forest species are subject in continental territory. Already in this legislature, the Assembly of the Republic adopted a resolution recommending to the Government that it approve plans for requalification and reforestation of forest forests and perimeters burned in 2017, in particular the National Lawn Forest, as well as their forest management plans. No less important was Law No 77 / 2017 of 17 August, which this House also approved, in order to halt the expansion of the immense monocultures of eucalyptus and establish a mechanism for the gradual decrease of the area of eucalyptus in the national territory, through the compensation regime. In addition to these legislative initiatives of the ENP, the Left Block and the PAN, which aim to recover burned areas, the reduction of the eucalyptus area in forest areas, as well as the transformation and qualification of the landscape, the Government, aware of its importance, has already launched a set of four warnings in the PDR 2020, with a budget allocation of EUR 85 million, in order to promote the diversification of forest species and the increase of resilience in these areas with tree spots. In view of what I said earlier, both the Government and us, Members, and the Assembly of the Republic, we have been paying attention to these matters and fulfilling our task of legislating, implementing and supporting appropriate policies to solve the problems that are now under discussion and appreciation. It is thus proven that it is not because of the lack of laws that the designs of having better forests are not fulfilled,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u273	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u274	... with the reduction of eucalyptus areas and the fight against invasive species. However, we admit that the legislation approved may not always be applied effectively. However, we believe that, given the great importance of the forest sector for the country, all but all — forest producers, individually, companies in this area, associative movement and other entities — we must commit ourselves and strive to achieve the best results of the laws that Members and rulers make to have a sustainable forest with a sustainable environmental dimension and that helps to provide adequate answers, in economic and social terms, especially to the people living in it, creating wealth and value to combat desertification and the depopulation of the interior of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u275	Mr John Dias of the CFP also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the Greens Ecologist Party on the very important concern which brings us to this House today with the recovery of the burned areas and their re-arboration. The raindrops of these last few hours and these last days can't make us forget that we are in the middle of fire and can't forget that we are walking wide steps towards what is the true time of fire prevention, which is winter. We all know this, indeed, the government knows this, but at the stage of fire prevention does not do anything, probably because the mediatization and visibility of the subject at that time is not as much as it has in summer. The truth is that we have witnessed the drama of fires year after year and, unfortunately, Portugal has seen more than 4 million hectares of forest burning in the last 40 years. The burning forest area is equivalent to 138 % of our forest, i.e. it burned our entire forest and nearly half more. That is why it is so important that a re-arboration programme is made, because, annually, the burning area is much higher than the one that is re-arborrowed. The human, economic and environmental dramas that are experienced annually in Portugal, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a lot of serious and sustained answers and not mere regrets and proclamations. Mrs. Members, it is necessary to go back more than 17 years in order to recover an initiative presented by the CFP in this House, in which we proposed a re-arborization programme for the areas covered by fires, which was rejected by the PSD and the CDS with the abstention of the PS. About 20 years after the submission of this proposal, what happened in terms of fire prevention? Little or nothing and we continue to have the drama of fires, which is a good example of the year 2017. The disaster of the fires is all the more incomprehensible, Mr. Members, as well as their causes are well known: an agricultural policy with the absence of land planning policies, because thousands of families, farmers and pastors have been expelled from agricultural and forestry lands, which were themselves the best capital for the detection, prevention and firefighting; a forest in large part dedicated to resin monoculture, easy land for fire deflaming; forest areas targeted at the interests of rapid growth industrial forest promoters; low wood prices and forestry yield; and, yes, Mrs. Members, lack of a policy of re-aborbing the burning areas, but mainly a forest sown by depopulation, by the economic desertification of many areas and regions of the country, by the dismantling of state structures for the forest, of which they are responsible both the PSD and the CDS and the PS, who do not resolve this problem, making agriculture and the rural world suffer. And what has been the position of the current PS government, such as PSD and CDS? « Shake the water from the hood »,... [[The PSD MP João Moura's laughs.]] ... to deresponsibility, launching a terrible attack on small forest owners, accusing them of being guilty of fires. It is therefore necessary for political power to assume its responsibilities, in particular by defending small property, not by making small property and scapegoats. Mr Joaquim Barreto, let me tell you that it is not with propaganda that the problem is solved and much less with fiction. The problem of fiction is not even in creating this lie, it is the main obstacle to taking the necessary measures. [[Protests by PS MP Joaquim Barreto.]] The CFP will defend the creation of a system to support the cleaning of forest areas to which small and medium-sized owners can resort, as well as the exchange of service providers, with standard prices, which help these owners to meet what is necessary, without penalising the authorities and — very important, Mr President. Members — without withdrawing the owners the possibility of maintaining their land. We also advocate the creation of a system for the enhancement of residual forest biomass through the creation of biomass plants.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u277	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u278	Mr President, I conclude by saying that the Portuguese forest and the people do not need propaganda. There will be no defense of the Portuguese forest without respect for the small and medium-sized producers and without fair remuneration for the wood they produce. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u279	Mr João Moura, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In view of the problem of the lack of attractiveness of rural territories, which represent two thirds of the national territory, and of its increasing abandonment, the anti-eucalyptus fundamentalism of the solutions presented little or nothing contributes to the economic, social and even environmental revitalization of our territory, on the contrary. They are contributions that enhance the abandonment of the territory, insofar as they aim to withdraw and annihilate their main sources of forest yield. in this House, just one more year ago, in May 2019, Mr. Prime Minister dedicated a 15-year debate to the forest, in particular the integrated strategy for forest fires. Mr. Prime Minister said that he had never done as much by the forest in Portugal as he has already done and that the reform of the forest was the biggest since the time of D. Dinis. To these statements, two years after the greatest fires of memory in Portugal, there were others such as that « nothing would remain as before» in the Portuguese forest. Just look at what you have burned this year to understand the validity of this speech and the failure of this government's policies as regards the forest area. We talk about numbers that help to understand the reality of the eucalyptus in Portugal. Is Eucalyptus the dominant tree in the Portuguese forest? Yes, it is. It represents about 26 %, followed by the envelope, with 23 %, and the raw pine, with 22 %. Is eucalyptus responsible for forest fires in Portugal? Of course not. Our Mediterranean climate, our forest disorder and our abandonment of the forest are, yes, the big ones responsible for forest fires. The eucalyptus burns more than the other species? Probably, yeah. of the species that burn, about 30 % are eucalyptus, because, as has already been said, it is a resinous species of high fuel content. We are also aware of the characteristics of this plant regarding the need for water and its very strong reproductive capacity and rapid growth. However, in the interest of truth, it is important to remember that there are soils in Portugal where eucalyptus is of the few plant species that survive and adapt there—or eucalyptus or kill, or eucalyptus or soil erosion. Eucalyptals in Portugal also contribute to mitigating millions of tons of greenhouse gases. So you like it or not, the eucalyptus helps to rescue gases that all of us, you and I, also help to produce. We see: 95 % of the eucalyptus we produce is intended for the production of paper pulp; the paper pulp industry contributes 4, 3 % of the gross domestic product; 4, 9 % of the total Portuguese exports is due to the cellulose industry; 95 % of the cellulose is intended for the production of paper, be it office paper, for books or even sanitary paper.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u281	That's your great love!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u282	All of us — all of us! — we use this role in the most varied ways. Still on paper, I am aware that you too have been involved in campaigns to end plastic, campaigns to encourage replacement of plastic with... paper! Ironia. You are not only paper consumers as they give priority to other products. Does the role that you consume come from any other source? This morning, I crossed with some of your advertising outdoors scattered by the city of Lisbon. They are printed on paper and I remembered the origin of that same paper.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u283	The Greens are not on paper!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u284	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, no more hypocrisy, no more demagogy. Today, as Mr Joaquim Barreto has already said, the law already determines that there can be no eucalyptus plantations without permission from the competent public authorities, in order to control their expansion. I recall that, in parliamentary hearing, Mr. President of the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests assumed that his services were unable to respond due to lack of human and material resources. Now, you want to increase the skills and work of this Institute when it assumes no more competence, no more means or resources to respond to what it has in its hands. from the PSD, knowing the characteristics of the eucalyptus and its economic, social and even environmental importance, we continue, with rationality and responsibility, to defend a multifunctional forest that is productive and that has the ability to finance new projects of forest, conservation and landscape. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the authors of these initiatives, it is easier to produce radical legislation to blame the eucalyptus for all the evils of the Portuguese forest than to hold the government responsible for the total failure in the planning and management of forests. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u285	Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u286	Mr President: The projects we are discussing here are based on some concerns that, I believe, are those of all of us. First of all, concern about the existence of back-up support, their monitoring and, above all, the problem of forest planning, the wider planning of the territory. And more: all of us, who walk the country, can verify that, in several of the areas burned, more or less to abandonment, grow spontaneously, especially eucalyptus, but also acacias. We all realize that, in time, this means that those territories will be very susceptible to fire. in these concerns, I believe, there will be few differences, but the question is that these projects go much further. These projects are based on the assumption that the fire problem begins and ends with the eucalyptus. It is the theory of the diabolization of the eucalyptus, as if, if we succeeded in extinguishing the eucalyptus in Portugal, the problems of the fires would disappear, and that is not true, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The problem of fires is, above all, the problem of abandonment of the forest, abandonment of the territory and its disorder. And the abandonment of the forest and the territory have to do with its economic use, with the guarantee of the way of life of the population there. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you this in an absolutely frontal way: Portugal takes first place worldwide in the production and export of cork and is among the first in the production of paper and paste.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u287	It's your love!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u288	To think this is a problem that causes the fires is not to realize that the territory and the forest, when they are clean and treated, fight the fires and do not have that problem. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, because we differ in identifying the problem, we cannot follow these proposals and it will also be difficult...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u289	It's your passion!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u290	Mr. President, if you are Mr. Members have removed the masks in order to superimpose your voice to me, even without a microphone, I find it very difficult to finish my speech, which I think is quite serene. As for the production of reports, we have nothing against it, but the creation of new public bodies with the aim of creating reports—growing almost like mushrooms or eucalyptuses! — I do not think it will solve the problem of forest or fire, creating new problems for taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u291	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. I'm sure all of you. Ladies and gentlemen know what the sole objective of the mask is. For an intervention to close the debate, Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u292	Mr President, Mr. João Moura, who made a beautiful statement of love to the eucalyptus. I think someone will want to see the statement you just made, as well as the declaration of love for plastic, which we already knew, since you voted against the Greens project for the reduction of plastic in our day-to-day. Keep the record later. What we have just proposed as radical, as you said, was only monitoring and action on the uncontrolled and spontaneous growth of the eucalyptus. Uncontrollable and spontaneous! I did not speak against any producer or against the planting of eucalyptuses, I spoke about spontaneous uncontrollability, which unfortunately continues to happen, because there are fires repeated every year. After the drama of the fires, comes the devaluation of the wood, the loss of income, the high costs that imply the reforestation and the consequent abandonment of the burned areas. Without any surprise, the eucalyptus regenerates itself naturally. Right? Oh, my God! It is urgent to « cut off the evil by the root».
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u293	There's the difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u294	It is urgent to start the eucalyptus and demand measures to stop the natural regeneration of the eucalyptus, which occurred and occurs in an uncontrolled and wild manner, increasing the risk and vulnerability of the territories, in shorter and shorter cycles of fires. With the fires of 2017, it was evident the need to reverse the paradigm of decades of inadequate policies of the real needs of the interior, rural areas, interface areas and forest spaces, promoting adequate management of the territory, particularly with a forest management that cannot affect a monoculture zone, literally on agglomerates, but rather on a management based on the diversification of species more resistant to fires in forest settlements. We therefore expect all parties to vote in favour of our two projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u295	In closing this last point, you have the floor of Mr Nelson Peralta to take account of the names of the Members. Members of the Autonomous Regions who accompanied the work by technological means.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u296	Mr President, I am announcing that the following Members were present by video conference. Members of the Autonomous Region of Madeira : Olavo Câmara, elected by PS, and Sérgio Marques, elected by PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-09-17.u297	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I will read the agenda for tomorrow's plenary meeting, which will take place at 10 a.m. In the first point we will have the discussion of the Bill No 55 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the prevention and investigation of railway accidents by partially transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 798. The second point will be followed by discussion of the Proposal for Law No 51 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to legislate on the posting of workers within the framework of the provision of services by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 957. On the third point, we will discuss the Bill No 47 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to approve the legally binding lease regime. On the fourth point, we will have discussion of Bill No 52 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Authorizes the Government to adopt a special regime applicable to the expropriation and establishment of administrative services. The fifth point is contained in the Bill No 53 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Creates the extraordinary process of business viability. In the sixth point, without time allocated for discussion, the Annual Report of the DNA Profile Database Supervisory Board, for the year 2019. On the seventh and final point, the vote will take place. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you all and wish you a good night. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 3 minutes.]]
