ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists. Let's start the session. [[It was 9 hours and 32 minutes.]] Mrs. Authorities, I ask you to open the gallery doors to the public. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will take advantage of the fact that the Government is not yet present in the Chamber for Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha to report the file. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Law Nos 10 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Change the Code of the Income Tax for Collective Persons, partially transposing Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 1164 as part of the rules on hybrid asymmetries, which falls to 5. the Commission, 11 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — establishes the obligation to communicate to the Tax and Customs Authority certain internal or cross-border mechanisms with tax relevance, transposing Directive ( EU ) 2018 / 822, which falls to 5. the Commission, and 12 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Transposing Directive ( EU ) 2017 / 828 on the rights of listed shareholders with regard to their long-term involvement, which falls to 5. the Commission. Bill No. 133 / XIV / 1 also entered the Bureau. a ( Citizens) — The second amendment is made to the special career scheme of senior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy - Decree-Law No 111 / 2017, of 31 August 2017, to the first amendment of the legal regime of the career applicable to senior technicians in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, secondly designated TSDT, under the work contract regime- Decree-Law No 110 / 2017, of 31 August 2017, and to the first amendment to the remuneration scheme applicable to the special career of senior technician in the areas of diagnosis and therapy, as well as the rules for the transition of workers to this career, which regulates the first Decree-Law No 25 / 2019 of 11 February, which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 9. the Commission, 187 / XIV / 1. a ( PS ) — Strengthens the penal and procedural framework for crimes against the sexual freedom and self-determination of minors, complying with Directive 2011 / 93 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 13 December 2011, and establishes automatic reporting and blocking duties for sites containing child pornography or related material, which is lower than 1. the Commission, 188 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Alter the Decree-Law No 503 / 99 of 20 November strengthening the rights of workers in public service in the event of accidents at work or occupational disease, which falls to 10. the Commission, 189 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Amends Decree-Law No 113 / 2013 of 7 August, strengthening the rules of protection and animal welfare in scientific research, which goes down to 7. the Commission, 190 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Altera o Decree-Law No 75 / 2008 of 22 April - Regime of autonomy, administration and management of public institutions of pre-school education and basic and secondary education, which falls to 8. the Commission, 191 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Emergency plan for the establishment and modernisation of the network of official animal collection centres, which falls to 7. the Commission, 192 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Democratic management of pre-school establishments and basic and secondary schools, which falls to 8. the Commission, and 193 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Approves the Statute of the Former Combatant, which falls to 3. the Commission. I then refer to Resolution Projects Nos 203 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government promote the strengthening of the contingent of assets and operational means and equipment of the security forces and services, which falls to 1. the Commission, 204 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the establishment of a National Committee on the Rights of the Child in compliance with the recommendations of the United Nations Committee on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which falls to 1. the Commission, 205 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Extraordinary competition for the provision of vacant places of entities within the Ministry of Culture, which falls to 12. the Commission, 206 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Recommends that the Government evaluate and consider a model for democratic management of public institutions in basic and secondary schools, which falls to 8. the Commission, 207 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — By setting up an early intervention recruitment group, which falls to 8. the Commission, 208 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Strengthens animal protection and welfare rules in scientific research, which falls to 7. the Commission, 209 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — The creation of a regime for the linkage and integration into the career of theatre teachers and the creation of the respective recruitment group, which falls to 8. the Commission, 210 / XIV / 1. a ( PAN) — Ensure the access of deaf people to the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission and 211 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Invest in territorial cohesion and combat desertification in the interior of the country, which falls to 13. the Commission,
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u3	I ask Secretary Helga Correia to continue to report on the diplomas entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : They have also entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, Resolution Projects Nos 212 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends the creation of a special career as a single collective transport agent, which falls to 13. the Commission, 213 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary procedures for the construction of the new Hospital de Lagos, 214 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government contract Portuguese Gestive Interpreters for the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission, 215 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Construction of a new health unit in Upper Seixalinho, in the Town Hall of Barreiro, and the allocation of family doctor to all users, 216 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Reducing the use of the National Health Service to services and conventions, replacing them, respectively, by hiring professionals and strengthening the response in complementary means of diagnosis, which falls to 9. the Commission, 217 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Valuing the professionals of the National Health Service, which falls to 9. the Commission, 218 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Digital Platform in Geographic Information System ( GIS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 219 / XIV / 1. a ( BE ) — Wage compensation fund for the professional fishermen of Esponend, 220 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Preparation of procedures for the creation of administrative regions, which falls to 13. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 221 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — By cancelling contracts for the prospecting and production of hydrocarbons, which fall to 11. the Commission, 222 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government suspend the expansion project of Humberto Delgado Airport and the construction of Montijo Supplementary Airport and conduct a strategic environmental assessment on the necessary responses to the country's airport capacity down to 6. the Commission, in connection with 11. the Commission, 223 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends to the Government the programming of mobility and reduction of the use of the car by means of an intermodal transport plan, in particular with regard to CP and Port Metro, which falls to 6. the Commission, 224 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Monitoring and evaluation of the programme to support the sterilization of errant and pet animals and the implementation of the network of official collection centres, which falls to 7. the Commission, 225 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government develop integrated housing and social responses for agricultural workers in the Mira Rega Perimeter, which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 7. a and 11. a Commissions, 226 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government implement a moratorium on the common roll hunt leading to the population restoration of the species, which falls to 7. the Commission, 227 / XIV / 1. a ( BE) — Recommends that the Government inevitably regulate animal legislation in circuses, which falls to 12. the Commission, 228 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the development of an intervention plan in bars and ports, which falls to 7. the Commission, 229 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — In defence of the Public Postal Service, for the recovery of public control of the CTT-Correios de Portugal, SA, which falls to 6. the Commission, 230 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Mobilization of public housing assets, which falls to 6. the Commission, 231 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — For the accelerated construction of the new Hospital de Lagos, 232 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — The improvement of rail transport in Braga district and the realisation of the Braga / Guimarães direct connection, which falls to 6. the Commission, 233 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By safeguarding the heritage and rehabilitation of the House of Fisheries in Oeiras ( Lisbon ), 234 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — By the urgent completion of the national road reclassification works 125, which falls to 6. the Commission, 235 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Monitoring plan for the populations of lobo-beritics and their wild prey, which falls to 11. the Commission, 236 / XIV / 1. a ( PCP ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the 225 National Road, which falls to 6. the Commission, 237 / XIV / 1. a ( CFP ) — Recommends that the Government carry out a development plan for the national territory with measures to enhance the interior and to combat the abandonment of the rural world, which falls to 13. the Commission, 238 / XIV / 1. a ( PSD ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation and enforcement of measures to combat obesity, which goes down to 9. the Commission, and 239 / XIV / 1. a ( ENP) — Strengthening measures to protect the Iberian wolf in Portugal, which falls to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretaries. The members of the Government are already present, which I take advantage of to greet. We will start the agenda, the first of which, in the context of the discussion, in the speciality, of Bill Nos 4 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the Big Plan Options for 2020 and 5 / XIV / 1. a ( GOV ) — Approves the State budget for 2020, is based on the assessment of the rules avoked by the Plenary, Article 116. o, 169. o, 181. o is 184. the and proposals for new articles. To open the debate, Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the « blackout that we verified in public investments at the time when the right governed the country, it is attended again... [[PSD laughter and protests and PS-protests.]] Could not connect with command "%s": %s. ... I repeat, there is again an offensive to stop public investment, in a lamentable negative coalition that has been generated in this Parliament. [[PSD protests.]] It seems that there are parties in this House who want to turn the expansion of the Lisbon metro into a new novel of the new airport, where they study, study and study and decide nothing and move forward with the investment. [[PSD, BE, PCP and CDS-PP protests and PS counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are starting the work, which is expected to be long. I therefore ask for greater understanding of the speeches made by all speakers. Please continue, Mr. Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u8	Mr President, as I said, there are parties who want to transform the expansion of the Lisbon metro into a new novel of the new airport, where it is discussed, where it is studied, where it is not built or advanced and where the country stops. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The circular route we are discussing has already been the target of a technical study; it has already been the target of a public consultation process, which was opened until 22 August 2018; it has an approved environmental impact study; the project has been discussed and approved at the Lisbon Municipal Assembly; it has guaranteed funding, and we know that many of the projects presented by the right or guaranteed funding had;...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u9	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u10	... has a political decision made. In fact, he's already advanced with a number of contests and is in progress. Now, it is a huge contradiction, but above all, a tremendous irresponsibility, which is being caught up in these works when this House, in the past four years, has only talked about what work needs to be done, it is necessary to make investments, and when it is ready to do so, it is hindering investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is irresponsible and this stops the country! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, remembering that you are not blocking the circular route, you are blocking public investment, you are blocking the expansion works of the metro of Lisbon. [[Protests by PSD Member Filipa Roseta.]] We will not forget this and we will remind the Portuguese of what you are doing, your tremendous irresponsibility! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u11	Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The result of this vote has already been considered a negative coalition. Because it is not only the Socialist Party that can make positive coalitions with the left, so have we. And I'll tell you why. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u13	This coalition is positive because it prevents the government from limiting the expansion of the Lisbon metro to a kind of car for tourists down in Lisbon. [[PSD applause.]] It is positive because it prevents the government from spending EUR 210 million which adds 1900 m of metro line, thus becoming the world's most expensive metro line kilometer. An absurd! [[PS Member Carlos Pereira's laughs.]] It is positive because it prevents a solution that does not serve the mobility of about 2, 8 million citizens living in the Lisbon region. On the contrary, they are better served. It is positive because it holds a circular line plan, which collects the critique vehemently from all political parties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u15	... of the academic community, of all professionals in the sector and, essentially, of those who need the metropolitan, the users. [[All right!]] And it is also positive because it holds a circular plan that damages the lives of populations from Loures, Odivelas, Telleras and Lumiar in an irreversible way. [[PSD applause.]] [[He's really wrong!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u16	Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have here once again to discuss the expansion of the metropolitan of Lisbon. The CDS has credits in this area. [[Oh, here, here!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u18	Remember what was said and everything we heard in 2017 during the election campaign about a proposal for expansion presented by Assumption Cristas and the CDS-PP. Today, everyone recognizes that this expansion is necessary. Today, everyone acknowledges that this proposal, that initiative, makes sense for Lisbon, makes sense for the Lisboa and makes sense for all those who come to work in Lisbon. The proof of this is that we have either the PSD, either the PCP, or the Left Block and even the PAN saying now that the expansion is good, that the expansion is positive. But we also have a Socialist Party who insists stubbornly on a solution that does not serve the city of Lisbon, which should not be a priority, which does not serve the users of this same metropolitan. [[PS protests.]] We understand that the circular line should not be the first priority. The problem with the NAP proposal and initiative is that, on the one hand, there is a priority, which is Loures — and we see this as something positive — but then it says that it will evaluate the expansion of the metropolitan of Lisbon to the western part of the city. We understand that there is no need to evaluate anything. It is a real evidence of the need for the use of that same line, which serves much more the interests of the city and the entire Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. on a final note, I would like to take this opportunity to highlight: the Left Block here in Parliament takes the position of saying that it is against the circular line, when — it is strange! — in the Lisbon Chamber voting alongside Fernando Medina, supporting this same solution of the circular line. [[PS and BE protests.]] A little more coherence was needed, and the CDS, in this matter, has consistency and has a proposal that makes sense. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u19	Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. and Mrs Deputies, talking about the expansion of the Lisbon metro with this project presents a problem. It is that this circular line project is not an expansion, it closes the line and closes the metro network of Lisbon. And so it's a problem. That is why, last year, there was a recommendation adopted in this House of the Republic, which did not vote against. In other words, the Socialist Party itself at the time proved to be against the circular line. Therefore, the vote that existed was only confirmation of a need, that of the effective expansion of the Lisbon metro and not of the closure of the network. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u21	You now have the floor by the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal of the CFP, which was adopted yesterday in the Assembly of the Republic, on the Metropolitan of Lisbon, does not have « se » and does not have « but ». We continue to say in the House what we say in the authorities, either in Lisbon or in the other authorities in the region. [[PCP applause.]] And we continue to defend—and it has been approved! — that this aberrant strategic option, which is wrong, is cancelled and suspended from the circular line, and that there is indeed the definition of the priority of the link to Loures, the link to Alcântara and the western part of Lisbon. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u23	That's not what the PAN is asking for!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u24	This was approved on a proposal from the CFP. We continue to affirm, with consistency and rigour, the proposals we stand for. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u25	Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the first day the government has not yet been surprised; on the second day there is no doubt: the PSD's attitude in the budget debate has been a complete irresponsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u27	Mr President, we are no longer talking about the fact that the PSD has said, at the beginning of this debate, that any additional expenditure should be properly compensated. We are no longer talking about this, but we have not yet seen a single compensation and you have already distributed millions of euros. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u28	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you that adopting a measure worth hundreds of millions of euros is equal to adopting 30 measures worth tens of millions of euros. The gentlemen. Members do not have the slightest notion of what they are doing from the point of view of approval in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u29	We've been saying this for four years and they don't want to listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u30	And it wasn't serious. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u31	They don't want to listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u32	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is serious. Members have forgotten the time when they were government. It's just, when you guys are. Members were government, they appealed to the principle of responsibility, they called for a government to implement a programme and a budget and now you no longer want to know what responsibility it is for who it is, and by the way they do not miss being government again because they made an even greater mistake yesterday. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there's a time to discuss, plan, and then there's a time to run.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u33	They didn't want to! They didn't want to argue!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u34	Sir, calm down. Calm down, Mr. Deputy. I repeat again: there is a time to discuss, plan, and then there is a time to execute. There are many parties that, apparently, either at one stage or at another or at another stage, do not consider whether this is the time or not to suspend works but the PSD expected a little more. Sir, the study is done,... [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u35	Study of what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u36	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the study you approved yesterday is done. The gentlemen. Members forget that, in such matters as this, they must respect metropolitan areas, respect municipalities. We thought the PSD was a party that respected the metropolitan areas, which respected the municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u37	And respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u38	But he doesn't respect it. You don't respect me! It's just that if you respect... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... I repeat, if I respect it, take into account that this work is under way, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u39	He's not, no! [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u40	It's in progress, sir! The work is under way and this probably involves not only the payment of strong compensation as the work puts at risk, with the loss of Community funds, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The honourable Member will not suspend the work for a year, but at least he will suspend it for at least three years, and he will be responsible for the loss of hundreds of millions of euros of Community funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u41	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government is here for the day after the vote to hold you responsible for the decisions you have taken. I have to say more: you are still going on time. I repeat, the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are still on time. in these matters we must be responsible. [[PSD protests.]] We can't say one thing on Monday and Tuesday and on Wednesday and Thursday. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this work is under way...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u42	He's lying! He's lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u43	... and you will be responsible for suspending a work for three years, for the loss of Community funds and probably for the payment of compensation to persons, in particular to undertakings responsible for implementing it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The gentlemen. Members must be aware of the decisions they make and do not seem to us to have done so in numerous decisions they made last night. So we appeal to common sense, to common sense, to minimal sense,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u44	That's what's missing in your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u45	...to let us run. The country needs development, the country needs the execution of structuring works,... [[PSD protests.]] ... does not require Parliament to interfere in matters of executive character — executive, Member of Parliament! Mr President, do you know what the PSD did with the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group in the previous Parliament? Oh, my God! I will tell you what we have done: we have approved the national infrastructure plan. For what? Oh, my God! To generate consensus on these matters. And then what did we do? In matters like these, we have delegated to the metropolitan areas the definition of their priorities. And that's how we've worked so far, to the ladies. Members will understand that it is worth suspending works in Parliament. [[PSD and BE protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they're still on time. They're still in time to rethink your decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u46	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I have asked for the floor just to remember a few things, the first of which concerns these accusations of irresponsibility. I would like to remind you that Mr. Secretary of State makes many accusations of irresponsibility, which, in fact, are not on the CDS, but do them on the basis of approval of expenditure; then, what he has really talked about was the suspension of a work, and, as I know, that does not imply expenditure, quite the contrary. So, we've already understood... [[PS protests.]] We got it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u48	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members to keep silence as possible and let the honourable Member intervene.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u49	I said that, therefore, we have already realized, from the point of view of priorities, what they are. Secondly, I would like to recall that whoever chose to bring this budget into Parliament as if it had an absolute majority, with only a relative majority, was the Government. [[All right! It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u50	Therefore, it would be sensible for the Government to sit down to negotiate — in fact, to sit with the partners who have chosen unilaterally, and for some reason chose to sit on that side, on the left, and not on this side — and to ensure governmental stability. [[PS protests.]] Therefore, if your partners have failed you, frankly, it will be the government's fault. Thirdly, I would like to remind you that Portugal is not only Lisbon. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u51	So he agreed that we should discuss the measures that are for the whole country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u52	Mr Duarte Lambero, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, tell me to what extent it makes sense, in an election campaign, to propose more than 20 metro stations... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u54	You're forgetting the rest!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u55	But 20! Mrs. Deputy, that's where this is, and all the other things are up here. Ladies and gentlemen have proposed! And the question I ask is this: is it suspending works that you arrive there? Oh, my God! At the 20th of these metro stations they proposed? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP protests.]] It's just that we're still trying to make our own and we need to get to yours, Your Honor! The gentlemen. Members find it normal, rational and coherent to present to the Portuguese, in a campaign, all the metro stations that any citizen asked for! Is that what you're talking about? If I were a citizen, I would get to the CDS and say, "I want a metro station at the door of my house," I'm sure that Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I proposed!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u56	Mr Secretary of State has already exceeded the time of the Government. I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u57	Then they come here and they think it's normal to suspend them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u58	Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u59	Mr. President: Mr. Secretary of State, it is regrettable that you speak and reveal ignorance. [[It's true! All right!]] [[It's true! All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u60	It reveals ignorance for two reasons. There is a draft resolution approved by all political forces in this House, only with the abstention of the Socialist Party,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u61	... I repeat, only abstention, which covered this subject. Regarding the work, there is no work. There were two contests and there were no contestants.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u62	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u63	Finally, they got two competitors. Zero play. [[PSD applause.]] As for the dialogue, Mr. Secretary of State, for four years the PSD maintained this position in this House of the Republic. The Minister of the Environment was just laughing when I was talking about 'carousel for tourists', so don't ask for responsibilities now! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u64	Mr Pedro Rodrigues of the PSD Parliamentary Group now has the floor for intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This budgetary debate is clearly marked by the clear democratic claustrophobia of the Socialist Party, as seen in the previous debate,... [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u66	... but it is also clear that the Socialist Party continues to personify the popular adage: « Well prays Friar Thomas, look at what he says, do not look at what he does». [[PS protests.]] The proposal we are now advocating for a new vote is the clear demonstration that the Socialist Party and the parties on its left, the partners who have chosen on its left, continue to advocate social policies, continue to talk about the support of the most disadvantaged such as the alpha and the omega of their policies, but, when necessary to be there, to support the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity) and the mercys, which replace the State in providing support to our children, our elderly and the most disadvantaged, are not available to approve proposals for corporisation of the most elementary justice. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are taking this opportunity to give the Socialist Party and its left one more opportunity to approve what is of the most fundamental justice, so that we do not ask the social sector to be where the State fails, continuing the state to fail permanently with the IPSS and with the mercys. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u67	You now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposals we voted yesterday from the PSD and the NAP on the New Bank were a bit strange, since they required the Government to do what is already in the law, which is to bring to the Assembly of the Republic any injection above the authorisation of EUR 850 million. Are those proposals that hurt? No, no, no. Are those proposals that do well? Not either. These are proposals that actually do nothing. The question is as follows: and up to EUR 850 million? Will the government continue to be able to inject a value into the New Bank which did not foresee and did not announce to the Assembly of the Republic? The truth is that it goes, because the only proposal that prevented this from happening was the proposal of the Left Block and that proposal was rejected. That is why we want this proposal to be voted on again and to make it very clear what is the position of each party, which is for when, within a few months, the Government is approving a new injection into the New Bank, we know exactly who defended that decision coming to the Assembly of the Republic and who defended the opposite. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u69	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The abandonment of cultural heritage for decades in our country has had disastrous effects not only in terms of safeguarding the building but also in terms of the extreme lack of staff affecting services in this area, such as museums. The CFP has brought proposals and solutions to these problems in this Budget and, yesterday, one of them, which concerns the interventions of the heritage risk letter, was partially approved, only that it was approved without the financial envelope proposed by the CFP for its implementation. Clearly, it's not enough. Other fundamental proposals to break the direction of deresponsibility of the State before the heritage were also rejected, but the CFP will not give up and will not cease to fight for the recruitment of at least 250 workers to the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage, dependent services and regional cultural directions; by reactivating the National Plan of Archaeological Work; by expanding the freeness of museums; by doubling the words of the ProMuseus programme. But we must also point out the approval of investment measures for the implementation of the last phase of the National Museum of Resistance and Freedom in the Peniche Fortress, because, Mrs and Mrs. Members, there is no future of progress without knowing and safeguarding cultural heritage and historical memory. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u71	You have the floor, with the time handed over to the Government by PS, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I said yesterday, the sale of the New Bank was essential for the fall in interest rates and for the financial stability and budget that we presented to this House, for example what we did in the previous two years, includes the necessary means not only for scrutiny but also for the fulfilment of contracts. Last year a new scrutiny mechanism was added, first by the government, which later transformed this House into law. And if it is important to increase the vote, it is also important to comply with the contracts, and what we ask this House to do is that: that it gives us all the conditions to be able, in the name of financial stability, credibility and trust, to stimulate employment growth and competitiveness, and this is the fundamental role of this process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u73	Mr Hugo Costa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday new measures were adopted for the PART ( Public Transport Tariff Reduction Support Programme). The budget is EUR 137 million. It is a measure of broad social impact, of broad environmental impact and that many, over recent times, have tried to put into question. It is the measure that enables hundreds of euros to be saved to Portuguese families. We know that today some have tried to destroy public transport, we know that some have abandoned public transport, but this measure, together with more than EUR 15 million for PROTransP, allows for greater and better public investment. The Socialist Party therefore continues to be part of the solution for more and better public transport. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u75	Mr Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : Ten years ago, thousands of students paraded in the streets of Lisbon and demanded Parliament to stop the government's bad decision at the time when it changed the scholarship regulation. A very significant part of the scholarships in higher education remained, at the time and in the following school year, without that same scholarship. Ten years later, the Block can approve a proposal that, by increasing the eligibility threshold, guarantees about 10 000 more students with scholarships. It took ten years. There are too many injured, there are too many injured, but it was worth insisting on the one that was a big mistake in 2010 but that now, in 2020, we have managed to reverse, increasing the number of fellows, for a public higher education for everyone and for all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u77	Mr João Dias of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We have called on the plenary to propose the CFP on the programme of appreciation of family and rural agriculture for the strategic importance that family agriculture assumes for national production, as a guarantor of food quality and sovereignty, and also for the harmonious occupation of the territory, for the protection of the environment, forest and the rural world, for economic and social cohesion in vast regions of our country. The programme we are defending here is the need for measures to be implemented and for the provision of funds that respond to the implementation of the status of family farming. We cannot accept that this Government will continue the position taken by the previous Government, to express only intentions and interests of love for family agriculture, without any realisation. This is the example of the publication of the Family Agriculture Statute and Ordinance No 73 / 2019, which is empty, without measures. They are simply declarations of intent, in fact, political declarations, which add nothing to the world of family farmers in Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP has brought to this Budget proposals that value the productive sector, such as the integrated programme for the defence of the national forest; measures to support the costs of electricity in the production, storage, conservation and marketing of agricultural and agricultural products and livestock products; development of the procedures necessary for the'restitutionalisation' of the House of Douro; the multiannual programme for the recovery and completion of the hydro-agricultural use of Lower Mondego; the programme for the support of knowledge and research on fish resources; the programme for support for small-scale, local and coastal fisheries and the performance of fishery workers; the plan for intervention in bars and ports. Therefore, we must also highlight the approval in this State budget of the proposal of the CFP for the counting of effective service time for the allocation of retirement pension to fishing professionals, a very important measure in the face of the interruptions of fishing activity. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u79	Mr Tiago Estévão Martins of the PS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u80	Mr President, yesterday we had the opportunity to hear the PSD talk about the importance of not leaving anyone behind in higher education, which just leads me to believe that we are facing an identity problem in the PSD, between the "good PSD" and the "bad PSD". The "good PSD" came yesterday to ask for more bags, but what the PSD did not say was what the numbers prove. What the PSD did not say was that the Government of the Socialist Party allocated more than 25 000 scholarships than the PSD allocated in the same period.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u81	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u82	What the PSD did not say was that a student will pay less than 400 euros of tip than it would pay if we had not started this path with this government, while the PSD has increased the propines. We know, sirs. Members, that the PSD that says that the goal of doubling the number of beds in residences is not ambitious is the PSD which, when it was government, not only didn't increase them as it reduced them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u83	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u84	We can only draw a conclusion: that 'good PSD' is PSD in the opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u86	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in the PS, we are very proud of our work. More bags, higher bags, lower tips. This is what you can count on, this State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u87	Mr Álvaro Almeida, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS yesterday voted against a proposal for the creation of continuous care beds whose expenditure is planned in the Budget. It is thus proven that what the PS wants is to vote against the PSD and not vote in favour of the Portuguese. [[PS Member Protests Hortense Martins.]] It's regrettable! That, yes, is irresponsible, it is not wanting to benefit the Portuguese and just want to vote against the PSD proposals. That, Mr. Secretary of State, is that it is irresponsible. You have chosen to rule with the PS, vote against the PSD and now you do not want the PSD to save you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u89	You now have the floor to Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The tariff reduction that started in 2019 began a paradigm change that meant saving for families, encouraged the use of public transport and has a key role in the decarbonization of our economy. It is a starting path that could not in any way be frowned upon, nor could the responsibility of the State be diminished, for the greatest contribution that the municipalities will make. The difficulties that still persist are known, so the effective annualization of the value of the tariff reduction program is essential. That's what was approved yesterday. We don't forget what we have yet to do, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. There were proposals for extra money for pendulum movements, for the integration of CP into the operation, for immediate measures to strengthen the rolling stock and to move forward more forcefully and more quickly in creating and strengthening the supply of transport in low-density territories. All of this will also make its way, of course, but to annualize the value of the tariff reduction support programme is important to ensure that we do not go back on the road started in 2019 and that we respond to the needs of the populations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u91	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday the NAP measure was approved, which allocates €900 000 for conversion projects in organic agriculture. While some cigarettes claim to defend the rural world through benefits to bullfighting, the ant PAN works to give conditions of modernization and economic and environmental sustainability to farmers. [[PSD protests and laughter.]] The measure is good, it was approved, but it had the votes against the PSD and the Liberal Initiative and the CDS and the Arrival abstentions. Yesterday, the PSD contributed decisively to the lead of the NAP proposal for the New Bank, which is the most transparent and responsible. The Left Block says it's weird, or like the Best, but if it were, it would have been approved. Whoever is listening to us compares the texts of the proposals and understands which is the most complete, the most transparent and the most responsible of the proposals. And today the PSD has the opportunity to ensure that Parliament's participation in this process is rigorously and technically clarified, voting in favour of points 2, 3 and 4 of the NAP proposal, which are in line with the PSD proposal, which has been approved. Today we are in favour of the plenary proposal 446 - C on Article 183. o -A — Enlargement of the social tariff in energy, which aims to extend the social tariff to more people, to whom it most needs. Portugal is one of the countries with the greatest energy poverty, where people do not have financial conditions to warm up their homes, and the most effective way to combat energy poverty is by extending the social energy tariff. The socially just answer that we must give is to allow those who cannot afford electricity to access energy without conditionalism, preventing situations of energy poverty. The NAP proposal aims to extend the current social energy tariff to all unemployment benefit situations, which will increase access to current 800 000 to more than one million families. We have thus made it possible for more than 200 000 families in Portugal to have access to a 34 % reduction in the price of their energy bill. But the NAP is committed to ensuring the reduction of the value of the energy bill for all people and this is not achieved with a universal drop in VAT, socially unfair measure because it distributes income to the richest and is environmentally wrong. The decrease in electricity bill is achieved with policies that ensure, on the one hand, the decrease in production costs with renewable sources and, on the other, with incentives to reduce energy consumption through a strong commitment to energy efficiency. For this reason, there are several solutions that we have presented, which will be voted on today, for example through a programme of financing for investments in energy efficiency, deductions within IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and IRC (tax on income of legal persons) or VAT on materials used to increase energy efficiency. We cannot have a speech in favour of decarbonisation and then take measures to reduce only the taxes on electricity production, which is still mostly obtained through greenhouse gas emissions. For the NAP, fighting climate emergency is not something to go on, it is not something that can be dependent on media holophotos, that connects to each summit or climate strike but shuts down immediately below. If doubts persist, this debate around electricity VAT also shows the inconsistency of those who insist on making the fight against climate emergency dependent on ideology. After all, from right to left, they all want the same: extract more, produce more, consume more, without rules, only for the purpose of claiming flags that carry a colossal weight on the planet and on future generations. On this subject and to compensate for the EUR 800 million per year of loss of revenue, the PSD does not want to freeze wages or prevent public investment and therefore announced that it would present an environmental tax package, which has not yet arrived. The NAP has the solution for the PSD and invites the PSD to make a positive link for the environment and to vote favourably a package of green taxation proposals, which guarantee a revenue of EUR 1000 million per year, passing through the end of the exemption of the ISP in energy production, a rate on kerosene in aviation, end the exemption on marine fuels, extend the carbon rate to livestock production, increase the water resource rate to water heaters in this country, increase the rate of waste management, the lowest in Europe, or even increase the VAT on hotel accommodation. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u93	Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, of the Liberal Initiative, has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: of the long, long vote in the specialty yesterday made clear the enormous love that the left has for taxes, even when this results in clear detriment to the interest of the Portuguese, especially of the younger ones. That is why of the more than 40 proposals from the Liberal Initiative, which aim to reduce or simplify taxes, my expectation is that they will be approved about zero, starting with the proposal for a single rate of IRS, which was yesterday in this House discarded with little rigour, perhaps to disguise the fact that we look at a little more attention than the European countries where there are single rate systems or two rates, which is what we proposed, there is more wealth, more development and less poor. Also in the local accommodation, and we have already spoken here, as much as Minister Pedro Nuno Santos embraces and lifts his voice, it is not true that the local accommodation has a logic equal to that of the rent, and it is even less true that the landlords of the local accommodation are rich. It is only prejudiced that the increase in successive years from 0, 15 % to 0, 50 % of the coefficient applied to these incomes is not a way of prejudice against the rich. And it must be because of this same prejudice against the rich and all that is private that have also refused, yesterday, the obvious and advantageous extensions to the private sector and the social sector of things that work, such as school social action, school textbooks and simple contracts in education, and, in the field of health, the extension of the SIGA SNS (Integrated System of Access Management in the National Health Service) of public providers also to private providers and social providers. It is only because of prejudice that you understand, just because you do not think this is in favour of the Portuguese, that you do not vote in favour of this. So, sadly, I conclude that there is a majority in this House who wants Portugal to continue to have less and less wealth while we will do everything to make Portugal less and less poor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u95	It is the turn of the Greens' intervention. Mrs Mariana Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We would like to highlight something that the Greens have put at the heart of the political debate, the question of the presence of asbestos in public buildings, the danger that this may constitute and also the appropriate solutions to the elimination of that risk. In the State Budget for 2020, another Green proposal will be made to ensure that the Government commits itself to a genuine and definitive asbestos removal programme and is obliged to disseminate and update, six-monthly, the listing of public and private property in the State domain and the property owned by public institutes and public enterprises in the business sector of the State containing asbestos. We know that the process of removal of materials containing fibrosis of public spaces, especially of schools and health structures, has not occurred with the speed to which governments have been obliged since 2011. Since 2011 which, from a Green initiative, Law No. 2 / 2011 provides for the detection, monitoring and removal of asbestos in public buildings. This law, in addition to other details, determined the completion of a survey of the presence of asbestos in public buildings, the listing of these buildings and their disclosure, as well as the realization of corrective actions, which include the removal of the material containing fibrosis, where the need for this intervention was evident. The listing of public buildings with asbestos is known, but the timing plan defined by the government for intervention in these buildings is not known. It is fair that professionals and all persons attending public buildings may have the information on the timing of the corrective actions planned. Many of the protests that have been assisted in the defence of public health and requiring the withdrawal of asbestos from public buildings, particularly from schools, are effectively linked to the absence of any information on planned interventions and the state of the situation, and, of course, with the desire to eradicate a danger with which professionals, students and users face daily. It is therefore important to stress the approval of this Green proposal, which will be of greatest importance for the regular information not only of the Assembly of the Republic but also of the populations, about what is to be done, when and where the removal of materials containing asbestos fibres will be carried out in public buildings, facilities and equipment. Thus the Government now abides by the deliberations of the Assembly of the Republic. [[PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u97	Mrs Emília Cerqueira, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again we see prejudice against the rural world. Yes, I am prejudiced because when we defend carbon rates by confusing fossil fuels with meat we cannot talk about anything other than 'prejudice'! And these are the partners with which the government makes coalitions. Although they speak in climate change every day, they opt to chum a proposal from the PSD that aims to exempt social security contributions and subsidized credit for companies and agricultural workers who are actually affected, in their production, by climate change. We are talking about the concern about climate change, but when it is to help the sector's agents, they vote against — see! Open... [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u99	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor now. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Yesterday's votes have given important achievements for people with disabilities, for which the Left Block is proud to have contributed. This was the case for the establishment of 30 days from the deferral of the financing of the support products for delivery or transfer of their financing. It was the case that the obligation was laid down for all public administration bodies to finally comply with what has been in law since 2006, which is the accessibility of persons with disabilities to all public buildings. Today we bring to the Plenary another basic claim of justice for these people: the specific needs of many disabled people lead to the need to acquire cars for, for example, transport wheelchairs that cannot be transferred to the car seats and are qualified as class 2 for the purpose of paying tolls. These cars need to be classified as Class 1 and that is the proposal we bring here. Step by step, thanks to the mobilization of disabled people, the path of their rights will be made here in the Assembly of the Republic. There are many more steps ahead of us, beginning with the decrease in the age of reform that there are those in this House who fear not to give, but for us, we do not give up. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u101	Mrs Diana Ferreira from the PCP has the floor. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Yesterday we approved in this House proposals from the CFP that respond to the problems of people with disabilities, a proposal that, together with the organizations representing people with disabilities, be defined conditions of access to reform for these people, considering their specificities and needs. A proposal was also approved to regulate the specific conditions for access to social benefits for inclusion ( PSI) by persons with disabilities who have an accident occurring in the context of functions related to protection and rescue missions, including firefighters and other civil protection agents, as well as a proposal for a revision to the SAPA ( Support Product Allocation System ), with the aim of ensuring, inter alia, the unburocratization of the allocation process of support products, by proposing the reduction of the delivery time of such products, the publication of the order defining the amounts for the prescribed entities in the first 90 days of each year, but also a budget allocation appropriate to the identified needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u103	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u104	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is important to go further in deepening and fulfilling the rights of people with disabilities, extending the PSI, ensuring the free multi-use attestation, but also eliminating the architectural barriers and many other persistent barriers. For all these situations, the CFP has proposals in this State budget. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u105	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to take advantage of two of the proposals that have been made today by the plenary. The first is about the expansion of the metropolitan area of Lisbon and the second is about the recovery programme of family and rural agriculture. On the expansion of the Lisbon metropolitan network, this is a proposal that comes to the meeting of what The Greens have been defending on this subject, which, in fact, has already deserved the presentation of legislative initiatives precisely in order to suspend the construction process of the circular line between the Sodré and Campo Grande, giving priority to what is, in fact, priority. And what, in our view, is priority, if the focus of concerns is the interest of the mobility of the populations of the metropolitan region of Lisbon, it is not, at all, the construction of the circular line but, yes, the expansion of the metropolitan network to Loures, as well as Alcântara and the western area of Lisbon. We therefore follow this proposal, which, by defining a strategic option, places the interests of the people in terms of mobility at the heart of the political decision. As regards the proposal for the recovery of family agriculture and the rural world, and as we have already had the opportunity to mention, the Family Agriculture Statute has already been legally enshrined, but we believe that it is of no use to have a statute enshrined in the law if it does not leave the role. A little further than we'll be talking about dead letters. That is why it is important to start realising, to give life to this status so that it can get out of the way, and that is what this proposal is trying to do, with the creation of the programme to enhance family and rural agriculture. I recall that the Greens also presented proposals in this State budget on this important issue, including a proposal for the creation of a decentralised network of free support and technical advice for farmers to whom the Family Agriculture Statute is recognised and another proposal providing for a specific social security scheme for family farming. We have put forward these proposals because we know well how important family farming is, not only at the level of our local production and our national production, not only at the level of the contribution to breaking regional asymmetries and combating the desertification of the interior, but also at the level of fire prevention, because, as we have already said, where there are people, where there is agricultural activity, there are fewer forest fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u107	Mr. André Ventura, from arrive, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: Today, we could be here explaining to people what we got yesterday for their benefit. One thing that became clear and very definite was that this government does not accept and this left-wing majority does not allow tax to be lowered in Portugal. And when we look at it, we see why: there is so much money to spend on so much, that, in fact, lower taxes is no solution. Today, we have other parties who come to appeal to a larger coalition, saying: "Pay these environmental taxes there! » And so we give them a strange name, about travels, etc. We have to say this: « They will pay more to fly. Let's pay! » ; « They will pay more to drive. Let's pay! ; « Stop on the gas pump. Supply! And they will tell you: "It is the highest price in Europe but they are environmental taxes! And then they say, "We pay more for gas oil in Portugal than in any other country when we stop to supply it. But we explain to people: "It is in the name of the great climate emergency! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u109	That's tomorrow, not today!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u110	In the name of the great climate emergency,... [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]] ... that same emergency which certainly does not exist in Denmark, Germany and many other countries in Europe. So the Portuguese pay more and more. I find it unbelievable that we can't say and assume to people that this is really what we're proposing to them. Today, the debate on VAT (tax on value added) from electricity to this House arrives. In view of purchasing power, Portugal has the most expensive electricity in the European Union. How is that possible? Oh, my God! The most expensive electricity in the European Union, taking into account purchasing power! Today, we're saying that we can't lower VAT. Why can't we? Climate emergency. Global climate action. Let's pay! They pay that the climate emergency here will be to satisfy your wallet, when the time comes, here will be to pay you the house expenses, the children, the books, here will be to pay you the food, here we will all be to pay. It's always the same! Last night, something else became clear. It was clear that the left-wing majority does not mind approving the withdrawal of powers to the Court of Auditors. It was clear that, when we talk about the creation of new residences by municipal chambers, we will withdraw from the Court of Auditors competences to monitor contracts and urban and student housing undertakings.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u111	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u112	It's not fake, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u113	Don't lie! Don't tell lies, or you have to be called a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u114	Now, who was out there seeing the great budget for combating transparency now sees that the Court of Auditors will have less competence to monitor contracts carried out by the government in these areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u115	Keep checking!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u116	In fact, one cannot understand what kind of budget this is. Something else became clear yesterday. It was clear that the left is able to join when necessary, in particular to take the families that have children in private school into social action and free manuals. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u117	Go sell golden visas!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u118	It was clear that the left is able to unite to prevent private school members from having the same rights as members of the public school. It's the purest truth! Yesterday it became clear again that they are capable of destroying families that have children in private schools. [[Protests of BE, PCP and PS Members.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you can scream, you can move, but the Portuguese saw the vote that took place yesterday...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u119	Go sell golden visas!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u120	... and they know well who is able to defend the teaching, all of it, and who sees only part of the teaching because of ideological prejudice and pure political prejudice. It's good that the parents and mothers of this country know who are next to them in defense of private school... [[That's a laugh from BE Mésos Ferreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u121	Private school defense? That's what he says to him!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u122	...and those who just want one thing, which is to destroy private school and destroy private education. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say that we are also a country in which the left is able to join for other things. I mean, the Socialist Party is not so much, because it seems that there are Members who will be forced to vote on the question of the tourdas, but there is no longer any grace that there is, after all, a 23 % VAT for the tourdas and that — imagine! — for example, for an erotic fair, 6 % of VAT is paid. [[PS laughter.]] It's a country on the contrary! It is a country on the contrary who today want to approve in this House. [[Congrats from PSD MP João Moura.]] Of course, I understand that there are those who prefer erotic fairs to bulldozers and I understand even... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u123	That's advertising to your romances!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u124	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to let Mr Ventura finish, because he is almost doing so. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u125	Can I finish or not? Can I finish or do you want to talk for me?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u126	Please, Mr. Deputy. Keep going.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, this House will be responsible for taking the first step towards the destruction of a historical art in Portugal. The first step will be taken today. In the future, we will be hostage to the NAP, when he tells us that we also have to ban and, perhaps, one day to arrest them, because they have been committing crimes against humanity for several decades.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u128	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u129	This House is going to take the first step today to make this happen. It's good that whoever's out there doesn't forget who destroyed the tours in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u130	You really have to finish, Mr. André Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u131	It has only one name: it was the left parties, this House and this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u132	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I'm going to talk about lawyers. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u134	There's a lot of noise in the hall. I would ask you to create conditions for Mrs Cecilia Meireles to intervene. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u135	I understand the work is being exhausting. That is why the CDS presented a set of proposals, focused and responsible, which could have been approved if there were will and the time needed for it. It was not the CDS who flooded this House with a rain of proposals, which led many of them to be approved in the evening, but it was the CDS that presented a specific tax relief in IRS for the middle class, which is not the one that families deserve but is what it is possible to do without leaving taxes for our children to pay. Unfortunately, the Socialist Party, which has now made great proclamations of responsibility, has decided to chum that proposal. It's a shame, because it was a very important sign that could have been given. I'd like to finish by saying that a lot of accusations have been made here. Mr. Secretary of State said that we should not interfere in the executive role, but, Mr. Secretary of State, the Socialist Party yesterday presented a proposal for access to women's personal hygiene goods. For Mr Secretary of State this is absolutely natural and it is the function of Parliament ; it has already discussed transport, which is financed by the taxes of all Portuguese, is not the function of Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u136	Mr. Secretary of State, you are governor of Portugal, you are no longer in the Chamber of Lisbon. Remember that! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u137	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as there are no more entries, we shall proceed to the vote on the rules we have just discussed. To do so, we have to check the quorum, so I ask the services to prepare the electronic framework for the ladies and gentlemen. Members may register. [[Pause.]] of the 5 Members I will list, whoever will be in favour of signing to the Bureau : Isabel Oneto, PS, Jerome de Sousa, PCP, João Piinho de Almeida, CDS-PP, Sérgio Sousa Pinto, PS, and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, PS. [[Pause.]] With no more presences to mark, 225 Mrs and Mrs are electronically registered. Ladies and gentlemen, we therefore have more than enough quorum to proceed to the vote on the rules avoked by the plenary. * We shall enter into the votes of the rules avoked by the plenary. We begin by voting on proposal 964 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add an article 101. o -A — Adjustment of the Cooperation Commitment for the Social and Solidarity Sector in 2020. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PS, BE, CDS-PP, CH and IL and abstentions from the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to Article 116. o — Granting of loans and other active operations. We shall vote on proposal 1012 - C, submitted by the PSD, adding paragraph 5 to Article 116. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and with abstentions from the PCP and the ENP.]] We now have proposal 370 - C, tabled by the CFP, to add Article 127. o -A — Resolution Fund. Let's vote on this proposal by numbers. We therefore vote paragraph 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from CH and IL.]] We shall vote on paragraph 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] The vote on paragraph 3 shall follow. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] We now vote on paragraph 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and IL were rejected, votes against BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and the CH abstention.]] We continue with the proposal 914 - C, submitted by the NAP, to add an article 127. o -A — Limitations on the application or use of public funds in credit institution. This proposal will also be voted on by its figures. Let us begin by voting on paragraph 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CH abstentions.]] We shall vote on paragraph 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CH abstentions.]] We now vote on paragraph 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CH abstentions.]] Finally, we shall vote on paragraph 4 of the proposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CH abstentions.]] The vote was followed by the vote on proposal 1074 - C, tabled by the Left Block, on the addition of Article 127. o -A — Resolution Fund. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD and CH and votes against BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, ENP, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected.]] We proceed with the vote on proposal 1225 - C, tabled by the CFP, which is an addition of 134. o -A — Letter of risk and interventions to safeguard and enhance cultural heritage. We shall vote separately on paragraphs 1 and 2. Let's start with paragraph 1. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PSD, BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against PS.]] We now vote on paragraph 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, CDS-PP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and IL abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 880 - C, submitted by the PSD, on the addition of Article 148. o -A — Support for agricultural enterprises affected by climate phenomena.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u138	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u139	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u140	Mr President, we also wanted to request that paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 of this proposal 880 - C be broken down, as voted in the Commission yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u141	It did not appear in the Bureau's vote script. We are going to disaggregate now, starting with the vote on paragraph 1 of proposal 880 - C. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH and the IL and abstentions by the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on paragraph 2 of the proposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the CH and abstentions against the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u142	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u143	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u144	Mr President, the CFP needs to correct the vote on paragraph 1 of the PSD proposal 880 - C. The vote on the CFP is in favour and not against.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u145	The Greens also asked to make the same amendment. Both amendments do not alter the outcome of the vote on the proposal. We shall then proceed to the vote on the proposal 814 - C, tabled by BE, of the addition of Article 162. o -A — Amendment to the Regulation of Scholarships for Higher Education Students in Order No 8442 -A / 2012. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, ENP and MP not included Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL abstaining.]] Article 169 is followed. o — Users registered by family doctor. We shall vote on proposal 920 - C, submitted by the PSD, adding paragraph 2 to the same Article 169. The proposal of the law. Mrs. Members, first of all, we have to vote for an amendment to paragraph 1 of this proposal, which has only now reached the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u146	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u147	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u148	Mr President, we do not have this amendment in the vote script.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u149	It's not in the script. A few minutes ago, the request was delivered to the Bureau before we voted on the addition of Article 169 (2) to Article 169. the proposal for a law, we shall vote on an amendment to paragraph 1, submitted by the PSD. Please, Mr. Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u150	Mr President, with your permission, this is not a replacement but an error in preparing the vote script. Our proposal amends paragraph 1 and adds a paragraph 2 and therefore both votes must be taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u151	All right. So let's do the two separate votes. Let us first vote on proposal 920 - C submitted by the PSD amending Article 169 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u152	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u153	Please, but we have to be effective. It's not time for interventions.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u154	Mr President, for now, I think there is a delay. The PSD proposal, in fact, has a text for paragraph 1, but it is the reproduction of what is in the proposed law...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u155	It's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u156	Isn't it? Oh, my God! So, what's the difference?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u157	... therefore, do not alter the wording. The addition of paragraph 2 is that it is indeed an addition.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u158	Mr President, even if it does not change anything, we shall vote on proposal 920 - C of the PSD, as amended by Article 169 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u159	Mr President, I am sorry, but I need to know whether paragraph 1 is the same as the bill, because otherwise we are bringing the bill down. We need to understand what we are voting on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u160	Mr Duarte Pacheco, now, can you help, after you have tabled this small amendment?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u161	Mr President, with your permission, I shall read Article 169 ( 1 ). the proposed law and paragraph 1 of the PSD proposal. Article 169 ( 1 ). the proposal for a law reads as follows: « 1 - In 2020, the Government takes the appropriate measures to achieve the goal that all users have an assigned family health team » ; proposal 920 - C of the PSD says : « 1 - In 2020, the Government takes the appropriate measures to achieve the goal that all users have an assigned family health physician. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It's slightly different.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u162	It's different. Obviously it's different.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u163	And it is not just slightly different in content, Mr President, it is much more than that.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u164	I'm starting from the principle that a health team has a doctor, but in any case, you never know. You never know! [[Laughing.]] We shall vote on proposal 920 - C of the PSD, in part by amending Article 169 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and the abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u165	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u166	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u167	Mr President, since the proposal tabled by the PSD amending paragraph 1 has been rejected, I suggest that Article 169 ( 1 ) be voted on. The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u168	I do not have here in the script the vote on paragraph 1 of the bill, but we shall vote on Article 169 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall vote on proposal 920 - C, submitted by the PSD, in the part in which Article 169 (2) is added. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL and abstentions against the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We shall vote on proposal 934 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add Article 169. o -A — Contractualization with private entities for the provision of health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u169	Mr President, if I may, before we move on to that vote, the plenary rejected the proposal for an addendum to Article 169 (2). the proposal for a law, therefore we have to vote on Article 169 ( 2 ). that of the bill, as it is in the script.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u170	So let us vote on Article 169 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the PS, PCP and ENP abstained from PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN, CH and IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were approved.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on proposal 934 - C, submitted by the PSD, on the addition of Article 169. o -A — Contractualization with private entities for the provision of health care. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the NAP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL were rejected.]] We shall vote on proposal 600 - C, submitted by the NAP, to add Article 179. o -A — Investments in the Metropolitan of Lisbon. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention from the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall vote on proposal 7 - C2, submitted by the CFP, in the part where a paragraph 2 is added to Article 181. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We shall now vote on proposal 1080 - C2, submitted by BE, in the part in which it adds paragraph 2 to Article 181. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] We shall vote on proposal 7 - C2, submitted by the CFP, in the part where paragraph 3 is added to Article 181. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] We shall vote on proposal 1080 - C2, submitted by BE, in the part where paragraph 3 is added to Article 181. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] We shall vote on proposal 7 - C2, submitted by the CFP, in the part where paragraph 4 is added to Article 181. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall vote on proposal 1080 - C2, submitted by BE, in the part where a paragraph 4 is added to Article 181. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] We shall vote on proposal 7 - C2, submitted by the CFP, in the part where paragraph 5 is added to Article 181. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and IL were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall vote on the proposal 7 - C1, submitted by the CFP, amending Article 181. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the IL and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] We shall vote on the proposal 1080 - C1, submitted by BE, amending Article 181. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the IL and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CH.]] Article 181. that of the bill is damaged. We shall vote on proposal 1189 - C, tabled by the CFP, to add Article 182. o -A— Expansion of the Lisbon Metropolitan Network. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the NAP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PS and the abstention of the IL.]] We shall vote on proposal 446 - C, submitted by the NAP, adding an article 183. o -A — Enlargement of the social rate in energy. Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u171	Mr President, the PS Parliamentary Group had asked for this vote to be broken down, i.e. we intend to vote first on Article 183 ( 1 ) and ( a ) and then on Article 183 ( b ) and ( c ). o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u172	We shall then vote on Article 183 ( 1 ) and Article 183 ( a ). o -A, contained in proposal 446 - C, submitted by the NAP. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP abstention were adopted.]] We shall vote on Article 183 ( b) and ( c ). o -A, contained in proposal 446 - C. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall vote on proposal 873 - C1, submitted by the NAP, in the part in which Article 184 ( 1 ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP and IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and CH.]] We shall vote on proposal 1160 - C2, tabled by the CFP, amending Article 184 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, CDS-PP, the NAP, the CH, the IL.]] We shall vote on proposal 1160 - C1, submitted by the CFP, supplementing Article 184 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL.]] We shall vote on Article 184 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall vote on Article 184 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP and the non-registered MEP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the CDS-PP, the CH and the IL.]] We shall vote on proposal 1160 - C2, tabled by the CFP, amending Article 184 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the IL.]] We shall vote on Article 184 ( 3 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the IL.]] We shall vote on Article 184 (4). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We shall vote on Article 184 ( 5 ( a ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the IL.]] We shall vote on proposal 625 - C1, submitted by BE, in the part in which it amends Article 184 ( 5 ( b ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PS, PSD were rejected, votes in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We shall vote on Article 184 ( 5 ( b ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN, the ENP, the CH and the non-registered Member of Parliament Joacine Katar Moreira and the abstentions of the PSD, BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 625 - C1, submitted by BE, in the part in which Article 184 ( 5 ( c ) is amended. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PSD were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and CDS-PP and IL abstentions.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on Article 184 ( c ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PAN and the ENP and the abstentions of the PSD, the BE, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 1160 - C1, submitted by the CFP, in the part where a new paragraph 5 is added to Article 184. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstention from PSD, CDS-PP and IL.]] We shall then vote on the body of Article 184 ( 5 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the ENP and the CH and the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira.]] We turn to the vote on Article 184 ( 6 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on Article 184(7). The proposal of the law. [[The vote was taken in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP, the NAP, the CH and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the IL.]] We passed the vote on proposal 250 - C, submitted by the ENP, to add Article 184 ( 8 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PSD, BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We now vote on proposal 625 - C2, submitted by BE, in the part where paragraph 8 is added to Article 184. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We shall vote on proposal 873 - C2, submitted by the NAP, in the part in which paragraph 8 is added to Article 184. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH, IL and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We shall vote on proposal 962 - C, submitted by the PS, to add Article 184 ( 8 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PAN, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD, the PCP, the CDS-PP, the ENP and the CH.]] The vote on Article 184 ( 8 ) shall therefore be adversely affected. The proposal of the law. We shall then proceed to the vote on proposal 625 - C2, submitted by BE, in the part where paragraph 9 is added to Article 184. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PAN, PEV, CH and Member of Parliament not included Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, PCP, CDS-PP and IL.]] With no objection, we shall vote together on the proposals for the addition of Article 184 ( 9 ) and Article 184 ( 10 ). the bill, contained in proposal 873 - C2, submitted by the NAP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of the PCP, the PAN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and abstentions from PSD, BE, CDS-PP and ENP.]] We shall vote on proposal 1160 - C1, submitted by the CFP, in the part in which a paragraph 10 is added to Article 184. The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL.]] With no objection, we shall vote together on the proposals for the addition of Article 184 ( 11 ) and Article 184 ( 12 ). the law proposal, contained in proposal 1160 - C1, submitted by the PCP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, PAN, PEV, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and IL.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 284 - C, tabled by the CFP, for the addition of Article 194. o -A— Program to enhance family and rural agriculture. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and IL were rejected in favour of BE, PCP, ENP, CH and non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira and PSD, CDS-PP and PAN abstentions.]] We are now voting on proposal 305 - C, submitted by BE, to add an article 201. o -A— Change in classifications for the payment of tolls for people with disabilities. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the PEN, the PEN, the CH, the IL and the non-registered Member Joacine Katar Moreira and the PSD and CDS-PP abstentions.]] We turn to proposal 1124 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, to add an article 203. o -A — Solutions for pending questions concerning Portuguese citizens resident in the former overseas territories, between 25 April 1974 and the date of full transfer of sovereignty to the new governments of the successor States. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the ENP and the non-registered MP Joacine Katar Moreira were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP, the PAN, the CH and the IL and the PSD abstention.]] So we have reached the end of this second item on the agenda. I ask Vice-President José Manuel Pureza to replace me on the third item on the agenda, which, as you know, will also be exciting. We shall begin the debate, in the specialty, by Article 128. that of the bill, which was last night. However, as no one is registered, we are now discussing Article 213. o — Amendment to the Tax Code on Added Value, for which there are several Members. Member States. To that end, Mr Duarte Alves of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The CFP was the first party to submit a proposal to amend the State budget by 2020 which reduces electricity VAT. When this proposal is voted on, and will be the first to be voted on, each party will have the opportunity to express its vote on light VAT. The Left Block has already announced its vote in favour. The PS will have the opportunity to tell the Portuguese whether it is consistent with their 2011 position, when the PSD/CDS government increased the VAT on electricity and natural gas from 6 % to 23 % at the time the PS voted against that increase.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u174	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u175	The PSD will have the opportunity to tell the Portuguese whether or not it is consistent with their electoral programme and what you have said about this issue in recent times. When proposal 13 - C of the CFP is voted, each party will have an opportunity to express its vote on this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u176	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u177	in a country that has the most expensive energy tariffs in Europe, who is against? In a country where hundreds of thousands of Portuguese don't adequately heat their houses, who is against?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u178	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u179	Who is against this measure of the most basic social justice, charging electricity and gas as essential goods that are? This does not subject sovereign decisions on a Portuguese tax code to any VAT committee, which no one has elected, of the European Union; without promoting, as the Government does, power subcontracting; without further delay, because this is a measure that is imposed in a country where energy is too expensive, both in electricity and in gas. The PCP took the initiative. Let's not waste this opportunity. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u180	Mr Telmo Correia now speaks of the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: With regard to this article, I would like to stress something that has already been discussed, the question of VAT for tourists. This to say that, more than the caricature of a supposed reversal of values, the truth is that, for us, touradas are an ancient tradition in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u183	... they are a respectable tradition, they are a show and, for those who live in the field — tourists, peasants, bulls creators — they are also a way of life. Therefore, this is an obvious attack on a form of life and on a reality that is embraced in our rural world. And why does this happen? It is good to say, Mr President, that, more than a matter of values, the result of a negotiation, a budget barge, transforming the State budget into a case-by-case negotiation. The NAP cannot make most of its proposals worth it, and some of them could make sense, and then it needs its medal to say "we have come to enable this government" — a government that does nothing of what your agenda would be — the change of this condemnation and criticism of a form of spectacle. This is what is unacceptable to us, and that is why we propose that there should not be this increase in VAT on peas. On the other hand, there is here a second issue which seems to us to be more important than this and which is almost constitutional. That is to say, this show is allowed and there is a VAT for all shows, for those mentioned here and for others. There is a generic value of VAT for all shows, but there is a show that is negatively discriminated against here, that of the tourdas. And why is it negatively discriminated against? For a matter of taste, i.e. we have reached the point of VAT of taste! And the taste is that of who rules, it is the taste of who commands, of who decides. It is a kind of dictatorship of taste, so to speak, which for us is absolutely unacceptable. The Minister of Culture has said, a few years ago, that the question of the tourdas and the VAT of the tourdas was a civilizational one. Now, if it were indeed a civilizational issue, the way would be to ban the show. There are those who defend it—as we know, the CDS is strictly against any form of prohibitionism—but that is not what it does. What you do is try to discriminate against you negatively through VAT. Knowing the public interventions of the Minister for Culture and also knowing many of the speeches of the Secretary of State for Culture, I admit that the Minister for Culture will be at a higher stage of civilization to which I and many common Portuguese people, who, despite all of them, find the bullfighting a natural and respectable fact, have not been able to access. But what we can demand is that this stage, this higher level of civilization which Mr. Minister and Mr. Secretary of State have achieved, should not be imposed on other Portuguese people, who do not want to impose it in such a discriminatory way, against an ancient and traditional art, against a spectacle that, curiously, may become more elite, but will win, year after year, spectators in our country. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u184	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us turn to the discussion of Article 214. o — Amendment to List I annexed to the VAT code of the proposed law. You have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr António Ventura.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has put forward a proposal to cancel the cultural exclusion that this government is making to Tauromakia.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u187	We propose to maintain VAT at 6 %, because the Portuguese legal framework considers that the tours are Portuguese cultural heritage, so the government cannot be an outlaw. We propose to keep VAT at 6%, because most of our people are in favour of bulldozers, so we will respect the majority, as the majority respects the will of minorities. We propose to maintain VAT at 6 %, because tourists have to be recognised in the historical course of our people and in their current economic and social benefit, or Portugal is no longer Portugal. The Tauromachy, in Portugal, sets people inside, maintains animal and environmental diversity. It is economic and it will always be tradition, history, heritage and culture. We will never surrender to anyone who wants to erase these facts or do personal wills. We'll never give up on those who hide behind an increase in tax to get rid of the towers. It's cowardice! [[All right! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u188	At this time, the question is whether this Parliament is going to surrender to some or whether it will respect the people and the law. at this moment, the question posed — turning to the PS Members — is whether the deputies elected by the districts, municipalities and cities with a strong implementation and Taurine root... [[All right! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u189	... will respect those who have elected them, who have given them the mandate or will yield to the will of the party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u190	At this point, Mrs Inês de Sousa Real has the floor of the PAN.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what a strange way of life this would be, in fact, to congratulate ourselves on mistreating an animal! [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u192	Tauromachy is one of the most barbaric forms of violence against animals — we do not fail! — however they try to bleach this activity. Unfortunately, and for our historic embarrassment, that is not what we are discussing today in this Parliament; we are only discussing a measure of the most basic fiscal justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u193	That is to discriminate positively!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u194	But if today's debate is about the abolition of bullfighting, we could not forget that traditions, in the same way as they are formed, are also lost, they also get rid of our culture, recovering cultural and temporal phenomena that we want to transmit to future generations. Once again, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, how strange it would be if we wanted to transmit to future generations a culture of animal suffering and torture!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u195	Negotiated!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u196	We would certainly have an anomaly here in terms of cultural and civilizational values! In fact, it is seen that the same country that ranks films for more than 18 years, is the same country that allows children over 3 years of age to enter bull markets, in contrast with what the United Nations Commission on the Rights of the Child (United Nations) has already urged Portugal to do, in order to keep children and young people away from the violence of bullomacy. [[Protests by PS Pedro do Carmo.]] During the discussion of this State budget, we have often heard that there is no money for health, transportation, housing or even security forces. The EUR 6 million that the state will be able to charge for this activity, to add to the value that we would charge if we withdrew the exemption that exists for Tauromachic artists, would be a value that would give,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u197	...for example, to buy vests for security forces or, then, to wager in the fight against corruption or to correct domestic violence needs. [[Protests from PS and PSD Members.]] We didn't hear the ladies. Members to rise against this or when, yesterday, the increase of 1 % of VAT for cultural activities has been dropped! [[PSD, CDS-PP and PS Pedro do Carmo Member Protests.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today we take a minimum step to correct a social injustice and we congratulate ourselves on finally seeing the Socialist Party and the other political forces go along with us in this wish, because we would very strange that a humanist party would actually be alien to animal suffering. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u198	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u199	Mr President, I am sorry, I would just like to remind Mrs Inês de Sousa Real that, if she wants money for the security forces' collections, she has an excellent option: to vote in favour of the CDS proposal, to cut the spending of the ministerial offices in EUR 20 million. You don't have to spy on the Portuguese with more taxes! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u200	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we shall then proceed to the discussion of Article 215. o — Addition to List I annexed to the VAT Code. To that end, Mr Fernando Anastácio of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The Budget is in fact an exercise of political choices, but it is also an exercise which, to be credible, has no responsibility. Directly on the issue, it can be said that the proposals of the PSD, the Left Block and the PCP, regarding the reduction of electricity VAT, are environmentally irresponsible and socially unfair because they do not have the condition of progressiveity since economically more vulnerable consumers already benefit from the social rate of electricity. [[PSD Member Protests Paulo Neves.]] In this regard, I recall that in 2013 there were 80 000 families covered by the social tariff. With this government, and since 2016, it has increased from 80,000 family aggregates to 800,000 family aggregates. Today, more than 1 million people benefit from this discount. In the previous legislation, the electricity tariff decreased by 8 %, 3 % of its price, contrary to what happened in Europe in the same period in which it increased by 6 %. This is a reality and that is what the reduction of electricity tariff does precisely, reaching values and imposing the contribution to the tariff deficit. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD measure in particular does not fall within the basis of the VAT Directive, is not neutral, violates the principle of equality and legality, creates distortions in competition. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on this path, and contrary to the solution found by the Social Democratic Party, the Government — and well! — sought to ensure precisely the possibility of progressive VAT terms, to invite the European Commission to announce changes in the rate of VAT in electricity so as to reduce it by consumption, allowing greater progress, encouraging energy efficiency and promoting fairer taxation with the application of this reduction, contrary to the solutions proposed here. The PSD proposal has a tax impact, a reduction in tax revenue of EUR 334 million and therefore, as this is an exercise of responsibility, the question that needs to be asked to the PSD is the following: how do you want to find a responsible solution? But more than that, in fact, the solutions that have already been put forward here, i.e. reducing spending on health, education, are not socially sustainable solutions, so I end with a proposal and an invitation to Mr Rui Rio and the PSD: you have the opportunity to step back so that you will not be in that picture but the remake of the teacher case. Do so accordingly, and the Portuguese will certainly appreciate it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u202	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The government has been providing us with successive budgets that exacerbate the tax burden on Portuguese. We have a record tax burden — this is a fact that any indicator, including UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit), confirms. The Social Democratic Party believes that a sign of a reduction in the tax burden must be given to the Portuguese. We, as a responsible party, had to make choices. We could have opted for another tax. It could be IRC, it could be IRS, it could be ISP ( tax on oil and energy products ). However, we know that, with responsibility, it is not possible to reduce all taxes simultaneously.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u204	Well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u205	So we have opted for electricity VAT, because we are aware that it is the tax that affects the generality of Portuguese families. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u206	That is where we want to reach Portuguese families, reducing their monthly turnover at the cost of electricity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u207	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u208	We have made this proposal so that it will have an impact by 2020. We are accompanied by other parties to this objective and we are also accompanied by the government that says it wants to promote this reduction. Now, here, one of the two: either the government is in good faith and even wants to reduce the cost of energy to Portuguese in 2020, and then it is obliged to tell us how much it planned budgetary impact on that measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u209	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u210	In other words, you have to tell us that, in this budget, you expect this measure to have an impact of EUR 20, 30, 40, 50 or 100 million. There you go, ladies. Members of the government, let's talk to see if our proposal is accommodated or not. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u211	So, either we have a serious discussion about what they expect is the impact of your proposal, or, then, you are doing theatre, you're bad faith, you want to throw sand into the eyes of the Portuguese people, saying that they want to reduce electricity VAT, but, as they predicted, they don't expect any reduction in 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u213	If you were in bad faith, if you did not accommodate anything, then, and because we are responsible, we present another proposal whose aim is the same, the reduction of VAT, but with counterparts so that the budget balance of 0, 2 % is not affected.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u214	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u215	That's our goal. What are the counterparties? Let's show three. We have not only the largest Government of democracy but the most expensive Government of democracy in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u216	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u217	You have increased your spending from last year to this year only for your offices in EUR 8 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u218	It's true! [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u219	And what the Portuguese have to know is whether you prefer to spend more EUR 8 million on you or lower their energy cost. That's a question left! [[PSD applause.]] You are exacerbating, increasing intermediate consumption by 2, 9 % and we say that intermediate consumption increases, that increase one point above inflation, and that therefore limits the hiring of consultants that give so many millions to lawyers'offices and to other types of consultants from Lisbon and Porto. If they do that too, we will find that counterpart. [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u220	It's the electric shock!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u221	Finally, I am presenting a third counterpart, because in addition the accounts that give us a balance above 0, 2 % with which we are committed. We can, too, go get the third match.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u223	We are available for this because we want to make our proposal viable. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be sad, and the Portuguese would not forgive us, if each of the parliamentary groups, in this House, were to become a refugee in political and party play, making successive proposals impossible for everything to remain in it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u224	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u225	We are available, always said, to find solutions. I hope the others are, too. If so, who will win is not the PSD, it is not the PCP, it is not the Left Block, it is not the Green Block, neither the CDS, nor the Arrival, nor the Liberal Initiative, nor perhaps the PS, it is the Portuguese that will pay less with the cost of energy, already this year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u226	You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Pacheco, I want to tell you that it is sad that I look at the PSD. [[PSD protests.]] The PSD, in this budgetary debate, meets all the limits I have imagined. From the nationalisation of day-care facilities to the suspension of works in the Lisbon metro and now to the treatment of VAT according to which it has done so, the PSD has crossed all limits. I think it is very important that we ensure that VAT is a tax on consumption and that it is not intended to burden operators. And, as a tax it is, it has a very diversified set of fees. VAT rates cannot be discussed here as if we were discussing a Sporting-Benfica or a question of taste. VAT rates should be discussed with another responsibility. [[PSD protests.]] When the Members and the Members Members should also bear in mind that the most relevant component of tax expenditure has to do with the reduced VAT rates. I therefore think that it is very appropriate to make this reflection on how we use the reduced rates and how we legislate them. But let us, in particular, go to this issue of electricity VAT, to say and reaffirm again the following: the electoral programme with which the Socialist Party has presented the elections and with which it has won them no change in the VAT of electricity. [[PSD protests.]] Secondly, in the Government Programme, which the Government submitted to the Assembly of the Republic, following its election and having a support bench with 108 Members, did not provide for the VAT of electricity. [[PSD protests.]] What we anticipate in our Government Programme is a four-pillar development strategy in the country, one of the key pillars of combating climate change. [[PSD protests.]] In view of this framework and what is known of the positions of various parties, the government understood to look at this reality and take its step. First point: parties, and the PSD in particular want to lower energy VAT, why are they concerned about the price of energy? Well, according to Eurostat, between 2016 and 2019, the energy price in Portugal fell 9 %, by contrast to the rise of 5 % in the other countries of the European Union. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the concern should not be the question of the price of energy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u228	Keep getting more expensive!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u229	Does the problem and the issue they pose relate to energy poverty? Well, today, you have dropped the expansion of the social electricity tariff, the same rate that since 2016 has allowed us to pass from 70,000 beneficiaries to more than 800 000 beneficiaries. Therefore, the PSD is not concerned about energy poverty, because not only does it not look at this reality of the past as today—it was not yesterday, it was today! — increased the social rate of electricity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u230	The PS too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u231	Mr President, we have a very consistent strategy for reducing energy costs, which is also reflected not only in increasing the capacity to produce renewable energy but also in the injections we have made in the tariff deficit for the reduction of tariffs. Therefore, the extent to which we have presented has to do with what we understand makes sense, which is to contribute to a rationalization of energy consumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u232	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u233	We are challenging the VAT rules and therefore we are asking for the European Commission's political support for the same measure, which must be modeled, worked and implemented. We're not selling cats for hare, sir! We have come here with legislative authorization and with accurate information to the Members and to the Members. Members that the legal framework conditions of the VAT Directive are complex, but that we have solutions. Therefore, within the framework of what will be the modeling of the measure and when it can be implemented, we will see, at that time, the conditions we will have to achieve it. That is why, Mr Duarte Pacheco, we have already said, but I repeat again, in the House of Democracy, that this legislative authorization has not associated an inscription and a budget allocation precisely because we are still working with the European Commission to achieve the terms of its application and, in this sense, we will have to see the time and how it should be implemented. It is very clear what we are doing, Mr President. But, Mr President, I would also like to say the following: you have an obligation to say, responsibly, how you want to compensate for this measure which you intend to have approved. It is because you are concerned about the price of energy, not because you are concerned about energy poverty, but simply because you are concerned about energy poverty, I think, Mr, because you are more concerned about the congress going on this weekend. I think that's what the gentlemen are doing. Ladies and gentlemen are worried... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] If that were not the concern, I would never hear from the mouth of the honourable Member, for whom I have great respect, talk about compensation for measures with the cabinets of the members of the Government, because that, Mr, is on the right side of Parliament. That is far more to the right of Parliament, Mr President, that is populism! As it is also populism to say that it will make compensation with intermediate consumption, Mr. Member, with those state fats... Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, have you been in an adjustment programme for four years and have you not cut all the fats in the state? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u234	Mr President, it is in your health that you want to cut the current expenditure. This is because you know that 50% of intermediate consumption is spent on the National Health Service, this National Health Service that you say on Monday that you are impoverished and on Tuesday already want to cut in intermediate consumption? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And it's on the balance, Mr. Deputies? Is it on the balance? Is it going back to the past, sir? Oh, my God! Is it breaking down the sacrifices? Oh, my God! Do you know what the surplus is, sir? The surplus is less taxed for young people in this country in the future! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I do not believe, Mr Member, that the Social Democratic Party has become populism, that it wants to cut into the National Health Service and mortgage the future of the next generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I would like to assume here our commitment to trying to implement a VAT measure of electricity that supports one of the pillars of the Government Programme, which is the pillar of the fight against climate change. We will continue to reduce the tariff deficit, continue to invest in combating energy poverty, but there is one thing we will not give in to: we will not give in to populism or immediacy. We are committed to the future of the next generation and that is why we have this proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u235	On this subject, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block has made an intermediate proposal for the approximation of the Government's position on electricity VAT. This proposal was systematically rejected. The government has preferred this position of intransigence, which allows it to dramatize this process, which, in fact, seems to us to be meaningless and without reason. In view of this, we have also announced, and without surprise, that the Block will vote in favour of all the proposals that come down to electricity VAT. This is because we believe that the measure is fair, but also because it corresponds to our political and electoral mandate. We cannot, however, and we have already said so, vote on proposals which, as compensation, impose blind cuts on public services. And there is a proposal in particular for cuts of EUR 98 million in intermediate consumption that has this effect and therefore cannot be accepted by the Left Block. There are, however, a number of other compensations, which the Block has already submitted, which are equivalent, or more than equivalent, to the various VAT drop-off proposals on the table. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing new, nothing in the sleeve, the Block's proposal is very clear, it is very transparent, and we want to reassess it at this stage of the debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u237	Mr Andre Ventura has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u238	Mr President, Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, populism, let's see. I have before me a news from 2011, where we read the following: « It was approved in the Committee on Economic Affairs unanimously today, the report... » – imagine who! ... — «... by Antonio José Seguro (...) », which said they were fundamental cuts in electricity bill. As far as I know, Antonio José Seguro wasn't on either side, he was on his side. Now it's not going anymore, but that's actually history. In 2013 it was the Socialist Party that proposed the reduction of VAT in electricity. So, where were the environmental friends at that time? Where were the friends of the working class, the replacement of income, when in 2011 and 2013 they proposed the reduction of VAT in electricity? Oh, my God! Incoherence! This has only one name: incoherence! Portugal, Mr Secretary of State, could even reduce VAT by 30 % because, given our purchasing power, we would continue to have this strange situation of being the country which pays the most in terms of VAT for electricity. And this, yes, should embarrass the government. But we also wanted to say something very simple to the Socialist Party and the Government: it is enough of this constant victimization to say that we are going to elections for everything and nothing. If it is the question of teachers, the government will resign, if it is the question of VAT in electricity, the government will resign. This to see if the gentlemen on the left are filled with fear. Yeah, we're not afraid! When the government wants elections, we're going to the elections!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u239	He's looking forward to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u240	There is no fear of elections, no fear of listening to the Portuguese! There is one thing I say to you: the question of teachers may have given you a small package, but there is no Portuguese to look at this matter and say "Ah! I'll pay more VAT in electricity, but it's because we're in the big climate struggle." There is none, Mr. Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u241	Mr President, I would ask you to finish because you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u242	I will finish, Mr. President. You know why, Mr. Secretary of State? Because the Portuguese think so: « if even the Socialist Party, which is government, wanted to lower the VAT of electricity twice, why does it not want now? Do not keep on seeking. ” This has only one name: political incoherence and calculation!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u243	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u244	The Portuguese won't accept it! We shall vote in favour, Mr President, of all the proposals calling for the reduction of VAT in electricity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u245	You have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Fernando Anastácio.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party, of course, intends to reduce the VAT of electricity and, as such, has this matter in the bill. Mr Duarte Pacheco made a reference here to the responsibility, to the meeting of positions, to a sustainable solution, but the PSD did not cease to present two proposals, one of which, in fact, does not speak of any compensation, simply limiting itself to proposing the reduction of VAT, and the other has your option on compensation. So the very direct questions I ask you are: will you first withdraw the proposal which has no reference to compensation? Secondly, what will they do if the said compensations for you are not approved by this Parliament? It was important for the Portuguese to know where the Democratic Social Party actually wants to do such negotiation and compensation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u247	You have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Secretary of State : Allow me only to recall the following. First, the Portuguese did not give the Socialist Party the absolute majority. I don't know if you have that perception. They voted in the Socialist Party about 36% of the Portuguese, meaning that 64% of the Portuguese do not appear in the electoral programme presented by the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u249	And it sends humility to respect the will of Parliament. This means that if Parliament has a different option, in the majority, it is not doing anything against the Portuguese. He is, yes, taking revenge on a majority position that the Portuguese want to see. This is the first note. [[PSD applause.]] Secondly, we are in favour of reducing the price of energy and we are in favour of reducing the price of energy for all, including the middle class, which has been so badly treated by this government. That is why we make this proposal, because we consider it to be fair. And now it is much more responsible to do so today, presenting counterpartes than during the adjustment process, in which your colleague, Secretary of State for Energy, presented in this House draft resolutions to defend the reduction of VAT on electricity, accompanied by Minister Eduardo Cabrita. [[PSD applause.]] By the way, Mr Secretary of State, allow me to say that we do not propose to reduce intermediate consumption. We propose that they grow by 2 %, i.e. above the projected inflation. And, if you want to, it makes the health services grow the 2, 9 % that you want and the rest to grow at the level of inflation, which still remains the average of 2 % that we are proposing - therefore, without affecting the National Health Service. [[PSD applause.]] Finally, our proposal does not fall within the budget balance of 0,2 % which is presented. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, it remains to be noted that we are proposing the reduction of VAT by 2020. In its 9 minutes of intervention, one thing was clear: you have entered zero in the Budget for this purpose and therefore do not intend to implement this measure during 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u250	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u251	Which means they're fooling the Portuguese! But we want and are committed, until the last minute, to reducing electricity VAT for Portuguese families by 2020. And we are going to do so with the support of all the Members who want to be with the Portuguese and not exactly in political-party games. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u252	The next intervention on this point is Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: This debate on low electricity VAT is a very serious debate and I would therefore like to ask a few questions to understand what can happen today in the afternoon. The CDS has always been very clear: our priority is to free families from the greatest tax burden ever. We believe that this should be done through the IRS and therefore we have presented a feasible and affordable proposal in this area which the Socialist Party has led. The PSD proposal provides for compensation which may or may not be approved. What I would like to understand is what many Portuguese must have been asking: if this compensation is not approved, what happens to the PSD's VAT discount proposal? Does it remain uncompensated or does it not stay?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u254	Good question! That is actually a good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u255	I believe that this is the fundamental issue, because alternative compensation involving increased taxation keeps the tax burden, or even makes it worse. Therefore, if the aim is to free the Portuguese from the greatest tax burden, compensation necessarily has to be a cut in expenditure. If the parties on the left drop the cut in expenditure and compensation, what do I want to know, after all, is what happens to the PSD proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u256	Mr. Secretary of State for Energy, João Galamba, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to remind the PSD of what happened in the year you mentioned.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u258	We know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u259	What happened in the year mentioned was that there was an adjustment programme negotiated by the Socialist Party, the PSD and the CDS, which included the increase of electricity VAT to 13 %. What the Socialist Party did that year was what it did in all the measures in which the PSD and CDS went beyond the troika. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u260	What happened, honourable Member, was the consistent position of the PS throughout this legislature in all the measures in which you decided to go beyond the troika. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, I now report what we have done in this matter and in many others. And we did something else: when we entered the government at the end of 2015, what was planned for electricity in Portugal, agreed by you, was the maintenance of electricity VAT at 23% and the increase in electricity prices every year. What has the Government of the Socialist Party, with the parliamentary support of the CFP, BE and Greens, done over the past four years? It was to reverse the policy that you had left! Portugal has managed to reduce the price of electricity by about 9 % with the policies that we have defended, and that you did not want to, at the same time as in the rest of Europe it has always increased. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, do not say that the price of electricity has not fallen! It has fallen because of the policies that this government and the previous government have implemented, but it would never have come down with the policies that you have defended and continue to defend. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u261	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to leave two notes only. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I am not going to say anything that I have not said on behalf of the Democratic Social Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u263	Answer the basic question!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u264	Our proposal will not be put to the vote, however, because the principle of responsibility has always been present since the beginning of its preparation.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u265	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u266	Yeah, yeah! Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u267	But I would also like to tell you the following: until the end of this work, we are available to replace our proposal with another one which, according to the sensitivity of this House, maintains counterpart and can receive majority support. This is because we are truly committed to looking for compromises so that Portuguese will benefit from cheaper energy by 2020. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Member Protests António Gameiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u268	In connection with this point, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Duarte Pacheco: I wanted to see if I understood correctly and if what we are discussing has any useful effect. The Left Block has already said that it does not approve PSD compensation. So if you don't approve them, what I understand is that all this discussion will end up in nothing. Is that it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u270	No, no! There is the PCP proposal to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u271	It's just about this one!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u272	That's between you!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u273	With no further inscriptions, you have the floor to close the debate on this point, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Pacheco : I think in my initial speech I have had the opportunity to say that the Parliamentary Group that supports the Government has 108 Members. Knowing that Parliament has 230 Members, it does not ignore you that I was well aware that the party that supports the government does not have an absolute majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u275	But it doesn't look like it! Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u276	I also had the opportunity to say that we did not have this issue of VAT in the electoral programme and then we did not put it in the Government programme, even though we realized that there were several parties who had this understanding. We believe that it is socially unfair to lower the cost of electricity through VAT. We believe that we should do so through or through the social energy tariff, as we have been doing, or through the reduction of sales tariffs to the public with injections into the tariff deficit. But we looked at our Government Programme and the challenge of climate change and saw a huge opportunity for us to reach a consensus on this too. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, it was not just Mrs Deputy and the Left Block that presented a compromise solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u277	What's it worth?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u278	The proposal which the Government brings here to the Assembly of the Republic is also a compromise proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u279	But tell me how much it's worth. Is the postmark okay?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u280	I would like to take this opportunity to say, both Mr Duarte Pacheco and the whole House, once again, what I have already said today, and the government has already mentioned earlier: we are negotiating the terms of implementation of this measure, which means verifying stages of consumption articulated with power contracted and articulated with a solution that is possible to execute. We have always sought to bring fiscal changes into force on 1 July or 1 January. Therefore, we will do so - as soon as we have the conditions to implement this measure, which is not a fire measure. Mr President, it is not by chance that this was even one of the first measures to be taken immediately after the adjustment programme. But, as the Secretary of State for Energy has already recalled, there was the theory of going beyond the troika and went beyond 13%. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, it is in order not to reverse such measures in the future that we are proposing a sustainable measure that accompanies the challenge of climate change. Therefore, the terms and methods of implementation will be carried out in accordance with the terms and ways in which we can implement this same legislative authorization. So, as we have always said, and today we have repeated, there is no money in the State budget for this legislative authorization.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u281	And do you want us to pass a blank check to the government?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u282	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to have a debate here, according to which there are measures that are against and others in favour of Portuguese, does not strictly add anything to the discussion. What adds to the discussion is to beat us for our convictions. I understand that Mr Duarte Pacheco is in a very difficult position because the PSD has a congress this weekend and you have to assert your leadership. [[PSD protests.]] I understand your problem with political games. The government does not enter political games.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u283	But you don't want to be serious? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u284	The Government wants to approve a legislative authorisation allowing, also through electricity VAT, to contribute to the fight against climate change. We're sure the whole country will follow us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u285	We have entered into the discussion of the proposed addendum to Article 215. o -A — Addendum to List II annexed to the VAT Code. To this end, Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u286	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The mitigation of greenhouse gases and the fight against climate change require the urgent need to ensure new mobility paradigms, which contribute to reducing the use of the particular car. It is urgent to promote soft mobility by encouraging and creating conditions for bicycle use as alternative transport. Therefore, it is necessary to create mechanisms that encourage and encourage its use. The Greens therefore propose that the VAT rate applied to the purchase of bicycles should be increased from 23 % to 13 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u287	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u288	We move on to the discussion of Article 221. o — Special taxes on consumption. Mr Cecilia Meireles, from the CDS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On Article 221. the, would like to speak of a proposal of the NAP which establishes a tax on livestock production which is actually a tax on meat. I would like to warn Parliament that the approval of this tax means the annihilation of livestock production in Portugal and that it has several consequences. I hear many speeches about the interior, especially the NAP, but apparently for the NAP, agriculture only if it is biological or subsistence, livestock or thinking, forests only to walk — there can be no economic activity in the forest — the pollutant industry, therefore also cannot exist and basically tourists, only if they are on foot inside! So I'd like you to explain what you think people can do to make a living either on the inside or on the coast. This is because there are not enough nice speeches on subsidies to the interior, it is necessary to realize that there are economic activities that, yes, exist in these parts of the territory and that are good for Portugal — they are national production! — and that the solution for them is not to tax them and to tax them as if there were no tomorrow. You don't think this is a mild or symbolic tax. This tax eliminates livestock production in Portugal. The gentlemen. Members of the NAP have every right not to like meat, not to want to eat it, to have the lifestyle they understand. But they do not have the right to impose this lifestyle on the Portuguese population and those who do not agree with it. And above all, no one has given you authority to be dictating the lifestyles and tastes of others. This tax is very serious, it represents a deep prejudice against the rural world and the interior and, frankly, it already arrives with pious speeches on the inside. It is very important that the proposal on this tax be dropped. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u290	We move on to the discussion of Article 223. o — Provision of revenue to the health sector. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is often said that mental health is the poor relative of health policy - it is said, and rightly so. In fact, Portugal has a high prevalence of mental illness and a high consumption of psychopharmaceuticals, but has a very limited public response and a National Health Plan that has been ignored. With the proposed amendment presented by the Left Block, the National Mental Health Plan will finally be implemented in 2020 and measures will be implemented such as prevention projects, anxiety and depression treatment, community team functioning and free dispensation of antipsychotics. The Left Block proposal also aims to increase investment in the SNS by EUR 180 million and to create a multi-year investment plan for equipment and technology to increase the response capacity of the SNS and reduce the dependence of conventioners. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is building a stronger SNS. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u292	We are now discussing the proposal of Article 223. o -A— Plurianual Investment Plan for the National Health Service. Mrs Telma Guerreiro of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme of mental health has been treated with some dignity by society, government and this House. It is therefore important to recall clearly the milestones that the Socialist Party has reached on this issue. In 1998, the Mental Health Act originated in a proposal from a Government of the Socialist Party ; the National Mental Health Plan also started in a Government of the Socialist Party. In 2009, the process of psychiatric deinstitutionalization began in Portugal, which also took place within the framework of a socialist government. For more than 20 years, no competitions were opened for psychologists in the SNS and it was with a socialist government that took that opportunity. As we all know, it will also be in a socialist government that will be set up 10 community mental health teams, which will be made an investment of EUR 4, EUR 5 million for the continuity of the deinstitutionalization process, which should so much pride us, and EUR 1 million for the requalification of the forensic psychiatric unit of the Sobral Cid hospital, which will have the hiring of 200 new mental health responses and of course there will be the fulfilment of the National Mental Health Plan. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must bear in mind that over the years the PS has been monitoring these matters and that mental health has gradually advanced in what governments should focus on these issues, contrary to the times when all support was completely spent. So again, with humility, we say that, yes, we have much to do in the area of mental health and we know that this is a priority theme within the area of health, as already mentioned by the Minister of Health. We know that, with the Socialist Government and this socialist bench, in which Portuguese and Portuguese trusted, the issue of mental health will continue to be on the agenda. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u294	On the same proposal for an article, Mrs Sara Velez of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government of the Socialist Party identifies in this Budget health as one of the priority axes of government action. The definition of a multiannual plan, in addition, already provided for in the new Basics Act, the strengthening of the budget allocation for SNS in EUR 940 million compared to the year 2019 and the hiring of 8400 health professionals are, among other things, sufficient evidence of this political option and that is contained in our Budget. Thus, the creation of a multi-annual plan aimed at increasing the response capacity of the SNS is also a concern of the government, as well as of the options and policy definitions previously carried out. An increase of EUR 190 million in investment is expected for 2020 and 2021, which will enable new projects to start. We consider the inclusion of EUR 180 million in the financial account of the SNS to be appropriate in order to improve the quality of response of public health services more and more, so we will vote in favour of Amendment No 40 - C. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u296	We move on to the discussion of Article 225. o — Transitional provision for oil and energy products used in the production of electricity, electricity and heat or gas from the city. Mrs Joana Bento of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Budget is a mirror of the adoption of public environmental policies for Portugal to meet the environmental goals and commitments it has assumed and is in itself an instrument capable of motivating economic agents and contributors to the sustainability of the planet. The norm is, in itself, a tax incentive that is again associated with respect for the environmental commitments made by the Portuguese Government in the Paris Climate Change Agreement, namely carbon neutrality in 2050. We are serious about our long-term climate objectives. We therefore intend to benefit from all environmentally responsible options and behaviours. The environmental component is a way to go and it is a path that we must follow to achieve the carbon reduction. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the carbon reduction is not done by magic, so we have a lot of way to go. We must encourage, by positive means, environmentally responsible behaviors and choices to continue the path of balance between economic development and environmental impacts generated by it. There is no doubt that these impacts must be compensated and only regret that there are those in this Parliament who have doubts that climate change needs to be tackled with public policies. That's how it's done for the next generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u298	We move on to the discussion of Article 228. o — Amendment to the Code of Municipal Property Tax. Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, from the CDS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government, in its budget, submits a proposal for a revocation of Article 44. the Statute of Tax Benefits. What this Article says 44. o? It states precisely that there is exemption from IMI for « buildings classified as national monuments and buildings individually classified as public interest or municipal interest ». I would even say that this proposal is absolutely remarkable and that, perhaps, no one believes it. What the Tax Authority ( AT ) tried to take over for years, I repeat, for years—the process that ended up losing in the Supreme Administrative Court, having been given reason to the owners themselves—, the government now takes away. In other words, the owners had several actions in court, had costs with lawyers, the courts were filled with proceedings and now comes the government and simply proposes this revocation. This initiative contradicts the position of the Government itself. It is this same government that states that the classified cultural heritage must be rehabilitated, preserved and dynamized, and with this the CDS agrees. But it is also not only on this issue that the government opposes itself. The government opposes itself precisely in the Basics of Cultural Heritage Act, which is approved. And what does she expect? It provides for tax benefits and incentives relating to the protection and valorization of cultural heritage. Therefore, we do not fully understand what the government wants. Does the government want to withdraw the exemption from IMI to end the historical houses that still exist in our country and the cultural heritage they represent? Is this what the government wants? With the elimination of this benefit, the Portuguese State is disregarding international commitments, particularly with UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization ), even because much of this heritage is located in regions within the country that needs incentives and incentives. But with this proposal, the government gives exactly the opposite signal. That is to say, when the government says that we have to support the interior, the interior and the interior is by the words, but then when it comes to the one who is the fundamental document, the Budget, there, it is conversation, talk and more conversation and very little interior. Let us be clear: the exemption from IMI is a compensation for safeguarding heritage. It's this and it's nothing more than this. It is a law which aims so simply to exempt what is public and to tax the private. So that's the one who pays and he's gonna keep paying. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u300	On the same article, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mr. Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u301	Mr President, Mr João Gonçalves Pereira, I would like to thank you for your intervention because it gives me the opportunity to need a few questions. There is one point that the honourable Member could have stressed and did not, but which makes all the difference. The IMI is a municipal recipe, as, in fact, Mr. Deputy, who is a councilman in the City Hall of Lisbon, you know. However, as a municipal revenue, the government's orientation, moreover, covered by the Assembly, has been to allow, in accordance with the RFALEI (financial regime of local authorities and intermunicipal entities), that municipalities can decide on their objective and subjective, total or partial exemptions. We have done so with the introduction of Article 16. the RFALEI in the past legislation and we have come to be consistent with this same understanding. What happened to the IMI of historic centers? We have a standard in force in the Statute of Tax Benefits which creates an exemption in historical centres. The courts understood that any building inside a historic center — whether it had historical interest or not — would be free of IMI, a garage or a classified solar. Despite the government, through the Tax Authority, and the municipalities themselves have been successively contradicting these understandings, the truth is that since there is uniform case-law of the administrative court, we did what was supposed to be done. That is, we have adapted the performance of the Tax Authority to the decisions of the higher courts. And we went further: we met with the National Association of Municipalities exactly to analyze two dimensions—the problem that is the rhomb in terms of revenue that no longer receive and how we resolve the questions for the future. So, Mr President, what we have here in this matter is much more than you have said. We revoke the tax benefit so that each municipality can make that decision. In cases of municipal tax revenue refunds that are lost because the liquidations are cancelled judicially, we are allowing this replacement to be phased out and not to be made only once, as so far. We are also, see Mr Deputies, to make the figure of the municipalities as counter-interested in the tax process compulsory so that whenever there are actions to cancel the liquidations of these taxes, the municipalities can also defend themselves. Sir, what is going to happen now in historic centers? With regard to national monuments, the State has a subjective tax exemption, so it is not subject to tax. As for the other buildings included in the historic centers, our expectation is that, under the autonomy of local power, the authorities give these exemptions. That is our expectation, and I know that you are confident in the democratic local power. I trust and I am sure that this matter will be resolved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u302	We are now discussing the proposal of Article 230. o -A— Extraordinary return of single circulation tax. Mr Jorge Salgueiro Mendes, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Between 2007 and 2019, despite the successive claims, the Tax Authority has overburdened the Single Circulation Tax ( IUC ) on cars imported after June 2007 to thousands of taxpayers. It was necessary to await the judgment of the Portuguese State by the Court of Justice of the European Union, in May 2018, for failure to comply with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and for decisions of arbitral tribunals, for the Tax Authority to recognise the error in December 2019, assuming the obligation to return the excess of the IUC (the single circulation tax) and interest in late four years. However, the same Tax Authority has argued that it is up to the taxpayer to claim the return of the IUC and interest, invoking administrative difficulties of access to car data, supporting itself at the IMT ( Institute of Mobility and Transport ) responsible for the car registration. It is a reason to ask where is the famous Simplex, which the government so advertises. The PSD considers this situation unacceptable. As Portugal is a rule of law, it is required that it behave as a good person. As a result, the PSD Parliamentary Group argues that the Government should urgently promote the link between the Tax Authority and the IMT in order to return the amounts of the IUC excessively charged, plus interest, by means of an informal review to be carried out within six months. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u304	Since the Government wishes to intervene, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u305	Mr President, Mr Salgueiro Mendes, allow me to say the following: if he had used the regiment figure, which he has the right to make a request to the Government, he would have avoided coming here to say something that does not correspond to the truth, because the honourable Member has based himself on news from a newspaper which is not true. Mr President, do you know what would happen if AT asked the IMT for the data you are requesting? Mr. Deputies would be exactly the same, I wouldn't solve any problems. So if the honourable Member had asked us the question, we would have - we would have answered him - that is not the point. The first point that needs to be stressed is this: the Tax Authority has done its duty, which is before a decision of the Court of Justice of the European Union to conform its actions to what is the firm case-law. And what was the first thing you did? It was to put an end to the pending dispute that existed both in the courts and in administrative terms. I think this is a good person. And he went further: in order to be able to take all the consequences, we do not need to access any information from the IMT, what we need is the taxpayer's collaboration, being up to the principle of collaboration between the Administration and those administered under the CPA ( Code of Administrative Procedure ). Mr. Deputies, as you know, the IUC is a self-liquidation tax. Therefore, at the time of self-liquidation, the taxpayers will have the ability to update the registration of their car, being automatically updated the registration of the Tax Authority. Whenever there is to be rest, there will be. As I have already had the opportunity to say publicly, whenever there is a tribute due to the Tax Authority, it does not cease to charge, but whenever the Tax Authority unduly charges.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u306	We move on to the discussion of Article 231. o — Amendment to the Statute for Tax Benefits. Mr Alexandre Poço, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this Budget, the Government proposes the end of the exemption of IMI (Municipal Property Tax) for buildings classified as national monuments or of public interest. The government, in the end of this exemption, calls into question the national policy for the protection of national and architectural heritage. On the other hand, the end of the exemption represents another increase in taxes on Portuguese. Finally, this decision will certainly lead to the desertification and abandonment of historic buildingsSrs. Members of the Government, this government will be responsible for this result and the PSD will not follow you. This is not the way to defend national heritage and monuments. We will therefore vote against this proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u308	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 235. o — Amendment to the Fiscal Code on Investment and proposed amendments. Mrs Sofia Matos of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the State does not invest and, moreover, the government limits, and much, the investment capacity of entrepreneurs, who are ultimately those who create jobs, those who create wealth and those who feed the economic growth of our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u310	The Government of the Socialist Party supported by management promised, but failed to meet, to increase public investment and instead increased captives and tax burden. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, investment is essential for the competitiveness of our economy, for the creation of wealth and for the export of products and services, which our companies are involved in. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD proposes that the State facilitate the life of companies that wish to reinvest their profits. The percentage of retained and reinvested profits accepted for 10 % IRC deduction is very low. The PSD proposes that this rate be doubled to 20 %, creating better conditions for investment, as well as the possibility of covering also applications that are made for fund management. Mrs. Government members, companies in Portugal are totally whipped by taxes. To encourage companies to invest is to bet on the future of Portugal, it is to bet on a better future for Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u311	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government also wishes to speak on this point, and Mr President-in-Office of the Council for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u312	Mr President, Mrs Sofia Matos, I thank you for the questions you have brought to Parliament. Let me give you the following precision: the companies were whipped by lack of access to finance and we were able to recover private investment to levels that they did not have before. So this is recovered. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I would like to agree with you on the following point: we want to support the investment of companies and improve the deduction for retained reinvested profits, as you want to do, but let me tell you that going from 10 % to 20 % has only a practical impossibility: this is State aid and as State aid 10% are already the maximum limit you are allowed. That is why your proposal is inexcusable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is no longer inexcusable, Mrs Deputies, we have extended the scope of relevant investments. We have extended, in particular, to intangible assets, so that we can invest in innovation and, as it is State aid, we have a legislative authorisation so that, within these relevant applications, it may also be, for example, the acquisition of social participations to facilitate enterprise scale gains. Madam Member, we agree that we must continue to encourage companies in their investment, there is only one difference: this government created the conditions for financing the Portuguese economy, this government also created the conditions for lowering corporate taxes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u313	Mrs. Members, before passing the floor to the next speaker, the Bureau wishes to inform that, according to the services, and everything has already been duly confirmed, a draw has been drawn in the vote on proposal 1012 - C of the PSD for the addition of paragraph 5 to Article 116. o — Granting of loans and other active operations, having voted in favour of 109 Members, against 109 Members and abstained from 12 Members. Therefore, in accordance with Article 99 ( 2 ). that of the Rules of Procedure, tomorrow, this vote will be repeated if necessary before requests for speech to that effect. That is what Article 99 ( 2 ) provides for. that of the Rules of Procedure, but finally, the essential thing is that the vote will be repeated tomorrow. We shall now proceed to the discussion of the proposal of the ENP for the addition of Article 239. o -A — Addition to General Tax Law. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u314	Mr President, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises play a key role in the development of the country, but they also respond to many economic problems. In fact, it is not by chance that the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic in its Article 86. the, expressly states that the State encourages the business activity, in particular of small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, it is no less because micro, small and medium-sized enterprises play an absolutely decisive role in our economy, representing about 99 % of the total number of companies in our country, are responsible for 80 % of the total value of employment and represent 60 % of the total turnover of non-financial companies. It happens that, despite the importance they take from the point of view of our economy, the truth is that, in general, these companies continue to live with many difficulties, presenting excessive levels of indebtedness, constraints and difficulties that also arise from the unfavorable fiscal and bureaucratic framework. That is why the Greens believe that measures should be implemented to enhance, support and facilitate the activity of these companies and, in many cases, to enable them to survive. For this reason, the Greens propose, by way of an amendment to the General Tax Law, that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises holding, at the time of payment of their tax obligations, values to be returned by the State may pay only the value corresponding to the difference between what they should have received and what they should pay by way of an account. This is a proposal for greater justice, as well as other proposals presented by the Greens in the State Budget, such as the programme for the valuation of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in the context of public procurement and the functioning of the State purchasing centres or, in addition, for the IRC rate applicable to these companies, to the first €25 000 of taxable material, to be only 15 %. They are proposals that, if they were to receive the rest of the banks, could contribute to the dynamisation and sustainability of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, alleviating some of the constraints that continue to choke the lives of these companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u315	We shall now examine the proposal of the NAP to add Article 240. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 178 / 2006 of 5 September 2006 Mrs. Cristina Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u316	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the results of urban waste management in Portugal are very bad. Waste production has been increasing and recycling rates continue far below what would be desirable. Of all the plastic produced, we recycled only 12 %. Clearly, we are not going to meet European goals. As if this were not bad enough, we received tons of waste from other countries. And why? Because we have one of the lowest waste management rates in Europe. Portugal is, unfortunately, the waste of Europe! €11 per tonne of landfill waste is charged, when the price in other European countries is high and well! , 100 € per tonne. The proposal of the PAN, which has been made a great deal up to, defends the duplication of the current value, i.e. to increase to €22 per tonne. We are less than 10 years from the cliff and so I urge you. Members present here to value our country and our citizens and to approve the NAP proposal. [[PAN's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u317	On behalf of the Government, the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize to Mrs PAN, but I asked for the floor to say the following: recently, the PSD spoke in political games, but the fact is that it ended up not announcing here in Parliament, in the House of Democracy, what it will do, but announced it at a press conference. Mrs. Members, the PSD has announced that it will withdraw its proposal, put the electricity VAT proposal from October onwards, remove the cut in intermediate consumption and only maintain that in the cabinets. Mr Duarte Pacheco, this is a permanent measure and has solved the problem these three months, how does it solve the problem within the next 12 months? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u319	Mr President, are intermediate consumption not to be cut now but to be cut next year? How can it cover EUR 700 million? No, we are not available for political games and we hope that Parliament will not be either, because that is to play with the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u320	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, outside of the article that is under discussion and out of the moment, the Secretary of State has decided to come back to the game with the same matter. But in this regard, Mr Secretary of State, first of all, I would like to ask you the following: when you draw up a budget, is it not necessary to take all the conditions into account? In other words, what must be paid in wages, what must be paid in pensions, what must be included in the various expenditure, in the health, education categories, including the tax rates that are in force. As I know, this is a budgetary restriction that must be on the table when a budget is prepared in good faith for the following year. Secondly, I must say to you — and we are not afraid to do — the following: that I know, it was the previous government that received a tax benefit analysis report and that it announced that it would make a review, for example, of obsolete tax benefits. Well, is this more an unfulfilled promise or is it a promise to fulfill? And if it is to be implemented, why can't this proposal help to cover this differential? What you don't really want is to lower the electricity tax for the Portuguese! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u322	Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u323	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, yes, we are doing the reduction of tax benefits and this reduction of tax benefits also has a practical translation in this State budget when we move in a tax expenditure of EUR 250 million. But, as we said from the outset, as in the Stability Programme, this is to lower income taxes for families and businesses. That is what is in the Stability Programme, and that is what we are doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u324	That's what we're proposing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u325	Mr President, what you are proposing now is not an amendment to the budget but doing what you said you did not do: you are proposing another budget. And the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are compromising the future. Mr President, these gains with the budget expenditure have already been largely exceeded by all that you have done. Members approved yesterday in terms of public expenditure. So we are going to exercise great responsibility here. You have to assume that you are approving a reduction in revenue and you have to assume what expenditure you want to cut in the next 12 months of 2021. It's just that what they want to cut, the gentlemen have already said. You may now be able to withdraw intermediate consumption, but that is what you are. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to. And we expect everyone here in Parliament to know that what the PSD is proposing is a decrease in revenue to reduce public spending in the National Health Service next year. Well, I mean, clearly, that we are not available for that. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u326	On this subject, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u327	Mr President, we have recently made an intervention in which we have made our position on electricity VAT very clear, and our refusal to make this debate a political game of geometry which then ends up in nothing, and that is more a disappointment to the people who are waiting for this measure. We don't align with dramatization. So, in respect of the position we have already taken here, in respect of our mandate, because we were aware of the proposal of the Social Democratic Party and its main characteristics and, without prejudice to the fact that we can examine it in detail, we consider that it is going to meet the position that we have clearly expressed here. We therefore believe that there is a way for you to make your vote feasible this afternoon. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u328	We shall proceed to the discussion of Article 250. o — Legislative authorization within the framework of the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector. To this end, Mr Jorge Costa, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u329	Mr President, this article is one of the most important signs of the government's lack of determination on the energy issue. The Government refers to the effects of past measures — that of the social tariff — be the corrective measures which, in the previous legislation, we have taken and with visible results in the electric invoice, but closes our eyes to the fact that we continue to have one in five families living in a situation of energy poverty and that this requires strong measures. There are some wrong decisions in this budgetary procedure, namely: the withdrawal of the Government and the Socialist Party within the scope of the enlargement of the social tariff voted here today; the refusal to apply the recommendations of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to the Payment of Excessive Income to Electricity Producers, which the PS itself has approved, but that the Government is systematically attacking as inapplicable; and now the reduction of the special contribution of the energy sector. A contribution, it is true, that, in its nature, it is temporary, but it has a goal: to eliminate the tariff debt. So why reduce the contribution of the energy sector when the tariff debt is still at EUR 2700 million and today is still a burden on the energy bill for its interest? And why is it that the contribution of the energy sector then goes down before that tariff debt is eliminated, as expected? at the same time, the government exacerbates the privilege of companies, because these incomes remain and this is a contribution that led to a holding of the invoice in a context of excessive incomes. The rents continue and the contribution is reduced. It's not acceptable! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u330	We move on to the discussion of the proposal submitted by the PS to add an article 255. o -A— Coercive charge of non-taxable debts by the Tax and Customs Authority. Mr João Paulo Correia of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u331	Mr President, the Socialist Party submits a proposal on the compulsory collection of non-taxable debts by the Tax Authority. The PS proposes that, by the end of this first half, the Government undertake a comprehensive review of the model prior to the introduction of tax enforcement procedures by the Tax Authority. This includes, of course, the revision of the counter-ordinary procedure on the collection of tolls. We know that, over the years, the coercive collection of tolls has been a scourge for huge Portuguese people who, due to lack of information in good time, have often debated themselves with coercive charging and with very heavy fines. Now, our proposal goes towards this model to be revised as follows: by making it easier to access information, to the value of the tolls to be paid, if possible, immediately after the passage on the toll; by simplifying the mode of payment in the face of what is today, by introducing new technologies in the mode of payment; and by extending the administrative deadlines so that the deadline for charging is much later. In our view, compulsory collection by the Tax Authority should be the last and not the first resort, when it comes to collection of unpaid tolls. With this proposal, the Socialist Party aims to drastically reduce the number of coercive collection processes and thus cooperate with users of the highways and also defend the consumer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u332	Mrs. Members, the Bureau calls for your understanding that we must revert to the proposal submitted by the NAP for the addition of Article 253. o -A — Incentives for the reduction and reuse of single-use packages. It is that the government had signalled the intention to intervene and there was a delay in the Bureau. in this sense, Mr. Secretary of State of the Environment, Inês Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u333	Mr President, the legislative authorization requested by the Government in Article 253. the law proposal is linked to the need to start walking towards a more sustainable reuse of our packaging. It is very important that we continue this course if we do not, in fact, want to be, as Mrs Pannella has rightly pointed out, the « waste bin of Europe ». We're not, in fact. The TGR (waste management rate) will rise — and it is now. So it's not something to postpone. It will certainly be done in April. Within the framework of the General Waste Management Scheme, we are going to take that path and it is a path that will have to be made for all. Obviously this is a need that the country has to move forward to a more preventive waste management hierarchy based on reduction and reuse. And this legislative authorization will certainly contribute to this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u334	Let us move on to the discussion of the proposal submitted by BE, of the addition of Article 257. o -A— Exemption of toll rates on A22 / Via do Infante. To this end, Mr John Vasconcelos of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u335	Mr President, it was a very big mistake for the Algarve to introduce tolls on the Via do Infante. The consequences are in sight of all of us. As to: it has caused damage to the economy in a region that lives almost only from tourism; the Algarve has lost competitiveness in relation to Andalusia ; there has been a regression in mobility because there are no alternative routes in the region and the re-qualification of the national road No 125 has become a real trap between the PS and the PSD, in addition to it delays the modernisation of the regional railway ; there has been a loss of millions for the public record, which continues to fatten the pockets of a dark PPP (public-private partnership); the tolls have boosted road fatality, with more than 10 000 accidents per year and, since 2016, with many victims. All of this should make 'collar of shame' all those responsible for maintaining this injustice. It is then time to return justice to the Algarve. The Left Block presents in this Budget a proposal to exempt from toll rates to Via do Infante, in the Algarve. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u336	Under Article 261. o — Amendment to Annex I to Law No 21 / 85 of 30 July, followed by discussion of the proposal, of the PS, of the addition of Article 261. o-E — Amendment to Law No 9 / 2016 of 4 April 2016. Mrs Lara Martinho of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u337	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this socialist government, at the most difficult times for the Azores, does not fail the Azores. This was the case at the recent crossing of Hurricane Lorenzo and the prompt commitment to participation in 85 % of the costs of repairing the damage caused. But that was also the case, when the difficult situation on the third island, with the reduction of the American presence at the Lajes Base and the consequent strong impact on the unemployment rate. The Socialist Government said « present » and implemented the Special Social Support Programme for the Third Island. This programme has played a very important role in supporting families who have faced more difficulties and is taking into account this important role that we propose to extend their application for another year. Because of the social and economic nature of this measure, we hope to have the support of all parties for their approval. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u338	We have moved on to the discussion of the proposal submitted by the ENP for the addition of Article 261. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 93 / 2009 of 16 April 2009. Mrs Mariana Silva of the Greens Ecological Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u339	Mr President, support products are essential for the day-to-day lives of disabled citizens and, according to legislation, are assigned free of charge and universally. Support products « any product, instrument, equipment or technical system used by a person with disabilities, especially produced or available which prevents, compensates, mitigates or neutralises the functional or participation limitation », as set out in Decree-Law No 93/2009. However, the allocation process is morbid and bureaucratic, making it difficult for people with disabilities to access these products. In addition, the Support Products Allocation System should be provided with sufficient budget for the needs. It follows that the amount of funding for support products is often set at the end of the year to which it relates, creating many constraints on people with disabilities. in this sense, the ENP proposes an amendment to Decree-Law No 93/2009 of 16 April so that these orders are fixed until the end of the first quarter, allowing the agileization of the acquisition process.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u340	The proposal submitted by BE is followed by the addition of Article 261. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 165 / 2006 of 11 August establishing the legal regime of Portuguese education abroad, and repeal of Ordinance No 102 / 2013 of 11 March 2013. Mrs Alexandra Vieira of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u341	Mr President, the introduction of the tip, which is already in €100, for a weekly class of 50 or 90 minutes, has led to the loss of about 9000 students, children of emigrants or Luso-descendants and the dispensation of 30 teachers. Manuals are not free either. This contradicts the Constitution itself, which provides for free education, also in this case. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through the Camões Institute, must suspend the tip, a factor of discrimination in relation to integrated teaching, in the case, the teaching of Portuguese abroad. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u342	On the proposal submitted by BE, to add an article 261. o -A — Revoking Article 7 ( 5 ( c ). that of Decree-Law No 127 / 2012 of 21 June, on disciplinary legal standards of the procedures necessary for the application of the Law of Commitments and Payments in Delay, has the floor Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u343	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are hospitals that are currently unable to buy medicines, hospitals that have already seen works or investments to be suspended due to a lack of prior visa of the Court of Auditors and the problem is one: it is called 'the Law of Commitments'. It is a law that is manipulating the National Health Service; it is a law that subordinates the right to health to a completely irrational norm of treasury. The Government submits a proposal, in this State budget, which does not go through a remedy, which will not solve anything. What solves is even the proposal of the Block, which is to remove the SNS from the Law of Commitments. If the PS and PS bench still resided some initial spirit that criticized the Law of the Compromises when it was approved by the PSD and the CDS-PP will follow the proposal of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u344	The proposal submitted by BE for the addition of Article 261 is under discussion. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 178 / 2006 of 5 September approving the general waste management regime. Mr. Nelson Peralta of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u345	Mr President, we only recycled 12 % of plastics and in one year we imported 2 million tonnes of waste. So we're abusing the landing figure. That is why the consequences are strong: the populations suffer and the infrastructures run out more quickly. That is also why the causes must be fought. In Portugal, it compensates to send to land instead of recycling. It's very cheap, it's seven times cheaper than in many other countries. That is why this State bill for managing companies has to end. Portugal has now become a destination for Europe's waste, so we must correct this issue. That is why we remember the words of the Minister for the Environment yesterday, who acknowledged the problem and said that it was essential to double the value of the waste management rate. That is the proposal which the Left Block brings to this Parliament. We therefore appeal to all Members, in particular the Members of the Socialist Party, who listen to the words of the Minister of the Environment and who, with his vote, approve our proposal. I also address the Government to say that here is the opportunity to correct this injustice and increase the value for more recycling and less importing waste. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u346	We are now discussing the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 261. o -A — Amendment to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August establishing the funding bases for higher education. Mr. Luís Monteiro, from the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u347	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, the rates and emoluments in higher education have become a real point of view. On the part of higher education institutions, imagination is very fertile, in this area: registrations for improvement of grades, third stage of exams, diplomas, certificates, a set of subjects, academic data inherent in the normal course of each student, a degree, a master's degree or a doctorate. It is therefore important to ensure that all these costs are introduced into the payment of the tip and the Block proposal ensures that. Let us hope that, in this State budget, we will be able to adopt a measure of the most basic justice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u348	The Government would therefore like to speak to the Secretary of State for the Environment, Inês Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u349	Mr. President, I'm stuck. How can anyone believe a 12 % rate without even checking the numbers? The recycling rate of packaging is currently 44, 3 %. The honourable Member is mixing garlic with bugs — this is the first question, Mr. The second question, as I have already said to Mrs PAN, will be reviewed by the TGR (Residue Management Rate). However, what producers pay is not only TGR, they also pay a landing entry fee. Therefore, the cost is not only €11/tonne. Thirdly, there are more countries that have the lowest rate than Portugal, but do not worry because this will change very soon. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u350	Following the speech by Mr Luís Monteiro on the proposal submitted by BE to add Article 261. o -A — Amendment to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August, the Government indicated its willingness to intervene. Mr. Secretary State of Science, Technology and Higher Education, João Sobrinho Teixeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u351	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to ask for some caution on this matter, because, in addition to the budgetary impact it will have on the institutions, and we would have to find ways to compensate, I think that we could go, above all, in order to modernise the system itself — and that is what the government is doing — through the digitisation of a series of documents that is referred to here, which could be much more assertive and available to candidates in a much more efficient way, without it being paying off the expenditure of the institutions themselves and thus freeing administrative work. On the other hand, I would like to mention the risk that could exist for institutions in terms of the release of a payment for improvements examinations and appeals examinations — above all, improvement examinations — which can generally be the case for all students to apply for improvement examinations. [[Protests by Mr. BE Luís Monteiro.]] This will lead to a chaotic approach to the institutions that have to prepare their examinations and may end up in a way that seems negative to me, i.e. the amendment of the regulations that the institutions will have to make in order to make the system minimally efficient so that students who want access to these appeals and improvements are prevented from doing so by a regulatory amendment. He therefore asked for some weighting on the implications that this measure will have for the institutions and that it may harm the students themselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u352	That is the "potato theory"!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u353	We move on to the discussion of the proposal submitted by the PS to add an article 261. o-H — Amendment to Law No 29 / 87 of 30 June on the status of local voters. Mr Fernando Paulo Ferreira of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u354	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the path of strengthening the competences of local authorities and the inter-municipal communities initiated in the previous legislation continues to be present, recognizing the Government and the Socialist Party that some State functions are better exercised in the context of proximity, with a greater possibility of participation and civic involvement of the communities. in this proposal of State Budget, there are many examples that we could talk about and that contribute to the appreciation of municipalities and parish and their capacity for autonomy and intervention. From the outset, I remember the historic strengthening of financial transfers to municipalities and to the parish that, for another year, repeats itself. But the Socialist Party does not forget, in particular, those and those citizens who, with generosity and civic courage, are often the first to interpret the needs of their communities and to turn to their afflictions and to whom, in the first place, the citizens turn to and trust, who are the mayors of the parish councils. The Socialist Party thus takes advantage of the discussion in the speciality of this State budget to introduce the social security protection regime to the parish authorities who are performing functions in exclusivity but in the medium term, correcting a situation of injustice, which persisted, guaranteeing social protection to those who are exclusively at the service of their local communities and parish. The dignity of the figure of the author reinforces his responsibility and recognises his role as a carpenter in the work of proximity that he develops, representing the State among the peoples and in our country, even though, in some places, the only representatives of the Public Administration in their localities. With this proposal from the Socialist Party, if approved, these electors will become entitled, like any other, to protection in the social security regime. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u355	We have moved on to the discussion of Article 279. o — Amendment to Law No 7 / 96 of 29 February, which defines the structures for technical and personal support and for the management of assets, administrative and financial resources of the sovereign body President of the Republic. You have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Eduardo Teixeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u356	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, this is a point with which the PSD disagrees and on which it has put forward a proposal for rejection. The two points provide that the careers of officials of the Presidency of the Republic and also of the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, in particular the residence of the Prime Minister. We are talking about possible increases in these two careers for hundreds of employees, which can reach between 60% and 80%. Will it be a lapse? It's just that if it's not a lapse, we're really scared. When for the common Portuguese, in this State budget, we are discussing increases of 0, 2 % for civil servants, as is possible—and I am also speaking for the social communication—that today may be discussing increases between 60 % and 80 % for these two classes working directly with Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. President of the Republic? The question that I am asking and that I allow myself to stay in the air is the following: is Mr President of the Republic being a proposal from the Government, you know this, with regard to his officials from the Presidency of the Republic? Do you agree with these increases that can reach 80 %? It is that, with the rigour that is known to you, we have some doubts that this can happen. There is no proportionality. Therefore, the PSD does not agree, has many doubts and therefore calls for this article to be rejected and thus these increases which, in two professional classes, can reach more than 80 % of the order of these people. It's regrettable! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u357	We are now discussing the proposals submitted by the CFP for the addition of Article 284. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November, which regulates access to the services of the National Health Service by users with regard to the moderating rate regime and the application of special benefit schemes. Mrs Paula Santos from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u358	Mr President, it is more than proven that moderate rates are a real obstacle to access to health. If our Constitution says that health is a right of everyone, if everyone is considered to have access to health, then this access must be ensured and free of charge. The existence of moderate rates alone deprives and prevents thousands and thousands of users from accessing the health care they are entitled to. in this State budget, we bring to the vote two proposals, one, giving fulfillment to what has already been approved in the Health Bases Act, i.e. the exemption of moderate rates in primary health care and in the complementary means of diagnosis and therapy by these prescribed ones, and another, the exemption of moderate rates also for chronic patients, resonating an exemption that has already existed, because it makes no sense that some diseases are exempt and the patient is not exempt from it. We therefore believe that this way of reducing moderate rates should be pursued with the aim — that is our objective — of eliminating it, because that is what actually ensures that our Constitution is fulfilled and that, indeed, no user, no citizen is prevented from accessing health care due to economic difficulties. [[PCP and PEV applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u359	We move on to the proposal submitted by the IL to add Article 284. o -A — Amendment to Law 19 / 2003 of 20 June on the financing of parties and electoral campaigns. Mr. João Cotrim Figueiredo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u360	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said this morning that the left-wing parties like taxes a lot. They like it very much, except if they have to pay, because they don't actually pay them. [[PSD laughter.]] Why don't political parties pay stamp taxes? Why don't you pay successive taxes? Why don't they pay IMT (municipal tax on expensive property transmissions) and IMI in the vast real estate that some people have? Why don't you pay the car tax? Why do they not pay VAT, even in activities very similar to other commercial ones, in the case of the Front Party?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u361	I was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u362	It is time to put an end to these incomprehensible and unacceptable privileges. This is not populism, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is decency!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u363	Pay for VAT!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u364	That is what we have proposed in this proposal. It's time to choose which side they want to stay on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u365	At this point too, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u366	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo, the debate, in fact, has an inevitable scent of populism, for the following reason: the way in which the law defined the financing of parties and campaigns, creating a balanced cake to finance an activity with public interest, which is the representation of citizens, within which political parties play a fundamental social function, presupposes this balance. As far as this balance is concerned, what you are proposing is that there be a reduction in funding to political parties, which has, as a result, put pressure on the need to increase sources of alternative funding to political parties, which is something that pushes political parties towards the need for private funding and goes in line with those that are the worst possible practices that we have internationally found. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]] It is the translation of the placement of those who must be sources of guarantee of independence in the exercise of public functions in the hands of those who want to finance it. [[IL protests.]] Therefore, Mr President, I can understand that, in a market logic, everything is open, in which even the parties are available to be acquired by their financiers, in a free logic, this can make sense for the Liberal Initiative. It makes me less sense that the Left Block has partly aligned itself on the same path by proposing the exemption of IMI.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u367	Always! Always!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u368	He always proposed, always bad. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] He always proposed wrong, for the same reason. The argument is precisely the same, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! It is not because of the tax being the stamp tax, the successive tax or the other that are not exactly doing the same. It is the Citizens United, which in the United States allows companies to acquire control of political parties. That is why the public funding of the parties guarantees a defence barrier against the acquisition of parties by interests that are not relevant. So the Left Block is wrong and it was wrong of the Liberal Initiative. We guarantee, and we must continue to ensure, that our political party financing system is essentially and promptly public, because that is what protects democracy, which has a cost and which we must be prepared to pay. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[IL protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u369	We have entered into the discussion of the proposal of the CFP to add a new Article 284. o-B — Amendment to the Rules of Procedure, approved by Decree-Law No 34 / 2008 of 26 February 2008. Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u370	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, this article concerns procedural costs and is an opportunity to make a reference to the essential of the proposals presented by the CFP Parliamentary Group in the area of justice. In fact, on judicial costs, there is a very large consensus to consider that judicial costs are exorbitant to the vast majority of citizens, who do not, in fact, have economic resources to sustain a deal in court, given the high price of legal costs to be paid. in this sense, from several years to this time that the PCP has successfully proposed, in this House, the freezing of the value of the legal costs, therefore, there has been no increase. In the last four years, there has been no increase in the value of judicial costs and this proposal is maintained in this State budget. In addition, there are exemptions that we have come to propose and that we will continue to propose. One of them concerns proceedings concerning workers who are injured at work, which, from our point of view, should be exempt from legal costs when they have to go to court, with a view to being compensated for accidents at work that have suffered, as we believe it makes all the sense, in the proceedings relating to the follow-up of larger persons, that there is an exemption from judicial costs. It is in some way provided for in the law, but there have been judicial interpretations that have frustrated the application of this principle and we believe that it must be effectively clarified. We also consider that a reduction in the value of judicial costs is justified in cases where the parties agree, to be approved in judicial proceedings. This friendly agreement should be effectively awarded with a reduction in the value of costs. Furthermore, in the area of justice, the CFP proposes that the procedural recovery supplement finally be integrated into the maturity of judicial officials. I also leave a final word for the judiciary and for criminal investigation: we consider it to be an unavoidable imperative for a democratic state to adequately finance the judicial police, to recover their paintings so impoverished, either at the level of researchers, or at the level of experts, or at the level of criminalists and security.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u371	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u372	I will finish, Mr. President. The Judicial Police must have an investment compatible with the importance that we should all attach to criminal investigation and, in particular, to the investigation of the most sophisticated crime, particularly in the fight against corruption. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u373	The Government has indicated its intention to intervene on this point. Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, John Leon, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u374	Mr President, on the issue of electricity VAT, the proposal submitted by the PSD represents less than EUR 800 million in the financing of the social state, public investment and the SNS. Less than EUR 800 million per year. It is a tremendous irresponsibility to present a proposal with tricks, with back-to-faces, at the last hour. It is not by chance that the generality of the countries of Europe has a normal rate of VAT in electricity. If it were so easy, without massively cutting into the National Health Service, in public investment, in the social state, don't you think most countries would do that? Oh, my God! It's a tremendous irresponsibility! I would like to say that the measures which the PSD has already approved yesterday in this House are at least four times greater than the compensation measure of EUR 8 million. The measures they present, with automatic and immediate effects on expenditure, are irresponsible. A party that imposed so many sacrifices and costs on the Portuguese has now wanted to launch instability and difficulties throughout the country. There is no improvement in this regard, because what you are presenting is a strong reduction in revenue based on a brutal cut in the expenditure of the social state and investment in public services. It has nothing to do with what the other parties have to do, which wanted to compensate for other increases in revenue, with taxes on companies, to compensate for this measure. They are totally opposite visions, radically opposed! It's irresponsible! ...in these five years of functions as Secretary of State of the Budget, I have never seen such an example as this, of total irresponsibility, of total lack of concern about the stability of the country and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u375	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, signed for this debate. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u376	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, you know that what you said is not true.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u377	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u378	Mr. Secretary of State knows perfectly well that the value he has here is not true. It is not true, because in our proposal we are not lowering the cost of complete energy, only electricity and household consumption. But more: I am not told that the country, after five years of socialist governance, is as bad as it was in 2011 that it does not bear this expenditure. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u379	Following this debate, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u380	Mr. President, I'd like to understand a few things. I have now seen the new PSD proposal and, as far as you can see, I would like to confirm two data. We are talking about a proposal that has a compensation of EUR 8 million. If that is the case, I would also like the Government to be able to clarify — if it can — after all, in relation to the extent of electricity and the authorization provided for in the Budget, what is the expenditure associated with it. It's just the ladies. Members and the government are all having a debate which throw numbers up the table that are completely disparate, without being able to finally realize what we are talking about. It is not possible to make decisions without you saying that we are talking about. How much has the Government planned to spend on electricity if, in fact, it uses the authorization it has in the Budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u381	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u382	If we come to the conclusion that this cost is exactly the same cost of applying the VAT reduction proposed by the PSD from October, after all, I do not know what we are discussing here! Therefore, I would like to see these doubts clarified. I think it would be much more useful than we're here with political games and bluffs, because frankly, I think no one else outside this room will notice. With all honesty, I also begin to understand little of what we are objectively discussing. Let's talk numbers, at least in the Budget. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u383	Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u384	Mr President, I am very concerned that the PSD makes a proposal of this size and does not know the impact on the reduction of government revenue. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u385	You know, you know!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u386	It is EUR 800 million per year. in a quarter, it would be 200 million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u387	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u388	The PSD, when presenting a proposal that involves a massive reduction in the financing of the State and public services, without a compensation at this time, demonstrates a tremendous irresponsibility. The Portuguese are attentive to the irresponsibility of a party which imposes so many sacrifices and so many cuts on the Portuguese, as if it were all worth it now. It is EUR 800 million per year, EUR 200 million this year. And companies cannot be discriminated against. The impact on companies is a part that cannot be discriminated against. It cannot be said that companies are not practical. That's illegal, there's no country to do it.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u389	The United Kingdom does!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u390	With no further inscriptions to follow up this debate, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo has the floor to speak on the proposal of the IL to add Article 284. o-B — Repeal of Articles 10. o, 10. o -A, 11. o, 12. paragraph 4 ( a ) and ( b ) and 13. the, paragraphs 1 and 2 of Law No 55 / 2012 of 6 September.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u391	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Did you know who does television advertising pay a show fee? Who does advertising in a movie room pays an exhibition fee? Who subscribes a cable TV service also pays a fee? And now, the Left Block, champion of taxation and enemy of innovation, or also that the streaming services, like Netflix, pay a fee. To this, we say 'no'! At all these rates, intended to feed customers and friends of the regime, we say 'no'! That is what we proposed in proposal 807 - C. It is also time to choose which side they are on. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u392	Do you want another regime? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u393	We are now discussing the proposal of Article 284 ( IL ) as an addition to Article 284 ( IL ). o-E — Reprivatisation and alienation operations. The first intervention is for Mr Carlos Brás of the Socialist Party. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u394	Mr President, the Liberal Initiative brings to this budget not one, not two, but three proposals for privatization of companies that are fundamental to the public orbit of the Portuguese State. In particular, I refer to RTP ( Radio and Television of Portugal ), TAP Air Portugal ( Transportes Aéreos Portugueses ) and the General Deposit Box, and in the case of RTP, we consider that it obviously conflicts with Article 38 ( 5 ). the Constitution of the Republic, in particular with regard to the public television service. We have also realized that Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo would like to see the Portuguese state's heritage reduced to roads and public roads. And maybe not that! Maybe not. But this is not the ideological matrix of the Socialist Party, it is not our DNA, we do not defend the minimal state. We are going into the Fifth State Budget without any privatisation and with great pride, we will return, as soon as we have taken possession, the partial privatisation of TAP. We prevent the privatization of public transport in Porto and Lisbon and the Portuguese are well aware of the disaster that has been privatised by TTCs. There are significant ideological differences about this. Liberals distrust the state ; we trust the state. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u395	Liberals want a reduced state; we defend a regulatory state, which ensures the vital functions of a prosperous society. The PS is between this liberalism and collectiveism, it is in the area of well-being, freedoms, guarantees, social justice and solidarity. We defend a political power that implements measures for a freer, fairer, more solidarity, more peaceful, open to innovation and progress, but attenuating inequalities and asymmetries. We defend political intervention in the distribution of wealth, we defend a state that ensures infrastructure, goods and services of general interest. Our model of economy, honourable Member, favours the combination between the private, the state and the cooperative. Market, yes, but regulated market. We say 'no' to the self-regulated market, we say 'no' to individualism. So, Mr. Deputies, privatize just because yes, no thanks, it will not be with the PS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u396	You have the floor at this point, Mr. João Cotrim de Figueiredo.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u397	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Dear colleague of the Socialist Party, the PS says that this is the best budget or ever, or of the world, or of the galaxy, says that there is no alternative to this Budget, says that any alternative to this Budget will not allow the public debt to be lowered. At the same time, however, the State is the owner of companies which make no sense whatsoever that they are from the State and that each year they run the risk of costing hundreds of millions of euros to the taxpayer, as has already happened with several of them. I am speaking in particular of the TAP, the RTP and the General Deposit Box. For we say that these companies operating in competitive sectors and in private logic are privatized and, therefore, we will immediately cut down 3 % of GDP to public debt. This is an alternative to this Budget. That is what we have proposed and it is time for them to choose which side they want to be on.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u398	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, even before we enter the debate on Article 1. that of the bill, the last article to be discussed, has the floor of Mrs Ana Catarina Mendonça Mendes, of the Socialist Party. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u399	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, what is going on this morning is a tremendous irresponsibility and an unprecedented gravity which calls into question the approval of this State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When Dr. Rui Rio goes to the Lost Steps to launch a bomb of this gravity, which compromises in EUR 800 million the State budget for 2021, and refuses to discuss here with Mr. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u400	Is it 800 million now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u401	... there's one thing we want to say: what is the PSD hiding from the Portuguese? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] You are hiding to the Portuguese what you will not be able to approve here, in Parliament, with compensatory measures behind and forward, with misaccounts, when you know that, after all, what you hide to the Portuguese is that you want a colossal cut of public spending, from now on in the National Health Service, to compensate for a measure that you know you cannot approve here! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we're not talking about things of only importance, we're talking about the lives of the Portuguese,... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u402	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u403	... and therefore the Socialist Party, unlike the PSD and the CDS, was also responsible for the existence of the social energy tariff, which now covers not 80 000 but 800 000 families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, we are talking about people's lives, because what is happening with this PSD maneuver — theater maneuver to deceive Portuguese people, already with the support of some parties in this Assembly of the Republic — means to commit more investment, better growth in Portugal and there is a step that is progressive and friendly of families. What you are doing is an ambush and are calling into question the 2020 State Budget and the 2021 budget, so the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will not compact, because that is not fair to the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u404	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u405	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u406	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes, your credibility in talking about numbers depends on the days, because every day they appear with new numbers! [[PS protests.]] When the members of the government present a number on the table, we only laugh, because they all have the same value. And starting with Mr Prime Minister : when he was asked n times here — he and the Minister of Finance — by the EUR 590 million differential in the Budget, he replied that this was a minute! And what was a moment suddenly becomes the most important and vital thing for the independence of Portugal! That just proves that you don't really want to lower the electricity tax for the Portuguese!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u407	There's a dairy cow!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u408	And that also proves the reason for your intervention, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes: the despair we feel at this time from the banks of the Government and the Socialist Party because they realize that Parliament can approve something that is positive for the Portuguese! Your nervousness only proves one thing: you have never really been committed to lowering the VAT of electricity for Portuguese families! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u409	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u410	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Pacheco, with all the respect I have for you, I must tell you that 'arithmetically impossible' was what a Member of your party who was the Minister of Finance said and who presented eight corrective budgets to this House of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u411	Zero bankruptcies!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u412	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the credibility of this government's accounts we are talking about: no corrections, certain accounts, growth, employment and better life for the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Duarte Pacheco, do you want to talk about accounts? Let's talk! You and the ladies. PSD members, one day they have an estimate of EUR 8 million, the other day they have an estimate of EUR 72 million... Look, more or less million, the truth is that what you are hiding is that the compensation they ask is compromising the State budget for EUR 2021 in EUR 800 million. Eight hundred million euros!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u413	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u414	As you are proposing it costs EUR 200 million. About accounts, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we're talking. It's PSD's inability to make your accounts! But I will not let this debate end without telling you... [[PSD protests.]] Calm down, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! The Portuguese know that they voted in the party of this bench to have that government that improved their living conditions and also reduced the electricity account through the social energy tariff. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen do not want to see, but the reels that have already given during this debate in the specialty say everything about the PSD: irresponsible! Irresponsible! And with that they don't count on the Socialist Party's bench! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u415	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u416	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we approve a budget and the government takes half of the things and does not make the investment you promised, of course you do not need to submit any corrections! That was the practice you had over five years! [[PSD applause.]] So that's worth what it's worth. But I repeat what I said recently to the Secretary of State: if you are so concerned with the impact next year, because the country, after all, rather than being financially sound, is practically on the brink of bankruptcy, as it was when you left it in 2011, then they respond, from next year, by 23 %, to the VAT rate. Have that courage, because that was to take on the grave situation in which the country is located. As you know it's not true, you have no other argument and, therefore, you do the theater you do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u417	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u418	Mr President, Member, only this morning the Mrs. Members have approved 35 proposals for increased expenditure!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u419	And the PS too!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u420	Let us speak clearly: you know that what you are saying is nothing more than theatre, because you know that it is true that our accounts are right, that we have credibility. And it is on behalf of this credibility that the proposal for compensation presented by you cannot be approved, because it will mortgage the next State budget. That, yes, is an ambush, an irresponsibility and a tremendous tramp in the PSD! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u421	On this point, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs Antonio Mendonça Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u422	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, I would like to assure you that the government is here with the tranquillity of those who are fulfilling their responsibility for the Portuguese. We are not nervous, Mr Member, but you have many reasons to be nervous, because it is regrettable that you are in a bench that is making a reformulated proposal that decreases the revenue by 200 million euros in this quarter and presents as compensations 8, 5 million euros, Mr Member! [[PSD MP Protests António Tropa.]] If there were any doubts about the PSD's capacity in relation to the rigor of accounts, the compensation of EUR 8, EUR 5 million compared to EUR 200 million says everything, Mr President! This is very regrettable! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The most serious thing is that you are using an old technique that the PSD has already used in the past. I remember, before the elections in 2015, how you hid from the Portuguese who wanted to cut 600 million euros in pensions. They hid!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u423	That's a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u424	Now, with the EUR 800 million less in the revenue they propose, Mr. Members have already told what they were going to do, even though they are hiding: cuts in intermediate consumption. So, what are you guys doing? Members are making up for the 2020 State Budget, to withdraw EUR 200 million of revenue and to compensate for EUR 8, EUR 5 million, and for the 2021 State Budget, they are already proposing an 800 million cut in the National Health Service. That is unacceptable and will not happen in this Parliament! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u425	That's a pain in the ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u426	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u427	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are three points that I would like to make very clear on this point in the debate. The first point is that the Government had — and has — for weeks now an intermediate proposal from the Left Block to reduce the VAT on electricity, which refused to negotiate and accept. That is why this choice concerns only the Government and the Socialist Party. The second point is that what is on the table is less than what the Socialist Party and Government put on the New Bank in 2019. The third point I want to make clear is that this proposal, with a reduced impact in 2020, will have an impact in 2021, which does not reduce by even half the government's budgetary surplus provided for in the stability programme presented by this Government. It is therefore false that this proposal calls into question any public service, being a blackmail that serves only for an artificial dramatization to which we do not follow. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u428	The Government also intends to intervene on this point, and I therefore once again give the floor to Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u429	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, the Left Block does not have the monopoly of concessions in this State budget. It was not just the Left Block that evolved in its proposal. The Government, which did not have this theme in its programme, submitted a proposal. So let's see if we understand ourselves: for many weeks we also have a proposal on the approximation table between the position of the Government and that of the Left Block. But, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, there is one thing you cannot ignore: the PSD proposal leads to a reduction in revenue and this reduction in revenue has an impact on next year's accounts. The honourable Member speaks of the surplus as if it were something sinful! No, sir, the surplus is something that will allow us not to pay any more taxes in the future. Mr President, if there is anything that we should all be proud of — the Left Block bench, the Communist Party bench, the Green Party bench and the Socialist Party bench — it is we who placed Portugal with the right accounts, and that is good, Mr President. What we cannot accept is proposals like this from the PSD. First, we will still have to go to the VAT committee. The gentlemen. Members will never raise this issue for the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it is all a matter of ease and you think that only on 1 October will it come into force. And the Left Block thinks that only because it does not appear in the PSD proposal that it has to go to the VAT Committee will not have to go! No, Mr President, as is not in the PSD proposal that this proposal has to go to the VAT Committee, it does not appear from the PSD proposal, now the cut in intermediate consumption that you cannot fully tolerate because the cuts in intermediate consumption that the PSD proposes to make to compensate for this revenue are a cut in the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u430	Excessive!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u431	They have now withdrawn, and have also withdrawn and omitted the need for consultation with the VAT Committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u432	The surplus is not the SNS!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u433	That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here with the calmness that we have to answer to the Portuguese and the future of the Portuguese. This is not only a matter of public accounts, it is also a matter of ensuring that the measure must be fair. So, Mr. Deputy, I'm done as I started. As the Left Block presented an intermediate proposal on its initial proposal, the Government also presented its proposal, a socially and environmentally just proposal, and it is for its approval that we call upon the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u434	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have concluded the debate, in the specialty, of the Bill No 5 / XIV / 1. a with the discussion of Article 1. o — Subject, two Members have already been registered. Members and a Member of Parliament. First of all, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Rocha Ferreira, from the PSD. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u435	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, with regard to combating corruption and crime, popular wisdom sums up this Budget well: « Look at what I say, do not look at what I do. » The government says one thing, but the budget that is presented to the Portuguese says another.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u436	It's true! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u437	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u438	See the situation of the Judicial Police: no money for the acquisition of weapons, no money for the acquisition of personal protective equipment, no money for the maintenance of the advanced-age car fleet, no money for technological renewal. How, then, can crime and corruption be combated without means? For the PSD, the allocation of funds so that both the Judicial Police and the Attorney General's Office of the Republic can perform their duties is essential, and we therefore propose that the funds allocated to these entities be strengthened. They are valid proposals, for a safer and fairer country, and they are concrete proposals, because only with reliable conversation is everything in the same. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u439	Mr Luís Testa, of the Socialist Party, continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u440	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when a State Budget is presented to the Assembly of the Republic, this bill should aim, in our view, at three essential commitments: on the one hand, economic growth, on the other hand, social justice and, on the third hand, budgetary balance, in which the two initial commitments fall.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u441	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u442	In fact, when the State Budget document comes to the Assembly of the Republic, in the form of a bill, it is aimed at being improved by adopting proposals that are given to it by all parliamentary groups in order to improve. There are parliamentary groups that put forward proposals aimed at economic growth, part of which are supported by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group and have green light to move forward to the document. Other proposals are to increase social justice that a balanced, developed and sustainable country must have to support those who need the most from the state — yes, from the state!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u443	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u444	However, there are proposals — and they are not rare — that aim at distorting the budgetary balance, which is essential for the country's governance to continue the path of economic growth and social justice. When these proposals are more or less hidden, when they come under the table, when the Portuguese have no idea that they are presented in order to distort the Government's proposal, there are those who do not know them and cannot debate them. In fact, what we have seen today was presented a proposal to devert the government's budget to prevent the country from being governed according to the popular will expressed in the ballot box,... [[PSD protests.]] ... proposed this aimed at preventing the country's governance with the objective of economic growth, social justice and budgetary balance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A legislature has a chronology. This is the first Budget of this Parliament, and all that we will do along it is not summarized, cannot be summarized in the first Budget. There are things that can be assumed since they are marks cast in this budget and which translate into policies for a whole legislature: the increase in Portuguese income, the creation of jobs, the acceleration of investment. It is in this Budget that we should concentrate, a Budget that has marks that are not the ones of the past, that were torturing the Portuguese, the families, the companies, which took their conditions and which pushed mainly the people out of the country. First of all, I refer to the priority given to health. In five years, there was an increase of more than 1900 million in health budgets.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u445	And still, it's worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u446	This year alone, there was an increase of EUR 941 million compared to last year's budget. And for what? To hire 8400 professionals, to remodel hospital infrastructures and health centers, to build hospitals, to acquire equipment. And what's the point of all this investment? To be put at the service of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am also referring to the fact that there is more public investment in transport, mobility and housing in this budget. It is indisputable that right parties attack public transport, mobility and housing policies. In the time of the PSD governments and the CDS-PP, public transport was the one that each of the elements of the public could arrange and housing was a thing that should only belong to the private initiative, which would pay for all over the country, as if there was no national plan to provide the Country with decent housing for all Portuguese. I am also talking about strengthening the fight against inequalities. In the Budget, there is an increase of more than 1300 million that reaches all social benefits, from the family allowance, the solidarity complement for the elderly, the social benefit for inclusion. And it has as its goal what? Put the Portuguese generality to live with more dignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u447	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u448	In conclusion, the last compromise, and perhaps the most diabolical one, but which does not cease to be a major undertaking, is that of being a Budget with a positive balance.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u449	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u450	In fact, a budget with a positive balance reduces public debt, the main threat to the Portuguese economy and the lives of Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u451	You have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Duarte Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u452	Mr President, after this prayer of wisdom, we returned to Earth and Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u453	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u454	The PS has discovered today that, after all, parliamentaryism is a bad thing and has also found that, after all, the most voted party is the one that deserves to govern. They're camcorders we don't understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u455	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u456	However, I wanted to talk about strengthening the budget of higher education institutions, which is very simple. The government usually has an initial allocation and repeatedly, in recent years, it is strengthening at the end of the year. With this, you can have the political presidents and the principals in your hand. We want to end this, even because the government has already said that there is no reinforcement this year and that if you want more money to pay wages, the institutions have to ask the treasury. What we propose is very simple: it is that, in the initial appropriation, the strengthening made last year should be included so that higher education institutions do not have to walk hand-in-hand waiting for the goodwill of the government. That is why we, like many other parties, defend this matter. It is a matter of transparency and, above all, and again, to put an end to what is the image of this Budget, which are the government's manoeuvres, which budget one thing and then execute another. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u457	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are thus done this morning. The work will continue this afternoon... I'm sorry, but we're not done yet. Mr Afonso Oliveira asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u458	Mr President, I would still like to make an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u459	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u460	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys, at the end of the debate, in the speciality of the State budget, it is important that we are all calmer, calmer. Democracy is working. This is the time to propose alternatives to what has so far been presented by the Government and of all thinking and taking on its responsibilities. In addition to the electricity VAT rate, I wanted to talk about what happened over these days. We have tabled 66 amendments, of which 14 have already been adopted, and there will still be votes this afternoon. We have adopted a proposal that ensures that no military of the Armed Forces earns less than the minimum wage. A proposal from the PSD has been adopted which requires the count of the time of service of fishermen to have a fairer reform. Proposals have been adopted within the framework of justice. They are proposals for a single purpose: to improve the budget and the lives of the Portuguese. As we have said during these days of debate, it is not up to the opposition to presenting an alternative budget and this is still a bad budget. What we have done here today has been to propose an alternative to the policy of increasing the tax burden that the Government has submitted. on our part, the proposal we have tabled is an option to reduce the tax burden, a gradual reduction of the tax burden that will positively affect all Portuguese. This is what happened here today. Democracy is working. It is important that the Government be calm in this matter and, in our view, after what has happened in these days, and even today, all parliamentary groups and all Members must assume their responsibilities. I think today is a day when it is important to have courage and responsibility, which is our key word in all this process,... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ...and vote according to what matters to the Portuguese. As we have said today, the Portuguese will not realize that there is a decision that does not go by approving our proposal to reduce the tax burden of Portuguese and return income to people.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u461	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u462	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, today is an important day, but for inverse reasons to those referred to by the Socialist Party, for reasons of responsibility. on our part, that is our commitment to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u463	The Government has signalled to the Bureau that it is still seeking to make an intervention. To that end, Mr Duarte Cordeiro, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u464	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government does not share the conclusions that Mr Afonso Oliveira has just mentioned. This debate is not characterized by what you have just mentioned, it is characterized by a tremendous irresponsibility on the part of the PSD from beginning to end. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, at the beginning of this debate, I made an intervention in which I said that the debate is democratic—and that is! — we must respect Parliament and all its decisions. But the debate is also responsible, and you have to take full account of the consequences of the decisions you will make, whether or not they create the conditions for ruling the country. These things are said in these terms and there is no other way to say them, Mr President. How did the PSD feature in this debate? It was characterized by voting a pension measure in a sense of regret. [[PSD Member Protest Duarte Marques.]] It was characterized by voting a measure on the solidarity supplement for the elderly in a sense of regret. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] He was characterized by Mr. Members suspend public works that are under way. A short time ago, you said that the works are not in progress and that the competitions are not open. The contests are open, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! There are competitors for the works that you are suspending. And, as I recall, the PSD had never suspended works during the budgetary debate in Parliament. However, I am sorry, Mr, but this debate is characterized by a huge irresponsibility of the PSD. It is irresponsibility to change a proposal at the last hour in a way that is not even transparent. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] So far, in this debate on VAT, you are talking about VAT. Members said they would make compensation for the reduction of the expenditure they had proposed. They put forward two proposals, one without compensation and the other with compensation, leaving us all waiting to know what it meant to have one without compensation and the other with compensation. And they invented a terminology, according to which we had to pay the proposal without compensation. When they realized that, of course, your proposal, without compensation, had no budgetary coverage, you said: "Then we have another one here. We have another one here with compensation! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” They're going to do the math, they say it costs 175 million, but they're making up two hundred and such a million. This was the proposal of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen! This is a journey. That's the line that you guys are on. Members have followed this VAT debate. And now, at the last hour, on the eve...
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u465	That's when there was a fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u466	On the eve of the vote, not on the afternoon of the vote, ladies and gentlemen. Members give the floor for not saying, and after all, they take the compensation, calculate compensation of EUR 80 million when we say it is 200! And they don't explain how they're gonna make up for this next year! No Portuguese knows how you will make up for this next year! You're gonna make up for how? What's the answer? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Afonso Oliveira.]] There's not only Budget this year! Mr President, I am going to tell you one more thing: when we are talking about extraordinary increases, we can talk about one year, but when you cut the structural revenue, you cannot come here saying that they will do so in October and that they only have compensation for this year! You have to explain how you expect the country to accommodate more or less a cut, in the coming years, similar to what we have increased in the National Health Service this year! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's about the same measure, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! And the part that we do not understand — we do not understand or understand anyone — is how you call it responsible! What is the part of the'responsible' that Mr. Are you guys having to have us not understand? If you want to be serious, come back as you had! Compare if someone is available to pay the compensations you really believe in, which are the compensations necessary to pay that, and let's see what the result of the vote is. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u467	There isn't! It's none!
ParlaMint-PT_2020-02-05.u468	I believe that we have now reached the end of this long morning's work, which will continue late in the Commission. Tomorrow, the plenary will meet again at 10 a.m. with the discussion of the rules and their vote, to be followed by the closing period. I wish everyone and everyone a good afternoon's work. See you tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 4 minutes.]]
