ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I'm warning you that the 7.20 points have been left for another time. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the government of David Lachaga, the parliamentary members of the Usurgent Party, made to the Administration and Justice of the People, not to give public Administration and documents about the right of the people." Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u1	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Mr. Erkorek, good morning to you. You have sometimes said that the Administration has its origin and its object. After all, the citizen gives the administration legitimacy, and the administration has its own justification in giving service to the citizen. And in order to give these services, we need to increase the conjunction between the popular administration. You yourself have said that you are ready to penetrate more than once into the co-workership of the organizations. We've got new techs on the line, so we have to build information systems for each other, so that we can offer something that's good for the people. What kind of steps are they taking to complete these goals? That is to say, this idea or idea, which we call REVOIDITY, or CONCERNING, interopdad, brings with it what advantage, advantage, utility, or effect, to him who receives service, and also to the Administration? And a second question, Mr Erkoreka, to the thread of interoperability: can we contemplate the idea of the single window as a scenario to which public administrations can reach within a temporary framework not too far away? I ask you this because I believe that we must prevent competition from forcing our neighbours and neighbours to be real specialists in public administration, and I understand that progress towards the single window is a necessity that citizens demand from the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u2	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. In reply, Mr. Erkokong's got a word to say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. Mr. Lachaga, as you have well remarked in your first interference, there are three parameters which are essential here. On the one hand, the new possibilities offered by the new technology to increase the organization of the administration in a more efficient manner for the citizen's service. In other words, the command of the law itself, and thirdly the respect and service which we owe to the citizen himself. Since the adoption of the Citizens'Electronic Access to Public Services Act, which took place in 2007, the citizen has already had the right not to provide the administration with the data and information that he or she has not been in possession of, but that he or she has been in possession of, the public administration as a whole. And the law already established in 2007, I insist, in this regard, that in order to give effect to this right, it was essential that public administrations interact with each other, establish the mechanisms of interoperability necessary to ensure that access to mutual information, the exchange of information, could be produced through electronic means, collecting that information and always from the utmost respect for the personal data of citizens, that access to them requires permission, the authorization of the person holding that personal data. The Basque Government has for a long time been committed to implementing this provision of the law, to ensuring the effective enforcement of this right in Euskadi, and for a long time now we have been working intensively with the rest of the public administrations operating in Euskadi (with the General State Administration, with the outside and municipal administrations) to put in place inter-agency collaboration instruments that make it possible to implement this right. To this end, we have already signed a number of agreements in order to make it possible to provide administrative information and e-management services to one another. We have already signed a number of agreements with numerous large and medium-sized municipalities, those with their own computer resources, and in a few weeks' time we are going to sign a new agreement, three agreements with the outside parliaments, which are certainly going to be strategic, because they represent a qualitative extension of those who have been operating, with effects so far, and they are going to expand the provision of services and they are going to lay the foundations for the future of more effective and much wider intercommunication and exchange of data without the need to renew the agreements. For an idea to be made of exactly what this is supposed to mean, since the system was launched, in still incipient, partial and very fragmentary terms, more than 4 million data have been transmitted among public administrations in Euskadi. This means that the citizens have been saved 4 million steps that they had to take personally and that they will no longer do. From the signing of these agreements with the parliaments and the implementation of the mechanisms envisaged there, these figures are going to multiply exponentially, and we will not yet be in the field of the single window, but we will be taking qualitative steps towards that horizon of the single window, which must be the objective, I believe, of the public administrations from the moment when the interconnection between them makes possible the electronic exchange of data, always in the attention and service of the citizen, which is the task, the foundation and the ultimate destination of the action of the public administrations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u4	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Second point on the subject list: "Ask me, Jule's Arzuaga Gumuzius EH Collectors to the President, the prisoner who is ill in North Ibon." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, good morning to all. And to the comrades of the First Polisarius who are with us, good morning. We have treated the state of the poor prisoner of Ibon in the North of England more than once in this legislature. We have heard the occurrences of the family; we have proposed, and approved, to claim their freedom. Our novels about the North, from one moment to the next, always make it worse. His illness, the AIDS, has come with other problems: for the evil which he has in his brain, he has almost entirely lost his sight, and has put Ibon into the hands of attacks or robberies in prison. In addition to all this, the North is dispersed. He was wild, but from the wildness of the field he was taken from Navalcarner to Navalcarnero and from Navalcarnero to Alcalá Meco. That's what's made her medical, her medical treatment. This has made it difficult for him to take other delicate measures to smooth his illness, which is prejudicial to his security, which renders his relationship to his family more difficult to secure or to receive warmth from his family. North is not allowed to exist on an ordinary module. The North cannot be in isolation. Northeast can't be in prison nursery. The North cannot be dispersed. It follows from this that Northeast cannot remain in prison, that it is absolutely incompatible with his illness. The serious and incurable illness suffered by prisoner Ibon Iparragire requires a solution in humanitarian terms. This Parliament has already taken a stand calling for their freedom. Without rejecting this solution, reaffirming ourselves in the demand for his freedom, today we make another proposal because we have another priority. Ibon Iparragire, dispersed in Alcalá Meco, 450 kilometers from his place of origin, will come to attend a trial for minor cases on October 20th in courts in Bilbao. It is not confirmed, but it may have already been taken from Alcalá Meco to Zaballa prison, right here. I may now be in a prison here at Euskal Herria. Undoubtedly, it cannot be confirmed, but driving will not have been easy for you, it will not have been comfortable in the state you are in. We must prevent him, after the judicial proceedings in Bilbao have been completed, from being taken back to dispersal, from being taken back to isolation, to unprotected, away from the attention of his doctors, away from the attention of his family and his loved ones. It would be fatal for her to be dispersed again. We take this case with great concern. What do you think, Mr President? What can you do? What can we do? What can your government do that Ibon of Northragire in a state of severe illness, in a Euscal prison in the Basque Country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u6	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. Mr. Azuga, we've explained the position of M.M. We're straight on the road, we're on our way, we're talking about the show. You know, it's just fun to say that he's against prison policy to get away from. We've arranged to structure a process near the prison stations. And thus he sees, and foresees the Law of Prison in Article 121 of the General Law of the Union. In the case of sick prisoners, it's a favor to establish humanitarian proportions to ease their condition. In an incurable disease, and in a very serious case, it may be used the 104.4 article of prison legislation, which, after classified by those patients in the third degree, allows them to be removed from prison. In the case of the North Ibon, the Human Rights Committee has requested the use of that opportunity which the law foresees. And in answer to your question, the RedMork protects the request, and we do our best to find the humanitarian solutions based on the chances that the legal world accepts, and about what happens in these days, maybe you know what we're doing. Most of the time, we do it discreetly and noiselessly, and that's what we're doing in this case too. We are following his progress closely, and we make all the necessary relations and managements, in order that his condition may improve as quickly as possible. The Basque Government has never failed to do everything possible to propose and seek humanitarian solutions for sick prisoners, depending on the possibilities of the legal framework. We do so with discretion, and also in this case Ibon Iparragire we follow closely its evolution. He knows that these days we are also doing it with special intensity, maintaining contacts and efforts with the aim of improving his situation as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Arzuga mustn't speak. Third point in theme list: "The question is, that the members of the United States of the Basque Society are transferred to the Chief of Police, to the 4/2011 Medical Services of Society." Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u9	Egun where we're supposed to be. Lehendakari, counselor... We also greet the representatives of the Frente Polisario who are accompanying us in the House today. Over the past two years, the number of families without financial assistance in times of need has increased. We are talking about people, families with serious difficulties in reaching the end of the month, to meet urgent needs for the progressive precariousness of working conditions and wages, and we are talking about people who have been unemployed too long and who have exhausted their unemployment benefit. The Socialists defend the public system of social protection as a tool of solidarity and cohesion, so that no one is deprived of a minimum income that covers basic needs in times of need. And while it is true that in Euskadi the network of institutional solidarity, the family and that of social organizations themselves are alleviating the effects of the crisis, many people are staying out of the system. In our monograph on employment and poverty, held on 7 November, we adopted, among other resolutions, a review of the package of aid and social benefits requirements in order to assess possible harmful consequences for potential beneficiaries. And not to consider real estate, for the purpose of denying the benefit, those real estate other than usual housing (i.e. non-housing) that have a value lower than the annual amount of GIR that would correspond in the total absence of income. And in this sense, the socialists register at the beginning of the year a non-law proposal concerning the adequacy of the decree regulating social emergency aid, precisely in order to respond to those people who, having justified the need, are being left out by situations that the economic crisis has uncovered. This decree imposed property standards to prevent the fraudulent use of social emergency aid, and the time and effects of the crisis have shown that these limits leave the door open to exclusion, because a shared inheritance in a building, a land, a piece of land that has not just been sold, are restricting access to the system to people with genuine emergencies and who have no liquidity; people who have assets but cannot sell, and who have no money to face the costs of basic necessities and the costs of housing. That is why the Socialists proposed the amendment of the decree, that the criterion of ownership be changed to that of liquidity, with all the cautions that the Government considers. The amendment of the decree regulating social emergency aid is the sole and exclusive competence of the Government. After eight months since the adoption of this initiative, and close to the end of 2015, we ask you at what stage is the amendment of Decree 4/2011, of the Social Emergency Aids, to give response to those people who, having justified the need, are staying out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u10	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. I'm sure you're the one who's the one who's talking to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u11	Mr. President, the chairman, the chief physician, the congressman, good morning. The Basque parliament, March, had been talking about another proposal of service in social distress with the propriety of the decree, and he asked Euko MUDY to take a step to change it in 2015. In response to the parliamentary request, a meeting of the Inter-Agency Commission for Social Inclusion was convened by the Department of Employment and Social Policy on 21 May, since the commencement of any processing of the dossier relating to such legislative change requires the prior agreement of that body. From Eudel, dated 15 May 2015 it was sent written to the Basque Government to indicate that its representatives would not be able to attend the meeting, because they were responsible for the electoral process. In view of the fact that the amendments to the decree directly affect management and that they are being carried out from the municipalities, the meeting was suspended as soon as possible, with the commitment that this meeting should be held as soon as possible. Eudel asked the department to hold a technical meeting with the new municipal representatives, which took place on 7 October. And we will proceed immediately to reconvene the Inter-Institutional Commission for Social Inclusion, hoping that the meeting can be held without further delay and that this will lead to the processing of the file amending Decree 4/2011, which regulates social emergency aid. However, I can assure you that we have worked on the reform of the contents, to bring them to your debate and approval as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u12	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Lady Sarah, your word is yours. He mustn't speak. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Groups of Laura Garrido Knörre made to the president about fulfilling the objectives of the employment world." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Argi dago Gobernu honek ez dituela betetzen enplegu Arloan dituen konpromisoak. This Government is failing to fulfil its employment commitments, the objectives that have been set. In a recent appearance in relation to the evaluation of the 2014 actions relating to the 2014-2016 Employment Plan, the Employment and Social Policy Advisor told us that our brokering figures are very low, 2.6%. And the target is 5%, but it wasn't going to be met. Gobernu Honek ezin ditu bete enpleguari buruz finkatuta dituen errornkak. This Government is unable to meet the challenges in employment. He followed the counselor in the same appearance: "We have a subject pending in this, and in Lanbide the greatest concern is the work intermediation". Mr Lehendakari, who have come to this point, it would be useful for you to clarify some of the issues relating to this issue. Komenigarria izango litzateke gai honetan gauza batzuk argitzea. Are objectives set that are unable to meet? Are they unable in this Government to meet the objectives set? And what criteria have led this government that you preside over to renounce the achievement of the objectives of employment, of employment intermediation, one of the main problems of Basque citizens?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u14	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, employment remains the central objective of this government, and we have not given up on the objectives set. And, in fact, we're fulfilling them. I remind you that employment is growing in Euskadi for the first time since the start of the crisis. This year employment is going to increase by 1.6%, and the coming 1.7%. We are the first to say that this is not enough, and we will continue to concentrate on the task until we recover pre-crisis employment. We have never been complacent, but neither have we allowed catastrophic visions. You have had and have responsibilities of government, with results that would also advise a little more prudence and humility in raising this issue in this way, as it arises. And I remind you that the 5% target for work mediation is set by this House, by this House, and we have not given up, although we are realistic. We have made a commitment to work to achieve this. I'm just telling you that between 2013 and 2014 we've increased the brokerage rate by 19.2%. I'm just telling you that we've managed to overcome the barrier of the 5,000 companies that work with Lanbide, when two years earlier there were less than 4,000 companies. Today we are the third community of the state in labor intermediation, and our goal is to be the first. The recent reorganization and internal agreement reached in Lanbide I am sure will help us achieve this goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u17	Look, Mr. Lehendakari, we're not the first community. We are not pioneers here, because there are other communities that you know very well, as Mr Alustiza, former director of Lanbide, acknowledged in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, that there were other communities that went ahead, such as Extremadura and Andalusia. Therefore, the first one on this subject is not. And the first is not despite the huge amount of public resources allocated to Lanbide: EUR 822 million, 900 workers. And then the councilman in a recent appearance in this Parliament tells us, and remains so wide, that the companies pass from Lanbide. Because you have to have a quiver so that a government, in this case the councillor, makes this statement, with the figures I'm giving you. Yes, yes!, said companies pass from Lanbide. Since you make a reference to the mandates of this House, another of the mandates of this House approved on the proposal of the People's Party, it was that Lanbide's offer was appropriate to the demand for workers, and nothing at all. Nothing at all. Can you tell me, today in this rostrum, what are you doing to bring that offer into line with the existing demand? Because with these figures, and saying that companies pass from Lanbide, I understand that you seem a little bit more or less like you've thrown out the towel. So, Mr Lehendakari, what credibility can a government have in fulfilling its promises in a matter, in one of the main subjects, in one of the essential subjects, such as employment, unemployment suffered by many Basque citizens? That is the main concern of Basque citizens! That's the one that shows up every day in the polls. And, look, commitment acquired not only by the mandate of this House, yes, in a resolution in Lanbide's strategic plan, but also because Mr. Alustiza himself said in that commission (it was that he was director of Lanbide; now he is not director of Lanbide but..., well, he is director of Lanbide, it's true), that the parties are played... They make it even worse for me, for this gentleman to continue saying that the parties are played at the last minute, and that he is unable to fulfil his commitments. From 2,1 % at the beginning of the legislature, to 2,6 %. Other communities win us, you set a goal that you are unable to meet, and above all you tell us that companies pass from Lanbide. But, Mr. Lehendakari! That's right, then you come here and you tell us that for this government the important thing is people. Look, Mr Lehendakari, every time you make this statement and then come with this statement to this rostrum, the reality of the facts fades further, and the credibility of your Government is further questioned.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u18	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Garrido, if all the topics you have are prepared as you have prepared this second intervention after the first one, with all the wrong data... You have come here in this second intervention referring to the objective of being the first, or to the finding or affirmation that I supposedly would have made that we are the first community, when I said we are the third community. You didn't listen to me. And I told him that we are not complacent, that we have much to do, that we have managed to overcome the barrier of the 5,000 companies that work for Lanbide or that work with Lanbide, when two years earlier there were less than 4,000 companies. I insist that the recent reorganization and internal agreement reached in Lanbide will help us achieve this. I have as objectives a greater orientation to the company. At the moment we are, yes, focused on the unemployed person, but it is necessary to take a step further and get a thorough knowledge of the companies. I also aim at close contact with companies; that Lanbide be perceived as an effective collaborator, adopting a more collaborative and participatory model. I also aim at a model of consultation and planning with the differential reality of the regions. But don't always look away. You too can do much more to improve work intermediation. I will mention three initiatives that would help to improve this ratio. One, repealing the employment reforms of the Spanish Government, especially the last of 2014. Two, comply with the Gernika Statute and transfer to Euskadi the tools for the implementation of employment policies, both active and passive. This means complying with the Statute, which is an organic law, which the Spanish Government of its party is failing to comply with. And three, stop the Spanish Government's ongoing aggression against the capacities recognized in Royal Decree 1441/2010 of 5 November 2010 on the implementation of active employment policies, which has forced the Spanish Government to institute remedies of competitive conflict. I invite you to promote these legal initiatives, and we will all improve the ratios. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question of Gorka Maneiro Labay's Mistto, a member of PresidentyD's Parliament for the State Administration and the Chief of Justice, Pinsolus. " Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u21	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Mr Lehendakari, spokesman for the Basque Government, the Pinosolo case is not closed, it is still alive and it has to be clarified. Let us remember that a commission of inquiry was set up in the City of Leioa which issued strong conclusions and denounced serious irregularities, mismanagement, waste of public money, privileged information, clientelism and political (and I say political) responsibilities in the figure of Mr Arruebarrena. Let us remember that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government are relocating this gentleman to Metro Bilbao at a certain time as managing director. A number of parliamentary initiatives are then discussed in this Parliament. One of them, the last in particular, is to ask the Government to be removed. A political agreement was finally reached between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party to save that request and save the Government. But it is decided to refer this matter to the Ethics Committee of the Basque Government, despite the fact that both groups knew that this committee had no competence. This is indeed what the committee says in its opinion: it is not competent to analyse these facts. In the light of all this, I ask you whether the Government will continue to defend Mr Arruebarrena's position in view of the political responsibilities incumbent on him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u22	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, I actually had the opportunity about two months ago to take a decision on this issue, in connection with the consultation that was given to the Ethics Committee, which I have the honour to chair. And there we found, indeed, that the person to whom you refer is not a high office of this Government; he is a director of a public society that depends on a consortium, one of whose members is the Basque Government. And, therefore, he is a person who is not included in the scope of the Law 1/2014 of this Parliament, which establishes the regime of conflicts of interest and the conditions of good governance. As a result, that person is also not included in the catalogue of high-ranking posts that the Government has to publish periodically, and therefore neither the Ethics Commission nor I are universally qualified to issue ethical judgments in relation to all persons performing public functions in all administrations. We do not pronounce ourselves in relation to this person, nor do we pronounce ourselves in relation to the thousand and one situations that occur throughout the Spanish State, or the world, with high offices whose actions may be accused or denounced by the opposition. And less, therefore, when in the case to which you refer there has been a judicial investigation, which, as sure as it is not hidden from you, has recently concluded with an archival agreement. From the moment that the Office of the Prosecutor decides to file a case, therefore, special reason for the public administration not to pay particular attention to a situation that does not fall within its competence, as you have rightly pointed out. It is not the competence of the Ethics Commission, but it is also not the competence of this adviser to issue universal ethical judgments on all senior positions in all public administrations. That is why I suppose you will understand that you do not have to speak to me either on this case or on any other case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u24	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u25	Mr Erkoreka, if you knew perfectly well that this Ethics Committee is not competent, why do you agree to a transaction with the Socialist Group to bring this matter to the Ethics Committee? Why do they do it? To buy time? To disguise? To prevent this Parliament from asking for his dismissal? We are going to put forward an initiative next week for this Parliament to ask for its dismissal, because we believe that political responsibilities are still there. And, therefore, this Parliament has to take a strong stand on this issue. With regard to the prosecutor's statement in which the case is closed, we consider it to be a genuine misconception. It seems more like a defense plea than an attempt to start a process that seeks the truth. The main reason why you file Pinosolo is by prescription, but that prescription is not argued, no dates or deadlines are set. And, in our opinion, we must continue to investigate. We must continue to denounce this matter politically, and judicially we must continue to investigate. What is clear is that what he has not prescribed are the political responsibilities perfectly pointed out in the Leioa City Council commission of inquiry. That's not prescribed. And he didn't prescribe mismanagement at the Leioa City Hall either. Nor has he prescribed his refusal, Mr Arruebarrena's, to cooperate in the committee of inquiry. Nor does it refuse to respond to the parliamentary groups in this Parliament. And neither is the relocation of this person to an entity like Metro Bilbao. All this has not been prescribed, and we will therefore continue to defend and demand from the Government that this Government, the members of the Government represented on the board of directors, continue to demand their removal. Political responsibilities are perfectly proven, it is an absolute scandal, and of course we reserve the right to conduct further judicial proceedings. New judicial proceedings to make the truth known. There's a way, you can do it, and we're going to study that way. Perfectly demonstrated political responsibilities, and the judiciary obviously needs to be dealt with in the future. And that's what we want to keep doing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u26	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. I am extremely surprised, Mr Maneiro, that a person so habitually attached to the judiciary and to the Public Prosecutor's Office, who systematically appeals to them, who claims his pronouncements when they favor him, and who above all expresses his purpose systematically to make use of them (see, yesterday, the objective was to have all the advisers of the Basque Government arrested), someone so attached to the judiciary and the Public Prosecutor's Office, it turns out that he openly disallows a decision of the Public Prosecutor's Office because he simply does not like it. It is that you have openly denied a decree of the Bizkaia Prosecutor's Office issued after eight months of investigation with the support of the Judicial Police (which has not been the Ertzaintza either, look, it has been the National Police), which formally agrees to file the investigation proceedings. And you say, "No, no! Much more needs to be investigated." I suppose you will accept that this decree of the Prosecutor's Office is pronounced in law – with the law in force, which you invoke permanently and require its application – and I suppose you will respect that resolution even if it is not your liking. I want to guess. With regard to the political responsibilities that you say still exist, look, the best thing you can do is to stand in the municipal elections in Leioa, get a position in the plenary of the city hall, and demand from there what you have to do in the strictly political field, for which you have absolutely legitimacy. But please do not insist one and a thousand times on appealing to the Judiciary and the Prosecutor's Office, when such an obvious, clear agreement of the Bizkaia Prosecutor's Office, after an investigation of many months with the support of the Judicial Police, is resolved as it is resolved. Do not disallow it so clearly just because it is not your liking. Man, let us not prosecute judicial decisions on the basis of political interests.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u28	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Number of points in theme list: "Interliberation by Daniel Mazzu Perez EH Collectors to the President, in order to fulfill the law of Parliament for the prosecution of the United States, in proportion as he rejoices." Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President, and good morning to all the other departments. We're doing this Interlation with a very specific purpose, and that's what we want to know about the government's behavior as a franchise. We knew it before, we've had it pretty clear up until now, which was the attitude of the Eukong, which was favourable. The chief promoter of this technique has been in Euskal Autonomy Er member, to direct a public firm and demand permission so that the franchise could be carried on in the Basque Autonomy community and other societies. But the situation is quite altered, and it is quite changed now that we have admitted a law in this Chamber, because at the end of June we agreed that a law was derived from a legislative of the people, and a law approved by the political majority. So we think the situation's totally changed, and that's why we want to know what an attitude of Eusking is at this moment, or rather, about exploiting or examining non-conventional fossil fuels. After the law had been accepted, it would be the most logical for us to see what the discussion was to destroy the fracing a, and to destroy, or to renounce the exploitation of non-commissioned fossil fuels. But is that really the way you feel about it? That's what we want to know. To understand what the spirit of this law was, and why we say the most logical, the most logical reading would be to destroy the fracing at the present moment, I will read three sentences of the law which is adopted in this Chamber, which are very significant to us, in the time when the spirit of that law was known and revealed to us. And in this sense of the Law, it is said: "To bet on the front of the fracing as a narcotic is a very remarkable mistake. For at this time of our lives, the means we have, every means and every force, are necessary to lead us to a rapid transition to a small carbon-stripe model." I think it's pretty clear what the idea of that law was about, because it's a remarkable mistake to bet on the franchise. I recall again that this law was introduced into this chamber with a legislature of a people above 100,000 signatures, and that the political majority, in these three sentences, admitted what is recorded. So I think the message was very clear. We were conscious of this discussion, in this dispute of the law, which we ought to have respected and respected, because we wanted to have an efficient law to destroy the fracching, or at least to forbid it. But another message was very clear to us by that law. We need no fracing, because we don't want any fracing and need no exploitation of non-commissioned fossil fuels, but the use of this country, in this case, we believe that the innate strategy of this community must go in another direction. We don't just do this kind of interpretation. I believe that this reading was sufficiently clear in society and communications, that the franchise should be abolished in this community. But, it seems, we didn't make this reading by ourselves, a spokesman of the EEtle of the Pure Party in this legislative power, said very clearly in an interview made by the Light in the paper: "What we've been saying to you is clever: stop fracking." So I think we can read enough reading after that law. But is that really the way you feel about it? To find out, we asked a few questions, we asked the Industrial Department a few questions. And we're pretty worried after reading the answers. First of all we asked him what the effect of that new law is on his hands. And he alone quoted a direct consequence or effect of the law, and there is a prohibition about the production of guinea-polypheros. It is established in the law that in the middle, high, or very high stages of creation it cannot be made of trees. And that's what the Industrial Department used to say in his answer. But he did not mention other effects: he did not mention that we had changed the Common-wealth, and the Law of Towns, of the Esquider of Eunomy, with a very clear message, and that on the Unvarying soil the technique of Fracing cannot be used. It's not said whether it's for exploration or exploitation or not. Message is very clear: You can't use that technique. So we think the conclusion is very exact, because if any drill is made to extract non-conventional fuel, I do not care whether it be to explore or explore, it must be in an inexplicable land. I think we'll all agree on that. So we believe that technique is prohibited by the Euscal Autonomia Erdigo. But the Bureau of Industries said nothing about it in his answer. And we don't know why that is. And he did not mention another conclusion, or another necessary necessity, which is that any plan or strategy which foresees to exploit fossil fuels, should be made of the strategic evaluation of the environment. And at this moment, in this community, we have a strategy, a bold strategy. And he didn't have it or he didn't get it from the strategic evaluation. So it is necessary that, before any drilling, or any non-conventional fossil fuel, it should be effected. And he didn't even mention that in his own replies from the Industrial Department. So we want to know why that is. We don't think that these two conclusions we've mentioned affect the licenses of the bureau right now. However, the answer that really surprised us was this: When we asked him whether the group was still planning to explore or exploit hydrocarbures through the art of fracing or, in this case, was rather surprising the answer: "To know Mysteries and the minerals is a duty and responsibility, an impregnable hand-especially a Euskeach. The question was very exact: "Are you still planning, or aren't you? "And the answer is that knowing energy resources is a duty. So, you guys still plan? Is that your answer? For this would be very serious to us, because it is a democratic privilege to act contrary to the public and the political majority. And I am speaking of a government which acts contrary to the political majority of men, as I have said before, that this law was introduced into this legislature by a legislator over 100,000 persons, and by a political majority. And that's what I've read before she was very clear what the message we wanted to get out and what the law we've accepted was. So it seems that, reading the answers, he's looking for the openings of the Eusk0 to prevent it, and that he's following with his plan to examine and exploit the non-conventional fuel. And if so, it would be very serious. So that's why we make this interference, and we hope we'll get some information.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u30	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, chief of departments, and members of the legislature, good days to all. First of all, Mr. Mazetu, you seem to have said at the beginning of your interaction that we're in the Basque Country over and over again, but that's not the case, and I'd like to make it clear. And as for the maximum strategy, you know too that fun has two major lines, that's what's going on. on the one hand, the renewed energy, on the other the most energetic efficiency. So let's put things back. On the other hand, it is true that this legislature in the 30th of June admitted by majority that the process of abolishing the non-commissioned Hydro-braciots and that this law was admitted by majority. And for this purpose, that this law alters two laws: In 2006, the Law of the Earth and of the City, and the Law of the Us, were admitted into this parliament. The aim is to harden certain articles, and prevent the chances of exploiting my neuronological resources by a lack of technique in Basque Autonomy, which is clear enough. But, as you know, after the law was approved, the state government sent a formal request to the Basque Mitch, so he'd call a partnership committee during the expected deadlines. Thus the central Government makes this co-worker of the co-operation of the jurisdictions of each administration, in some measure, to examine and fix the jurisdictions of the several administrations, and to repair these differences. And at the same time, if there are differences, it will also open the way to present the appeal to the Constitutional Court, as you know. You know also, when this law was discussed, that the party which supports this government suggested extension, and that this technique offered better inquiry and improvements of art. But all this took place in a heated dispute, in order to establish the results of the elections, or in this group, and some extraordinary changes of opinion took place, and things reached the place where they arrived. If so, the result of what the central government has foretold, we are in a kind of impasse. In the Jurisdictions of the Common-wealths of Guernica, the lawfull Soveraignty of the Law is in some sort doubted; and we shall certainly go to that Assembly, with a strong intention of defending it. And there is no doubt that even the Predainer mentioned that this Macanax will defend himself thus: I'm sorry, this government, the 30th of June, will defend the text that was accepted on this legislature. I would like to make it clear, Mr Maeztu, that, throughout your speech, it seemed to me to understand that the government is fracking, it seems that one day we are doing it and another day we are not, and that is not true. There is no such technique at this time in Euskadi. And, once we have clarified that the government is going to defend the competition framework and the sovereignty of the Basque Parliament to put in place and to pass laws, from a practical and legal point of view, I would like to analyse the impact of this legislation – because that is what we are doing at the moment – on the permits that the EVE has in particular to SHESA society, which, by the way, is not fracking, I insist, but is simply analysing and carrying out an environmental impact study, which is being revised in the light of what impacts the new law. It should also be noted that there is no legislation, either in the State or in Europe, prohibiting the exploitation or exploration of non-conventional hydrocarbons. There are two European Parliament resolutions in 2012 which established that the decision to explore non-conventional gas (exploring, investigating) corresponds to each of the states of the Union, and that environmental concerns can be addressed through other stricter regulations, depending on what each one says. In addition, on 22 January 2014, it recently made a number of recommendations concerning minimum principles for the exploration and production of hydrocarbons using hydraulic fracturing. It says so, a number of minimum principles, which are already widely exceeded at the stage we were at at the moment, in the environmental impact study, when the law was passed in Parliament. With regard to the approved law, and with some of the articles that have been amended, article 3 amends article 28 of Law 2/2006 on Soil and Urbanism, and states that "on land classified as non-urbanized land, in the case of hydrocarbon use, hydraulic fracture technology is not permitted when it may have negative effects on the geological, environmental, landscape or socio-economic characteristics of the area, or in relation to other areas of competence of the Basque Autonomous Community, depending on what the instruments of territorial, urban and environmental management establish". Textually. And it limits exploitation to the absence of negative environmental effects. But such negative effects must be determined and assessed by administrative resolution of the substantive body in the course of the environmental impact assessment procedure, which is what we are developing. Therefore, what we need to do is to prepare the environmental impact study, and that the relevant body will analyse whether this impact really exists or not. Previously there is no such resolution. Therefore, we understand that we have to deal with what this law says and analyze it specifically. With regard to article 4 of Law 6/2015, he said that, in general, any sectoral plan, programme or strategy, as you said, must have a strategic environmental assessment. Today we only have the strategy already approved, and, as you well know – I have said on more than one occasion – we are reviewing the energy strategy, and it is also being called Energy Strategy 2025. That is when you will have to have your corresponding strategic environmental assessment, not before. There is a plan already approved by this House, a strategy already approved, and it is in the new one where this has to exist. It can't be any other way. The actions that have been contemplated so far, the analysis that is being evaluated from SHESA, is neither a plan nor a strategy. The strategy is, I insist, the energy strategy. Article 5 adds a new paragraph to article 29.1 of Law 1/2006, of the Water Act – you have also referred to it – and talks about the risk of medium, high or very high vulnerability. Well, it doesn't refer to those places of low vulnerability, very low or not appreciable. It will therefore have to be analysed as well. We are not going, a priori, to analyze what is happening! This environmental impact assessment will have to be considered. In conclusion, article 6 states that "the authorities and public officials of the Administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country shall ensure respect for and compliance with the provisions of this Law and shall take, within their respective powers, appropriate measures for the cessation of activities carried out in contravention of the provisions of this Law, as well as the replenishment of the situation altered to its original state". Textually, I insist. In other words, it provides for the cessation of any activity that contravenes the law, but that there is no activity that contravenes the law, nor is there any need to replace any altered situation, since nothing has been altered. As the Government of the Basque Autonomous Community has been working on this issue, no action has been found to be contrary to the law passed or to the previous laws, nor to this law in this case, nor has any action been taken on the territory in any way. Therefore, I insist, there is no need to work on any replenishment. Therefore, despite the complex legal scenario that has now been drawn up with the initiative launched by the Madrid Executive, we must confront the bilateral commission, as I said, in which I reiterate our willingness to defend the law. And we are analyzing on time each and every one of the articles of the approved law and analyzing how they affect the permits we have at this time in force. Nothing against the law, but quite the contrary, strictly complying with what is in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u33	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Once again, they continue to play with words. Of course I'm talking about fracking, but you don't tell the whole truth when you say you're not fracking. The Basque Government, through a 100 per cent public company, has requests for various investigative permits for non-conventional resources. What is the way to extract non-conventional resources today? The hydraulic fracture, right now. And in these permits it is also pointed out what the technique will be used, both in the exploration (because in the exploration it is also made probes and the technique is used) and later in the exploitation. Because do you want to tell us that you are asking for research permits for non-conventional resources without the intention to exploit? An investigation permit is requested, and the law of the hydrocarbon sector says so... "The granting of an investigation permit confers on the holder an exclusive right to obtain operating concessions." The investigation, the investigation permits, are held to obtain operating permits. You have signed contracts with American companies for the exploitation of fracking. Or do you mean to tell me that Petrichor and Cambria, two American companies, are two NGOs that come here and put their money to help us know what energy resources we have in our subsoils? No, no, And so are the conventions! There are percentage distributions of, when the exploitation takes place, how the profits of that exploitation will be distributed, because it is logical, that is why they have signed these contracts. Therefore, when we talk about fracking we are talking about this, that there are research permits agreed with American companies, which are asked to subsequently exploit and make these energy resources profitable. That's what they're asking for. And that's what we're talking about, fracking. It's good to say it's not fracking! You have put public money in place to start up all the fracking machinery in the Basque Autonomous Community. But people and this House have told them that no, that that is not the way, that that is a wrong energy strategy, to follow by fossil fuels, and even more by the flight forward that is non-conventional fossil fuels. Therefore, when we talk about fracking, of course you have put public money and machinery to do fracking. And we are talking about a law that has been passed by this House, and you seem to be giving everything to environmental impact assessments, but I read Article 3, which says that the fracking technique is not allowed when it may have negative effects on the geological, environmental, landscape or socio-economic characteristics of the area. And you and I know very well that the hydraulic fracture has negative consequences. An environmental impact assessment does not say whether a project or a specific technique has or does not... No, no, no! That's not what an environmental impact assessment says. It says if they are manageable – that's what an environmental impact assessment does – if those environmentally harmful effects are manageable, if they are manageable. We know perfectly well that fracking and hydraulic fractures have negative environmental effects; to what extent they are consumable an environmental impact statement, or a whole environmental impact assessment, can tell us. Therefore, do not want to hide behind words again and do not want to trust everything to statements of environmental impact made ad hoc. No, no, Article 3 clearly states what is prohibited in the Basque Autonomous Community. But it is also most logical, from reading this law, to stop all permits, to stop processing those permits that you seem to continue to process, to stop those planning of the tasks that are mandatory in those research permits, to stop them, and to make a strategic assessment of all energy planning, including the possible exploitation of non-conventional resources. And that's what they didn't do. The previous government did not do so when it approved the energy strategy without a strategic assessment, and you are not doing so right now. The most logical thing and what we recommend to you, and especially to you from Euskal Herria Bildu, is that you paralyze all the permits and make a strategic environmental assessment, with the social participation that is necessary, and the policy also of course, to really know if it is necessary to take the road of exploitation of the non-conventional resources in the Basque Autonomous Community.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u34	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u35	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Maeztu, I do not play with words; what I try to do is not mix the terms. And you've been up here ever since what you're doing is mixing. We don't frack. Fracking, as you well know, is a very determined technique, by which one does a probe, introduces certain fluids, introduces certain chemical elements, or not, or does it through another technique, and analyzes what is happening. That's fracking. Fracking is not an environmental analysis of whether or not it is possible in a given place. You're confusing the terms; not me. The environmental impact study we are doing to know, to know, as you well say, what environmental consequences it has, which it serves. Because every activity that we humans do, everything, has an environmental impact. Everything! Some more consumable with corrective measures, and others inconsumable, as you well know, but all activity has it. So don't confuse me in those ways either. And a priori it's hard to know. You must have studied a lot more than I do, I don't doubt it, and you know a priori that that has negative consequences. As I am a little less studied and a little less versed in these issues, I have only read a little, and of course I am not expert in fracking technique, what we are going to do is to analyze it and really know what effects it has, if they are assumed not only environmental, but economically and socially, the three legs of assumption at this time of sustainability. But that a priori not, and pulling the finger like this either: analyzing and doing a serious study, which is what we intend to do. It's just that a priori it's often quite complicated to know the impacts. You say that knowing how to analyze gives us the right after... Indeed, the law, not the obligation. Two different things, two different words too. Right: once the environmental impact study is done, sustainability is analyzed, if that is possible and the decision is made (if it is made, it is another step much later), then we would have the right. That doesn't mean we're going to exercise it, or we're going to exercise it in the hypothetical event that we get there, that we're so far away that I certainly don't dare say it. U.S. companies don't have an agreement. A sale was made (by the way, not by this Government), a sale was made of that participation, not an agreement, and they are there and have the same right as we have. Of course I do. In any case, let us do the serious analysis, and discuss what we analyze. Let us do the analysis, strictly complying with the law that you have passed (and I say you because I have no vote in this House) on 30 June this year. We're going to analyze it, and we're going to see it, but let's not make a fuss. And don't tell me about the strategic environmental assessment of the previous law. By the way, there was no law that forced him to have it. It has its environmental impact assessment, not the strategy you request. And I have told you that we are currently reviewing that energy strategy, and that strategy has once again the pillars of the previous one: renewable energy and energy efficiency. And as a third leg (because from the situation that we now have to that of 100 percent renewable energy is impossible to pass) we have to make a transit using gas. And we are talking about nothing but using gas as a transit element of the fossil element of oil, through gas, to renewable energies. You know it perfectly well. And he'll take the analysis that says the law he has to take. We're not going to escape, don't worry. We're going to strictly comply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Eight, nine, ten, and eleven subjects will be discussed on the subject. Eighth Point: "Interpelation by Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPyD members to the president, to maintain the system of the Ecomnomical Concert Concert, and the calculation of the Cupid." Point nine: "Interpologies made by the Congress of the Uai Ui Uruzuno Golds Collectors to the President, the measures to take before the systematic attacks of the Economic Concera." Point 10: "Interpodate, written by Joseph Antonio Pruntor Garrido Esquilist, to the president, about his proposals to agree with the Cupid Act." Point 11: "Internation, the members of the staff of the Joseba Egibar Artola Elberte team assembled to the president, about the campaign against the Economic Concera, and about the plans of my having to face it." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u37	Thank you, President. Good morning again. The truth is that in the last few days, in the last few weeks, we are listening to different political and institutional leaders and representatives of different political parties criticizing the system of the economic concert and the calculation of the quota. This is not new, this has been happening for a few years now, and from time to time new statements arise, as I say, from different political leaders, who come to say that the Basque quota is poorly calculated and that the system of economic concertation, on which the quota is based, constitutes an over-financing for the Basque citizens, and is therefore a source of criticism for all these political leaders of different political parties. We have heard this recently in the mouth of Mr Pedro Sánchez, who is the most responsible of the Socialist Party. We've heard it from Ximo Puig. We have listened to the President of Andalusia, Susana Díaz. We have heard this to the greatest responsibility of the Catalan Socialists, Mr Iceta. We have also heard it, and we have heard it at the time from the previous President of the Community of Madrid, Ignacio González. We also heard it at the time from the Finance Adviser of the Community of Madrid. Different autonomous communities have also been raising this issue in recent days, casting harsh criticism on the system of economic concert (different leaders). In recent years, even representatives of the People's Party and the Socialist Party have voted in favour of various parliamentary motions and initiatives put forward by UPyD in different institutions, in different Spanish municipalities, in different autonomous communities. And what this shows is that this system of economic concertation, and the calculation of the quota, obviously provokes confrontations between citizens, causes conflicts, causes grievances, causes mistrust, and ultimately causes inequality between citizens belonging to the same country. Technicians in this field have also spoken about this issue in recent weeks, but also in recent months and years. Intellectuals like Ruiz Soroa, like Joseba Arregi... Mr López Basaguren himself, who advises the Socialist Party on constitutional reform, has also come to say, even in the parliamentary seat, in the relevant committee, and through the writings he has published in the press over the past few years, that it cannot be denied that the system of economic concertation and the calculation of the quota represent an over-financing for the Basque citizens. First of all, the incoherence and political hypocrisy of the People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party attracts attention. It's certainly embarrassing. The People's Party and the Socialist Party outside of Euskadi criticize the system of economic concert and the calculation of the quota (at least militants and prominent leaders of these political parties), while in Euskadi they defend it. And this seems to us incoherence and political hypocrisy. Because, finally, all democratic ideas can be defended, they can be argued, but what we must at least ask the political parties, all the political parties, to be coherent, to defend the same things in Euskadi as outside Euskadi. By simple political coherence, by intellectual honesty. And the truth is that today, as you all know, there is only one political party, called UPyD, that defends the same things everywhere. I have been criticizing this system of economic concert and the calculation of the quota since 2009. I did it in parliamentary office. I have been strongly criticized for doing so, but I have a maximum, which is to say what I think, and to denounce everything that seems unfair to me, even though in some matters I may be left alone. But, in fact, we at least defend the same thing in Euskadi as outside of Euskadi. Not like that, other political parties. Some say, some have said these last few days that "they are our rights." However, within a state, those rights that can only be enjoyed by some citizens, and not others, obviously cannot be considered rights, but privileges. On the other hand, there are those who insist permanently, and in recent days it has also been said, even by leaders of the People's Party and the Socialist Party of the Basque Country, and also by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, that the system is constitutional, the system is equal, it is positive, it is good for citizens. If it is so positive, if it is so good, if it is so egalitarian, if it does not effectively break the internal solidarity within the country of which we are citizens, if they are all positive, why is Catalonia being denied an economic concert similar to ours? Very simple: because the state would be inviable. Because it's not possible, because it's not consumable. And there is also a flagrant inconsistency of the Spanish People's Party and Socialist Workers' Party: they say and say that the system is equal, that the system is good, etc.; however, they deny it to Catalonia. And they rightly deny it, because I say that in that case the system would be unsustainable. There are technical arguments that perfectly explain the basis of this inequality that we have been denouncing. Of course, it is clear that the system is unclear and sometimes difficult to understand, but if you read and you are informed there are obviously technical arguments that explain it perfectly. Firstly, it must be said that it is a system which applies only to a part of Spanish citizenship, and not to other citizens. This is already an exception in itself, and therefore a break in equality. But the technical arguments I think are sufficiently clear. On the one hand, outside communities are exempted from contributing to the interregional levelling system through which the State provides resources to lower-income communities so that they can provide services similar to those in richer territories. On the other hand, the assessment of the rest of the State powers not transferred to Euskadi is clearly biased downwards. And, third, the technical adjustment that is made to ensure that each administration stays with the part of VAT that its citizens ultimately bear is also biased in favour of the outside communities. And the problem arises because the calculations necessary to make the adjustment are made using values of the coefficients that reflect the weight of these communities in national consumption and on the basis of the tax, which do not coincide with the real ones. These are the technical arguments. But the political arguments are obvious. It is a system that only some citizens enjoy, while other citizens cannot enjoy it. It is also clear that this type of system cannot be transferred to other autonomous communities: it would add more than a hundred, break the state, and disappear solidarity among the citizens of the same country. Whether there are conservative political parties or nationalist political parties that defend certain privileges comes within logic; whether political parties that call themselves progressives actually defend these kinds of systems is what we do not have in mind. We continue to uphold the same principles that we have always defended, here and everywhere: solidarity, equality, etc. This is what we claim. But, in any case, Mr Lehendakari, I ask you, how long will the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government continue to oppose correcting or repealing this anachronistic and obscurantist system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u38	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u39	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Mr. President. For the last few weeks we've known direct attacks from the Spanish faction against the concert's Economic and the Republic of Navarre. The jurisdictions we have of our rights, which are important for us; but, as we shall hereafter explain, the tools that are not, in our humble, partial, and incomplete opinion. And behind this attack there is no ignorance, as has been said, that there is some ignorance in the nature of those who have done these criticisms. Behind this attack there has been only a desire to limit and to exterminate the rights belonging to this people. This instrument, in our opinion, though not highly developed, has a deeper problem than that, and, above all, a physical weakness for us, especially that it rests principally on the difference and relation between the Spanish State and the Spanish Government, in relation to both. And when this affair is played or treated, we believe that the concept of relations is very important, or somehow explains the essence of the problem. The relation is a direct relation; Take it and give it to me. And if we were to consider what each one has been and what he has taken during the 35 years, we would find ourselves in a sort of negative balance. Here are the discords about the Cupid, the unaccompanied jurisdictions, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. We think, therefore, that if we did not place this attack in the context of what is going on with us for years, we should be mistaken in the communication between Spain and the Basque People. Beyond confession or agreement, there is no occasion, unless one of them wills it. And that's the faithful photograph of what's happening to us. We believe that the principle of relations with the state has struck the ceiling, or rather the earth. And it is not a question of the will of the current Government; it is not that the party in the Government is worse or better. The problem is that Spain is exhausted as a political and economic project. They don't have a chance to offer foreign countries, nations, and attractive offers. So it's over! The Spanish state is in the regression phase. Now they're in the middle of taking what they've given us. So, as we have said, this principle of relations has struck the ceiling, and it does not give more. So there are no more symmetry, compact, transfers, and whatever it is. So this is our question to-day, Mr. President, what is it, in your opinion, to do as a country at the moment? What are we supposed to do? And we are often in the same place, that the Government which you represent is sometimes averse to this people, and that even the parties of the same party, exceed the attacks and limits which come to us from Spain, and that even your parties and governments sometimes impose their boundaries upon this people. That is to say, if a whole political strategy is placed in the non-profit transfers, the other side is comfortable, and knows that, if what is not given, the Jelt Party of the Euscus will have no other way than to start. And for us, this is the mistake; this is the mistake for us. We must defend what we have, no doubt; but, on the way to independence. And to make the way to independence, we have to decide here. Do we have to strive to improve conditions in dependence, or do we have to strive to achieve full sovereignty, that is, independence? We recognize the economic concert as a useful tool towards another new political legal framework, because if self-government is good, according to the speech of the Basque Nationalist Party, even recognizing, as acknowledged by Mr Erkoreka, who leaves us without half the resources (which leaves us without half the resources), how would we be able to count on all our resources under our own decisions? That is the debate, according to Euskal Herria Bildu, that we must transfer to Basque citizenship. In the full attack on the concert, you yourself stated that in a situation which could be decided freely, you would choose to remain in the state. Not us, we would choose independence. But now, as a democrat, we are on another stage, and we are able to make up our minds to decide citizens like Democrats. We're saying it's an important thing to do with the concert, even though it's short. It is limited, both in the hand and also in the sense of efficiency; for instance, we cannot decide about the VAT, it is outside our jurisdiction of 50% of tax taxes, and we must have a basic compatibility with the state, which is very limited to us, or it leaves the choice of deciding the law of stability or the law of deficit. Yet, as has been said before, its principal limit, the most decisive, is the ambiguity itself. So let's go our way, and that's why we need all the tools with all our powers. In order to place the whole of the work on a series of ways, he lays himself upon the social reality of this people, and the paradigm of what is going on has been clearly reflected here in the first question made by Poptular Party. In the first question, that's the context and that's what we need to appreciate. A President, a member of the fourth part of the township, a member of the fourth part of the Renaissance, is pleased to grant us the rights to be admitted into the field of work. That's paradigm, it's sad, but that's it. And what we are here today is, above all, what we want to publish: Let us make our own way, with our own decisions. With more examples, the salary of a minority profession, the opportunity of forming a private pension system: all these are examples of a non-complete or not-favoured concert. The wages formed by passive policy are, we believe, too important matters to leave to Spain, which will never admit of them. It's time to go one-sided. At least the time for a few decisions on our own. And we believe, in this sense, that time would be lost to wait for a government which may be after the next election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u40	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u41	Thank you, President. Two months after the end of the Spanish legislature, and less than a year before it ends in Euskadi, the interest in the quota and the concert has been revived, and it has re-emerged to claim our unique system of financial relations with the whole of Spain. But, surprisingly, when the Socialists wanted to bring this matter to the House, so that there would be an immediate pronouncement in its place, the majority of the Bureau felt that it was not urgent. Something tremendously surprising. The same parties that have shown themselves to be more offended by a polemic without basis on the concert and the cup, who have proclaimed with more alarmism and apparatus that we are at a very serious time of attack on our self-government, are the ones who have proposed and approved to postpone any unequivocal declaration by this Basque Parliament. Something that you don't understand very well, except that what interests you is to take out a political cut and become the victim. Go ahead with the firm defense of the Basque socialists of the concert and its meaning of bilateral agreement, which makes the singularity compatible with solidarity. And I would like to underline the explicit commitment of the PSOE to the concert system. That is how it is written in the Granada Declaration, that is how it was communicated to you, Lehendakari, personally by the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party at its July meeting, that is how it is made explicit publicly, and that is how it has been ratified these days. It is true that there have been socialist voices who defending this unique system have been radically wrong to speak of the quota, but once the unequivocal response of the highest leaders of the party in Spain and in Euskadi has been to clear and reject any question, there were forced tores of clothes and grievances such as those that have abounded here. Faced with ghost threats, what should really worry us are the real problems; for example, how we fix the differences about the quota with the Central Administration. The Socialists have asked the Finance Minister about a dozen times in this legislature on this issue, and we have obtained nothing but vagueness. There are two concretions: in a first response he quantified the differences, at the end of 2012, in 808 million euros, and in his last response he quantified them in 1,184 million euros. And nothing else. Under the mantra of technical complexity, it does not provide information on what it proposes to solve this problem, or the steps that will be taken to seek an agreement with the central government. And we could share the position of the Basque Government. In fact, Patxi López's previous executive also maintained differences over the liquidation of some of the outstanding quotas. But we have to stay in the way we could, because this government has not made the slightest effort to explain it. It has not justified why the number of disagreements has grown to more than 10% of the budget of the Basque Autonomous Community, nor has it sought the other groups to lead a joint position. However, when the same technical complexities in which the councillor takes refuge lead politicians outside of Euskadi to misinterpret our system, then yes, then this government, so silent in the other, appears to raise the voice excessively and prepare for the party that supports it to present itself to the Basques as the only defender of our self-government. And we have had some misguided comments that we understand wrong. That is why we have forwarded the relevant clarifications to those who have made them, and to any forum in which we have been asked to do so. But we have missed, lehendakari, the Basque Government. We have missed pedagogical will and institutional height. It is very good to proclaim that the concert and its derivation, the cupo, are not a privilege (we share that idea), but we must explain it to those who see it this way and argue it, not simply turn it into an archane. And we've also been missing information here. The quota law has been agreed since 1981 on a five-yearly basis. There have always been difficulties, there have always been technical complexities, and, in fact, the law has sometimes been updated even when it had already expired and with retroactive effects. And in 2007 the last agreement was reached, between a socialist government in Spain and a nationalist tripartite in Euskadi that was challenging legality with a project of rupture. In spite of everything, even there was a necessary agreement. The novelty in that last law was to introduce the automatic extension clause, and we have much to say that this provision is intended by some to become an excuse not to renew and renegotiate the five-year law. And we believe that this situation is most damaging to us, to the Basques. Not because of a question of magnitude, because that is the clarification that we do not get. We do not want the debate to be about whether we should pay anything more or we should have paid something less, because what we have said to the socialist colleagues who have wronged in their comments is also valid for Basque citizens: we must contribute the quota that corresponds, but neither should we pay any more solve the financing problems of other communities, nor can we pay less than it can exempt us from exercising our fiscal responsibility and from fighting fraud thoroughly. Because we started from the principle that even though the Basques paid twice what we now pay in the quota, that was not going to solve the financing problems that other autonomous communities have and that provoke those declarations. Spain's serious problem is the difference in fiscal pressure that we continue to maintain with Europe, more than five points. That would address a government income deficit that could correct differences and funding problems in other communities. It is not Euskadi who can solve, with more or less, the financing problems of other territories, but the disagreement that drags us down on an accounting issue, because the budgets end up fixing amounts that then do not really exist to spend on public services. And it harms us because it does not clarify the differences, does not sit at a table, encourages the suspicions of those who do not understand our funding system, or those who directly want it to disappear, as we have heard in this House, by the way. And here I think we all have excuses left. To the socialists for sure, but to you too. Because it is true that this Government of Spain about to pack has been deaf and does not know what a true negotiating table is for dialogue with anyone, but it is equally true that the Basque Government also has its own responsibility. Because, if the lamentations of these dates are true, everyone should already know what their proposal is to liquidate the outstanding quotas since 2007 and what is the new methodology that will be proposed to update it in the five-year period 2011-2016, when there is already a year of life. And if it were true that we are facing orchestrated campaigns against self-government, as some politicians say, it would be appropriate to share that position with the rest of the groups in this Parliament, and to work to ensure that the interests of the Autonomous Community are jointly defended. And I would like to solemnly point out here that we are capable in this Parliament, all the parties (that we are all but one Mr Maneiro), that we are putting forward a joint position in defence of the concert. That is what we wanted to put in urgent GNP that the majority of the Bureau felt that it was not urgent, and therefore that there should be no discussion in this Parliament. I recall again that the Socialists have always been in a collaborative attitude in defence of the interests of Euskadi. Six years ago, we went to the Courts to give greater legal certainty to the normative capacity recognized by the concert. It was not necessary, it was something that could have been done here: the tax agreements of the boards could have been brought to ratification by the Basque Parliament, and they had had the status of law. But we gave the approval to an initiative of the General Councils of Bizkaia that we made our own, with the rest of the House, and it was modified nothing less than the Organic Law of the Judiciary and that of the Constitutional Court, to shield the fiscal rules of the historical territories. And the Congress of Deputies, with our support (not, by the way, with that of the PP, which voted against), managed to provide legal guarantees to these tax rules. It wasn't done here. It could have been done. The PNV wouldn't do it. It was much easier to ratify in Parliament the tax treaties of the parliaments, and to have given them the status of law as they do in Navarre. He didn't want to do it, because that keeps causing rash to the PNV. But in any case it was taken to Congress, approved and ratified by the majority of the House's political groups: the PNV, the Socialist Party and other groups, except the People's Party. That is the recent story of our concert, that of the great agreements. And the reality of the recent story about the quota is the opposite, that of the repeated discrepancies. So, if we do not want those who are interested in constantly questioning our system to be charged with arguments, it would be good for the Basque Government to give the greatest possible explanations and to make a campaign of pedagogy, which I think is very necessary, so that the whole state understands that this is not a privilege, but a political pact that derives from the elaboration of the Spanish Constitution itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u42	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u43	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, president and chief departments. All the members of the legislature too. I'm working on an appeal to the president, but what's clear is that this isn't either the President or the President, or our team, or a debatted debate. Now, as my predecessor has said, I can't argue with you, it's clear that other spokesmen have put on the table the word of the Economic Concert, and also the nature of the Word of Navarre, not of the Right. Well, that's the way it's got to be. It's not even new, but this world seems to have turned out completely. We do not encourage this debate, but others have kindled a fire, and it is evident that in those places where fire is kindled we must make a great pedagogia. And how much better to do this pedagogia than the members of the same party, I think you will try it. In his time, too, two years ago, a kind of fire arose from Catalonia, the same Pere Navarro, the principal secretary of Socialists, caused the discussion again, the Concert, the privilege, not the right, and also the subject of insolidity. And I think it's obvious that the financial problem of autonomous communities is there. It's clear. They're all showing their impotence. And we find what is said of such a chivo expyatory: Well, let's play with the concert and the Word. That's the easiest thing to do. But I think that both the political parties in Spain at this moment, and the Socialist Party, who has been in command for many years, must make another examination: Why has the community finances failed? Because the state model finally failed. That model failed. Land model failed. And one of the conclusions that are exposed is financial. Hence, what is characteristic of the Economic Concertation, solidness, on the one hand, and then the one-sided danger: You control the revenues, but if they don't fit in the size, you'll have to examine them and make the decisions, the cost and how to do them. But for me, there is a great difference, because we see it as a party, but history knows it and demonstrates that the Economic Concera had been the result of a disappearance of the forum in its origin: We won't mention here what Cánovas del Castelli said and the rest, but it's obvious that the instrument with a sort of economic column has had a self-organized connection and self-organization and that the concert play really gives power to the Ecomnomonic concert. Therefore, when the attacks begin, it is proper to defend oneself in a proper manner, of course, with respect. And this Chamber will have a meaning, and here a proposition has been extended, and whether it is possible to make that defence between all political parties. The President, I repeat, has made it in common by three pensions and eulogies, representing the municipal councils, and has given it to the people, and to all political and active parties what they think about the Economic concert. I think that's where it is to defend itself from one: we need not conceal anything in respect of solidity, nor in the field of self-control or matter. But, yes, there is, as I say in the interpelation, the best defense we have to do, and the campaign is one thing, we have to face the campaign. Baina, Gobernuak berak igorri two txosten batan... In the document that has been referred to the self-government presentation, in which the assessment of self-government is made, and specifically also the economic concert, it was also mentioned here that the base year, the last one we have agreed on, is 2007, the need to re-adopt a five-year law, bearing in mind that concert and quota are inseparable for the purposes, and in that report it does underline the need to introduce that evolutionary character, to respect that evolutionary character that has the economic concert. And it is mentioned in that report that, as in 2014, the 2012 law is amended, when we begin to contemplate new tax figures and it is incorporated already in what is the interference of the economic concert, we talk about the normative progress, but it is warned, it is expressly said: "It leaves visible some signs of fragility", the economic concert. As far as what's concerned? That it lacks the mechanism to ensure that the State will negotiate this evolutionary nature of the economic concert, that mechanism that also binds the State to have to sit down. Of course, bilaterality has its political advantages, but it also has its rigidities, and, ultimately, if one of the two parties does not want to sit down, then it can project you in time in disagreement. Well, I believe that this circumstance that is noted in that report, as well as other circumstances that affect this attempt at progressive devaluation of the potential scope of the additional provision, according to two judgments that have come out with respect to the Navarra convention, all this also has to be contemplated in the defense of the concert that we are going to do. Therefore, when it is said that difference has its advantages, and that its defects or imperfections, or impotence, because here we are exposed to one-sided funds, but in contact, both tributary and financial relations, we have a relation of difference. Of course, that has to be maintained, that has to be fed, that's for today. And in this process of today, I think we should unite for the defense of the concert: He who has to pedagogue in Spain, let him do it; we will not go to Andalucia to convince the socialists. You must go over there. We will defend you here. And if we can make a proposition here unanimously for the concert and for the defense, it is clear that the process of the concert, the Kupo's negotiation, and, if possible, that this autonomous community needs an agreement as quickly as possible, and that we must provide the greatest assurance to the Economic Concerto. Hence the steps the President has taken, I have mentioned that the declaration made by the medium of his statements to the representatives of the forum and municipal councils, which I think to be essential: I don't know whether we all like to see ourselves in that statement, but it would be a good beginning. And this is the occasion of the Conclusion: In the end, in defense of the concert, it's all over again, but with the depth and firmness it's going to take a step, you're doing it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u44	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. All of them, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u45	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature. I wish to quit what I shall propose for the second round; there is no doubt what I have proposed, and there is no doubt about some things I have heard here. And I would rather, at this first intervention, explain the situation as well as possible. After listening to the last few weeks' remarks I'd have to make out the need for a pedagogia campaign for the Economics concert, yes, and I agree. And that's what the proposal's bound to do. I'll start with positive perspective, though. As has been shown today, the Economic Concert is the axis of our self-generon, and the consequence of the treaty between the two sides. In the last three and a half decades, the well-being we've won in Eukadin owes a great debt to the Economic Concert, and, no doubt, he's put in practice from Euskka to his solidarity for all those years, by the score of Kupo. It is for the leaders of organization and politics to reveal the real reality of the Economic Concertation, and thereby to act in his own defense. My aim today is precisely to put this first intervention at the service of defending the economic concert and the quota; an objective which, with the exception of UPyD, we share all the political parties, all the parliamentary groups present here, represented in this House or representing the Basque political parties in this House. You, Mr Maneiro, speak of political hypocrisy, opportunism, lack of principles or awe-inspiring inconsistency in relation to other political formations. He never has limits on criticism of others. You and your party, in any case, what they pose is smooth and plainly the disappearance of the Basque economic concert, and this is your proposal for Euskadi. You have denoted the economic concert without indecentness. They have called it a right of leg, an improper privilege of the twenty-first century... Now, what you never say clearly is what will be the effect of what you pose. Basque citizenship needs to know that UPyD's proposal goes against its own well-being and quality of life. You have to know. I do not know if your proposal will be better for Spain and the rest of the autonomous communities, I have my doubts; the only thing I am sure is that it will be worse for Basque citizens and Basques. And you know that, Mr. Maneiro, and clearly acknowledge it. Mr Pastor, you say that the disagreement regarding the quota harms the Basques, in addition to having said also in other interventions, or in the justification, which feeds the conflict, which encourages those who do not understand their own funding system, or those who want this singularity to disappear, because they misunderstand that this is a privilege. Okay. All right, Mr. Pastor. But I will have to admit that in the course of the Socialist Party of Euskadi and the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, despite the words of their current secretary general, they do not help statements such as, for example, the following: "The economic concert is unfair, insolidary and right-wing". End of date. And when one listens to this from the mouth of the president of the Socialist Party of Euskadi, Mr Eguiguren, in an interview published on October 10, 2005, ten years ago, and the vavenes that have been given since then also in what has been the participation of representatives of the Socialist Party of Euskadi Spanish Worker in the Congress of Deputies, in votes in which they have been absent, etc., or in statements that have been manifested or raised in these ten years, one understands the statements of the leaders of the Socialist Party in Valencia, Andalusia, Catalonia or Asturias this same Wednesday, this same Wednesday, days after the statement of their secretary general of the Spanish Socialist Party Spanish Worker. I therefore ask you to try to influence your party colleagues and institutional representatives on behalf of the Socialist Party, and I sincerely believe that you want to avoid the conflict, and I encourage you to do so. Senor Uruzuno... Well, you said that the economic pact is an important tool, though it's limited. Even though it's limited and you've put a limit on the bias. Look, I'll tell you, I don't believe politics in this general context we live in, and the context is not only of the Spanish State, or of the German Autonomy, I don't believe in abrupt differences. I don't believe it's possible. In any case, I welcome you in relation to what is the spirit of defense of the concert by which you have raised your intervention in this rostrum. We have previously welcomed them also to other approaches that they have made in relation to what others have been advocating for for many years in a process of institutionalization and reconstruction of our country. Mr. Egibar, you wanted to bring the importance of the Economic Concera concert with your involvement. It's essential from a political point of view, I agree. And even in the institution it is also indispensable that we should be able to get this subject to the first level of this people. I appreciate the opportunity you give me, and I'll make a suggestion later. It is true that attack is constant, and that it answers a certain strategy. And it is true, too, that we must make a special effort on our part to exhibit and develop this end as a nation's goal. We've got a lot to play. And we must unite all our forces to defend our rights. Even from the starting-point of this solid foundation, so that we can continue to move on. Well, I believe that the report sent between the set of reports sent by the Basque Government to the self-government presentation is sufficiently clarifying in the explanation of the economic concert model and the quota calculation system, which is the economic concert, the principles of the economic concert, the solidarity of the concert system, and the concept and methodology of the quota, the unabsorbed burdens and imputation index, the adjustments and compensations, the liquid quota and adjustments in indirect taxation, as well as the financial aspects of the system. And I also say this in explanation to Mr Pastor of his first intervention, even though he is not listening to me. In any case, the system of economic concertation has been and is above all an exercise of responsibility. An exercise of shared responsibility by all the public institutions and all the parties that we have been part of, here present, both in times of good times and economic crisis. In the exercise of the concert system, what we have always done has been spending according to what we could afford, nothing more or less. We have always been aware that we could not ask the State for money, and that we were responsible for all our spending decisions. And this is the model of self-responsibility that we have given ourselves and that we have assumed, our usual model. I think we will all share the feeling that during the so-called years of fat cows elsewhere they made spending decisions far above actual availability, and even of dubious economic and social effectiveness. In any case, in Basque, thanks to shared responsibility, we have not known this culture of spending, these investments above our financial capacity. Here all the institutions have paid religiously what we spent, and we have also contributed on time to the general expenses of the State through the quota. Of the quota and of what is the negotiation with the Spanish Government, in relation to the inquiry of Mr Pastor, I would also tell you that, in relation to the discrepancies in the settlement of the annual quotas, you know for the explanations that we have been giving that the methodology for determining the quota for the five-year period 2007-2011 was agreed in the Joint Economic Concert Commission on 30 July 2007 (governing the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in the Spanish State), and approved by Law 29/2007 of 25 October. That the mechanics of the calculation of the quota was a continuation of the application of previous quinquennials, but for this new five-year period some modifications were made to the content of the law, in order to adapt the methodology of the calculation of the quota to the evolution of the general budgets of the State during the new five-year period in those aspects which posed difficulties of implementation or had been the source of disagreements between the State Administration and the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. It should also be noted, Mr Pastor, that the General Budgets of the State of that year 2007, the year on which the quota for the year for the five-year period is determined, included in the expenditure the extraordinary budgetary allocations to finance competences, the so-called burdens assumed by the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. On the other hand, that in the tax revenues agreed that year in the state budgets only the percentages of tax assignment to the common system communities in force that year were relegated. That year 2007 was the first time that the quota methodology and the common funding regime of the rest of the autonomous communities had not coincided over time. However, it was known that the common financing system was to be reformed, and that this would lead to a significant change in the structure of the State General Budgets, which was a basic element in the calculation of the annual liquidations of the quota, and therefore a pattern of action was set for when this occurred. This change, Mr Pastor, in the structure of the State's budgets was known to take place: on the expenditure side, when the above-mentioned economic allocations disappeared and they were integrated into the financing system, and, on the other hand, in income, reflecting the new and higher rates of tax assignment in favour of the autonomous communities. It should also be noted that, following the reform of the common financing system indicated, the State Administration has not complied with the forecasts and guidelines of action agreed in the Cup Act, which means that both administrations maintain significant discrepancies dating from previous legislatures, from 2009 onwards, from the year in which both the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the Basque Socialist Party ruled here in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Well, I don't want to expand on what is the quota methodology and the existing discrepancies in that regard. We are also working with the Spanish Government in force during this legislature. In any case, what we advocate, therefore, is the economic concert as a bilateral pact and an essential component of Basque self-government, and we also advocate the concert as an effective and supportive system. This is precisely the philosophy of the economic concert, and this is our shared responsibility. This is the culture of responsible management of public resources that should be promoted, and for this it is not necessary to attack the economic concert. I think it's about opening up six important ideas to the village. One is that the Economic Concert is rooted in history, founded on a historical reality, and has its source in the historical rights of the Basque Country. About a century and a half ago, 1878. In the year, as has been said, when the Foraks were refuted, the system of the Economic Concertation. This political agreement updates our historic forum rule. First idea. Second idea. The Economic concert is a two-way political agreement, a two-way political agreement. The Concertical Concertical and Kupo are the essential elements of the relation and co-operation between Eucade and the Spanish State. Third idea. The Economic concert has the entire protection of legislation, and the Constitution of Spain and the State of Guernica offer a legal protection to the system of the Economic Concera. The laws of the treaty, agreed, are the laws which regulate the concert, and the laws of every five years upon the crown which is paid from Eucaia to the State. The agreement was confirmed in the year 2002. The European Committee also guarantees the justice courts of the Luxembourg he gave the sentence that the tax system of the Economic Concerning Concerning Confederate Confederate Confederations of the Confederate Confederations of the Confederations of Europe, and that they agree with the Treatise of the Union. A fourth idea. The Ekonomical concert is the base axis of the euscal autogonization. On the basis of this system there is a constant auto-organization of Euskal society and its local institutions. It's our economic basis for the welfare system, so the Concert. One fifth idea. It's a effective system of the concert's Economic. The Basque Institutions are capable of regulating and collecting the taxes necessary to finance our rights. It's a one-sided risk system, as Mr. Egibar has mentioned. The institutions of Euscal are adapted to the good or bad management of taxing and budgets, to the benefits or losses given. And the sixth idea: It's a solid Basque with the State, and we're giving the state a contribution to finance unacquired jurisdictions as a Cupid. Through the coupe, we assist in the general expenditures of the state, which we must make plain. Even in the United States of compensation. Euskati has always had to give him the ionola he's agreed to. So we're solias. Euscalal contributions are established at 6.24, Mr. Maniro, as you know. Over the vicissitute ratio, when we're 4%.6%. And above wealth ratio, 6% when we're07. So, Mr. Maniro, I want you to make sure that it's a solid Euskakia, and that it's also worth more than what's good. This, I think, is the true reasons for the Basque Act, and the first part of it which I have attempted to defend, to leave the proposal for the second round, as I have said before, and I believe that not all or most of them, nor any of us, but Mr. Maneiro, we may then make a ENGA ENDENDEN, with the measures which I shall hereafter propose. According to these reasons, I believe we may defend the support of this system, whether we believe in it or not. And I don't think they're moments for tyranny, but the moment when society has been so important to each other that it's time to defend everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. In answer, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u47	Yes, thank you, President. Go ahead, we don't attack anything. We do not attack the economic concert, we do not use such terms. What we do is to make arguments, and, in the face of UPyD's arguments, what the rest of the political parties have to do is to make their arguments, so that they are arguments that can be understood by society as a whole. And certainly the technical and political arguments that I have expressed in my first speech, because, indeed, they have not been contradicted or dismantled by any of the spokespersons (or by the lehendakari) who have defended the economic concert. This is exactly the way it is. They have not been dismantled, but quite the opposite. Let us see, it is true that some of those who have recently criticized the economic concert and the calculation of the quota have shown that they do not know the system technically. Mrs. Susana Díaz is clearly not a person who can be said to know the system technically. But we all know what we're talking about. And, on the other hand, there are technicians in this field who have perfectly well explained that this system is in no way supportive, Mr Lehendakari. He's not in solidarity at all. I can recommend books or articles written by very solvent people. I am not going to give this to you, because I have no other, but here, for example, there are weighty arguments. Mr López Basaguren himself, who is advising those gentlemen on constitutional reform, said that it is a privileged system for obtaining financial resources. López Basaguren, Joseba Arregi, Ruiz Soroa, and so many others, Mr Monastery... people who know what the subject is about. Having said that, said that there are indeed people who criticize the economic concert without knowing it, it is also true that those who defend the economic concert lie as Cossacks. Mr Lehendakari, you say that it is a solidarity system; moreover, you say that as a result of the economic concert and the calculation of the quota the Basques pay more than we should. Therefore, following that argument, UPyD's proposal to suppress the economic concert would be good for the Basques. We'd pay less, wouldn't we? He doesn't marry reality. Therefore, some lie to defend the economic concert, others tell the truth. We have also heard different socialist and popular leaders in recent times say clearly that it is a privileged system. Mr. Maroto, Mr. Eguiguren... Indeed, there are many who do not even hide. In any case, the technical arguments I have put forward before I maintain them, and they have not been rebutted. Those three points that I pointed out in my first speech have not been rebutted, because they are rigorously true, and they are perfectly proven. The situation is therefore unsustainable, and it is going to be even more so, both in the Spanish and European contexts. A system of these characteristics, anachronistic and obscurantist, does not actually have a pass, and will change sooner or later. Solutions. Federalism. Federalism for the whole of Spain, that is the solution to ensure that there is maximum equality of rights. Not uniformity, but equality of rights: symmetric solidarity federalism. Solidarity, justice, clarity, equal funding, end of privileges, overcoming obscurantist and exceptional anachronistic systems, these are the principles on which our proposal is based. I repeat what I said before: those rights that can only be enjoyed by some citizens, while other citizens cannot be enjoyed, are not rights, are privileges. So those are the solutions. And obviously the incorporation of Euskadi and Navarra into the common treasury, through the relevant and necessary constitutional reform. We must therefore defend a symmetrical and solidarity-based federal state, made up of autonomous communities all with the same competences; that there is a common wealth without anachronistic exceptionalities; and that we must defend equality and solidarity. Therefore, our proposal is good. It's good for everyone, for society as a whole. Because equality is always positive and good. Good for Basque citizens, and good for all Spanish citizens. Obviously, we will present the corresponding motion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u48	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u49	Good morning, again. I'm from the Basque Country, Mr. President, from the Basque Country. And there's people in the Basque Country who were active and efficient at the creation of the Economic Concertical Concera. And one of the reasons why we gather up the Basque Country is what I'm saying for the welcome. And one of the reasons why the Basque People were gathered, was a common reading or reflection, and one of them was Vancouver reading about the State. And that's where we agreed that the state is already exhausted, and we agreed that 35 to 40 years ago those who defended certain positions and then defended others because we now make common reflection on it. And if you were to address my party, we should say that we've been thinking about the state 40 years ago and that we're still doing the same thing. Anyway, you mentioned the pedagogy, and you insisted on doing a pedagogy in response to all the attacks we've been in. We think that's a mistake, and even in my first interference I said it's not a question of ignorance. It turns out that some rights which this people has already confessed are entering some sort of regression-that is to say, the rights which this people has already acknowledged to be broken in. And that's what we do for Mr. Egibar. He said the state model is exhausted. It is true that the model of the state of autonomies is exhausted: there's no coffee for all of us; there's never been any coffee. That was a lie, never been. So the question is, how he does it in front of this context of the people or that he lives in, how he breaks it, the agreement you have mentioned for his relationships and fellow-citizens, to break up the scheme that depends on us, and to keep us from doing our own path. I haven't offered the coupa a chance of opening the first few words, and we believe that Kupo himself reflects or represents the picture of dependence I mentioned. 750 euros cost every Basque, which is the price of Spanish life. And it is a trap when we speak of this, that we put the discussion of solidarity or alliance on the table. Here, for instance, when the rent and the support of the apartment supposes to us about 450 million euros, we are conducting a nearly equal amount of difference to the Spanish part, for the service he offers us. Then we believe that the harmony is rather exaggerated in many senses. But there's one more thing about it. This is the interpolated idea of the sterility of this difference, which some days maintain, that is the most practical EDAGIA, which lies in the aim of political and party interests. And in the mean time, as I have said, we continue without a reasonable policy of taxing our finances, and in this respect, as Mr. Erkoreka has shown, we need to implement the restrictions, in his words, those mentioned acomo del gastos, which he mentioned. Therefore, we believe that the time or season has come to pass from words to actions, and in this sense we would like to propose a proposition about the Cupid in this Chamber. They say there's about 1,200 million in doubt. We don't know, but that's pretty significant, too. Let's assume a part for the real economy, to avoid restrictions, to strengthen and initialize basic services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u50	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u51	(Mr Egibar was in a hurry to speak.) Well, the first thing I want to say is that I think you've been a little hasty saying "ongi etorri" to these gentlemen, because after hearing him... They haven't passed the sweatshirt, the one where it says "ongi etorri". They haven't even taken the next step to cross the threshold. They've stayed in the front, in the shell. The rest, you continue with the same old speech as usual. Therefore, I do not appreciate too much evolution, and I have doubts, I have doubts whether it will be possible, with you, to arrive...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u52	Mr. Pastor, it's an internship.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u53	... in some case to that statement, which I believe is important, according to unanimous agreement, or as much majority as possible, in defense of the concert, which I reiterate and reaffirm would be desirable and, of course, I pledge that we will put all efforts, in what is our responsibility to the Basque Socialists, so that this may be so. And I repeat again, although Mr Egibar does not seem to like it, that it is necessary to do pedagogy from the institution in this case, which is the Basque Government. We, as far as we are concerned – I feel it is not – are already doing so in those Socialist Party federations that have made statements that we understand and understand radically wrong. And we also want to reiterate our unanimous defense of the concert, but I will disagree with you in this of the lukewarmness or vavenes or contradictions. Because when you say you're defending something, it's not enough with a grandiose statement, a lot of theater and a lot of scarecrow, as you've done in this case. That is demonstrated by facts. And the two most important moments of defense of the concert have been two. One, when the state's legislation had to be amended to shield the tax laws of outland haciendas, and it was we who took the step forward and put the necessary votes for it to be approved. Not so, unfortunately, the gentlemen of the PP, who have called us all during these days but who did what they did, with you, of course. And, on the other hand, the great moment of danger of the concert was with the possible negative decision of the Court of Luxembourg to recognize the outland haciendas as another hacienda within the Spanish State. And we were the ones who defended, through the lawyer of the State, with Zapatero as president, the right of the Basque haciendas to be recognized as one more hacienda, which was what the Court of Luxembourg finally recognized: five haciendas in Spain (the four haciendas forales and the state hacienda). But that did not happen by chance. It was due to poor management that the PNV made of the issue of tax holidays, in what we collaborate. Because I know that Mr Egibar is going to tell me in the reply, I say this before: we were members of those governing councils, but we were not responsible for the subsequent management of those complaints from the European Union that were made year after year, and answered, hidden, disguised or misrepresentated by the different parliaments. In any case, that had to be saved thanks to the intervention of the State lawyer. So, I don't think we have to get real lessons from anyone. Many things can be said with the big words, but it is with the facts that true support is shown. The movement, as is often said, is shown to be moving, and we have already done so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u54	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u55	I know I can't get into the debate, but Luxembourg, among others, brought us the UGT of La Rioja, and previously many state lawyers resorting to all the incentives, but good. And in the context of a negotiation, as has always been the case, at a time when self-government had to be boosted and there was a picture of the need of the Spanish Government, things were achieved, including commitments like those mentioned. Two things. One, I think there was also an evolution in the Union, why, at the beginning of the campaign, when elections were made and the parliamentor was completed, the spokesman introduced the Ecomomonic Concertical Concertial Concertial Concertial Concertial Concertial Concertal. And there's been a development. He mustn't go far (he smiles) they haven't been so many years. He said it was the Kruertillo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u56	It's an interrogation. Please, to the president.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u57	Well, to the president. Then (he smiles) I would like to explain a concept. And it's, as I said before, an Economic concert is an instrument, but it's extremely political, if the political concert doesn't have a self-portrait behind it, then it can be, like in many places, better or worse living according to management. But if we have to emphasize the value of something at these times, it is self-organism, which we have, though limited, and not everything that the state of Guernica protects, it is harquebus developed, but we have an Economic concert. If these two columns are introduced by the Economics and Auto-Politics, it is evident that a moment will come when I know that, on the east side of the States, it is necessary to look after the vicissitude, at least for a few years. We've shown that we've negotiated, that we know how to advance, and it'll be time, where, if you've got the full auto-gourge, it's all up to you when I'm leaving, if all hands are yours, if you've got the Economic concert, what's the Kupo's number? It's a theory. It's a theory. Zero. So if you follow the highway of the self-engineer, if there are jurisdictions on you, if the management is yours, then the Economics Concertation gives you a chance to fund all that. Eta ez da egia solidaritateran inguruan hemen iruzurra egiten ari garenik, because the Interterritorial Compensation Fund is not the figure of the Basque Parliament! It's the General Budgets of the State. So, it's an unassumed letter. We paid 6.24. The figure is approved by the Congress of Deputies, and we pay 6.24. We can also do other numbers, to see exactly what is the investment of that state, which also rules here, in real figures, and I think the balance is positive for this community. And I think that, the same thing that is said that if we are paying more than what is ours, that must also be adjusted, that must be adjusted. But that requires the Joint Commission to meet, not to expand indefinitely. Because in this bilaterality, if the Spanish Government does not feel concerned and does not feel bound not only to collect, but to respect the evolutionary character of the economic concert, adjusting it and updating it when it comes, then it is clear that it is relegating and is also managing political times. But the reason why the agreement and the economic agreement are being attacked at this time is the crisis of the territorial and political model of the Spanish State, which obviously the autonomous communities do not have guaranteed funding, and then it goes against what? Against the figure of the concert and the convention. Let us put things in place, and let us see, except UPyD, whether we can get a joint, unanimous resolution from this House, from all the parliamentary groups, in defence of the economic concert and the quota.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u58	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, I, while discussing with you may seem to be discussing with a pediment, do not resist continuing to try to explain to you how things are. In any case, I do not care that you disregard any arguments that the rest of Parliamentarians offer you; not just the government or the lehendakari. What powerfully draws my attention is your contumacy in passing through the arch from wherever you want even the Spanish Constitution itself. Mr. Urruzuno, yes, you're from EH, but I thought you were from the EH Collector. And in that sense, neither welcome to EH Bilri, nor welcome to you in the name of the LORD, but I must give you welcome in the name of the creating one. And I agree, pedagogical error, ignorance is not the only one, which I said the first day. It is not only ignorance, but there is an end of centralization following it. And I said long ago that the model of the state is out, but at this moment we have the instrument in our hands that we can improve. Pastor, indeed, let us go to the facts, but to all the facts. And I recognize the effort that the Basque Socialist Party is making at this time, but you will not deny me the facts that I have told you before, nor will you deny them from the year 2005 to the year 2015 in which we are, because facts are also Mr Eguiagaray's statements at the Congress of Deputies in relation to the economic concert itself. I mean, let's take into account all the facts, even admitting the effort you're making. Because during the last few weeks we have seen, yes, an unusual interest in the economic concert and the Basque quota, a system that has been operating continuously, as has been said, since 1978 as such an economic concert, but which, Mr Maneiro, becomes from the historical rights of the Basque people earlier in time. The outlying regime of the Basque territories is a reality even prior to the construction of the Spanish State as we know it today. The updating of this bilateral pact that becomes in the economic concert takes place in the year 1878, and since then, uninterruptedly in the cases of the territories of Araba and Navarra, the concert and the economic agreement have been maintained. By the way, I would like to recall that this system that some now call privilege is actually only what was maintained after the two outlaws of 1839 and 1876. Therefore, when we talk about the historical rights, self-organization and self-government of this people, we are talking about political capabilities far superior to what today represents the economic concert that is intended to be questioned. I have also said that this system is a bilateral political pact and that it has the full support of the law. This is covered by the so-called "block of constitutionality" and has also been endorsed by the European Union, which recognises it as in accordance with European law and the Treaty on Union. We are talking, therefore, about a system rooted in history that is unique, covenanted, and that is legal. The second idea I want to make clear is that the outlaw regime involves, as has been said in the first speeches, a unilateral risk, and it is important to stress that on this basis Basque has always lived from its work. And in 1981 I remember that, in the midst of the economic and industrial crisis, Euskadi accepted a great risk, because at the time the situation was very complicated and the collection very low, and since then the first obligation of Euskadi is the payment of the quota. From there, we manage our resources. Third important idea, Euskadi is solidarity. I have said that the first thing is the payment of the quota to the State administration, and the quota is always 6.24%, regardless of what the relative wealth level of Euskadi is in relation to Spain. Look, today this is the reality of the economic concert and the quota, an uninterrupted reality in history, a reality that is now intended to question with an intention contrary to the interests of Basques, to the interests of the well-being and quality of life of Basque citizens. And today, that we are looking at a new economic, social, institutional and political future, that we are trying to update and improve our self-government, to adapt it to the new realities, also to the new Europe under construction, my desire as lehendakari is that we be able to put this debate at the service of defending the economic concert and the quota, which is much more than an instrument of tax and financial order. In fact, it is a pact of political coexistence that assumes a unilateral risk, guarantees the well-being of Basque society and is supportive. He has asked me what this government is going to do. Well, I propose three initiatives. The first is pedagogical: the defence of the economic concert and its explanation is not something that concerns the Government alone and exclusively; it is a responsibility of all. In this sense, we can continue to make progress in three areas of action: to further disseminate and spread the economic concert in Euskadi (precisely next month a book will be presented with this objective with which the Basque Government has collaborated); to explain more and better the economic concert outside our community (a clear shared responsibility, in which the state-level political parties ruling in Spain and other autonomous communities have a fundamental role); to disseminate the economic concert internationally. And it is an initiative in which this government is working in this legislature; the most recent example is the meeting held by the Councillor of Finance and Finance with representatives of the embassies in Madrid to present the model of the Basque economic concert. And I can assure you, from my own experience, of the relationship with the whole diplomatic corps, that the concert system is not in doubt in Europe; on the contrary, it is analysed as a model of responsibility, effectiveness and solidarity. The second initiative is of a political nature. On 15 September last year, I submitted to the President of the Spanish Government a proposal to resolve the differences in interpretation in the current quota. I didn't get any answers. And this issue, and the proposal for the renewal of a new quota, will be on the agenda of the first meeting to be held with the new Spanish Government. And the third initiative I propose is institutional in nature. As you know, the deputies general, the president of Eudel and myself as lehendakari signed an institutional declaration this Wednesday in defense of the system of economic concert and quota. I make this first agreement available, so that it can serve as the basis for a declaration that is approved on the general boards of the outlying territories (I believe that the general boards of the outlying territories deserve consideration), and also later on in this Basque Parliament. I believe that these three initiatives can help to show that the economic concert unites us not all, but almost all. When we look at auto-generacy and political future, we imagine agreement and alliance. Now we have a chance to defend the Economic concert agreement. The Economic concert is the axis of our self-generacy, and the consequence of the agreement between two sides is, after all, the most important tool for political life and our well-being. At the same time the degree of well-being which we have obtained owes much to the Economic Concertical Concertical, as has been said before. So it is with the officers of organization and politics to reveal the real reality of the Economic Concertation, and thereby to act in his own defence. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. The twelfth theme in the theme list: "To ask the question, made by the members of the board of the "Starter Barbadillo EH" team to the President of the Council, for asking people about the chances of negotiation with the President of a community sitting in the courts of justice." Mr. Ray, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u61	Good afternoon, Mr. President. Yesterday, last night, we saw the President of a group of autonomymen who was transferred to the court, and we might say that it is more than that we saw in the court one of the leading leaders of an independant process. And this is our warmest union with President Mas, and our solidarity with the institutions of Catalonia. We agree with him that when he said he hadn't committed any crimes, we too believe he'd committed no crime. The only crime, if ever, has been the attempt to give to his people, his people, his promises, and their decisions. It is always necessary to remember, always in accordance with the democratic rule of the Parliament of the Colalonia. Eta alde horretik ikusi behar dugu zein izan den spainian statuaren errekzioa. Their reaction has been to bring the legitimate representative, elected by Catalans and Catalans, to the courts for trying to consult their citizens, for trying to know their opinion. Because the Spanish State does not recognize or recognize the national identity of Catalonia, its right to decide, nor will it recognize the right of President Mas to consult his own citizenship, his own society. And, on this view, we are to ask clearly what alliance can be made with such a state, with what difference, with which the political conversation is denied? And it's not the Popular Party for being in the government. PP, PSOE, or Ciudadnos, it is impossible, because they admit no other nation, because they acknowledge no right to decide. And in this respect we must answer such a question, and our answer is clear and clear: We do not want, we do not want to negotiate the conditions of our dependence, because we do not want to remain dependent. We do not want to dignify our conditions of subordination and submission, because we do not want to be subordinate to anyone. We want to decide, as a nation that we are, we want to decide as a free people that we aspire to be, and at this historical moment in which we live, when Catalonia takes its definitive path to freedom, we ask Basque society, the Basque people, we ask its political and social actors, and we also ask – as not – its political and institutional representatives, to be (we are) up to the historical moment that we live in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u62	Thank you, Mr. Ray. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ray, we've explained our position clearly in the face of this matter. Political affairs require political solutions and solutions. Nor is it fair for us to judge of politics. This is not the way to offer a solution to this problem, either in Catalonia or in Euskadin. I repeat, we are opposed to the judicialization of politics, and the accusation of President Mas is able to demonstrate the lack of capacity and political response of the Spanish Government. And again we insist that political solutions will only come from dialogue and negotiation – I insist – not from the closure and imposition of the Spanish Government, but not from assertions as restrictive as those you make in relation to Catalonia. I repeat our proposal: interview, negotiation, agreement and confirmation. Euskadin, and it's all right to get out of this tribe to do this kind of planning, but let's just consider that, if it's just for once, we have a chance of making this method of work and proposing a political solution. In this very part of the legislature we have a crew composed of all groups, and all political parties share in it. So let's not close the door of the conversation, when that crew hasn't yet announced the consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Am I right? Aren't you going to be part of it? More to say? No. The thirteenth theme in the theme list: "The question is, "Maria del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Muninka, a member of the Popilative Groups of Economics and the chief department of competitive Economics, not to pay the company of the Esquillia Autonomia in Escomenia." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Madam Councilwoman, just over a year ago we asked you about the consequences of the critical economic situation of Aldanondo in this Autonomous Community, which mainly resulted in non-payments: non-payments to the Administration in the repayment of loans, and non-payments to farmers (more than EUR 1 million). You, counselor, were telling us about a year ago that you were dealing with different actions to get this company to be rebutted, run and pay what it should. What's the situation right now, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u67	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, as you know, is under the Ididial Company, and, as we said, his economic situation is not at all good, we should just say the opposite. And when we talked at this time of the year ago, the year ago, the year ago, he had an enormous amount of debt, and in this case our cattle were to receive almost 1,20,000 dollars by the shepherd. But at the same time, you've got to say, "You're in a jam and you've got some subsidies to get." We have followed closely the evolution of the company, as it could not be otherwise, and we have tried to look for different solutions, but above all trying to find a solution to those debts that were maintained with the pastors, because we understand that they were the weakest part of the chain. Our basritatras, of course, are an important part of that milk production that was being used, and it is also a way of giving way to something that they cannot use on their own farms. Therefore, in the discussions, of all the actions that have been carried out, this has been the priority. Respecting the confidentiality of the situation in the various negotiations and of how work is being done, we can say that Aldanondo is being restructured. Aldanondo is renegotiating his debt, he's looking for a new partner – there have been a few bribes, some actions that have not borne fruit – but, as far as the debt contracted with the pastors is concerned, I have to tell him that, in the part of 2013, 100 percent of the debt of 2013 has already been paid, and 10 percent of the debt contracted in 2014 has also been paid. Therefore, at 31 August of the same year, of the EUR 1.2 million owed, the debt is at EUR 346,420, which is still important, but it must be considered that it has been reduced. And we have also managed that in the 2015 campaign the collection of milk is being carried out through the Saiona cooperative. Pastors are therefore paying on time for the economic amount corresponding to the delivery of the milk they are making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u69	Indeed, Madam Counsellor, Aldanando was a company promoted by the Basque Government as a tractor company in the primary sector, specifically in the sheep sector, which collected milk from those pastors attached to the designation of origin Idiazabal. In 2007 it decided to build a new, disproportionate volume, impressive investment (around EUR 18 million), for which it received very important aid from the Basque Government, we believe that without a feasibility study, because, if not, the situation had not been given. And if there was a feasibility study, we do not understand the situation: more than EUR 4 million in direct aid, EUR 3 million in repayable loans, which do not return in time, I do not know how the situation of these loans is... That's what we officially know; I'm not going to comment on what's spoken unofficially, am I? For some time now it has been in crisis, its viability is questionable, and today the entire environment of Aldanondo understand that the situation is no longer questionable, it is chaotic. Therefore, I do not know what is that type of restructuring that the Counsellor tells us is taking place. We understand that it is very important to give a solution to the situation that farmers are going through, which has been unpaid for a very long time. Let us hope that this economic part that corresponds to them will be paid as soon as possible. In any case, we will put an amendment in the budgets that collects this amount and is already done. We believe that we cannot rely on the solution of this issue to solve the situation of Aldanondo. We believe that the least guilty are livestock farmers, who also have no tools to resort to. If the Administration does have them in case the credits are not returned, but the farmers have few resources. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, we would like to see this restructuring that you say is being carried out, and to be sure that this has viability, because today, as far as we know, there is no viability of this company. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u70	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u71	Mrs López de Ocariz, I understand that you want to make a political criticism of the company, of how it was constituted... I understand perfectly, you're in your right. But we are talking about the debt of the pastors, the debt we carry. And I told you: of the 1,200,000 euros that existed last year, at 31 August we are at 346,000 euros. The whole part of 2013 has been paid out and 10% of 2014 has been paid out. In 2015 there is no doubt, because we have found another way. It is restructuring, it is refinancing the debt, it is restructuring the company looking for another financial entity. Therefore, Mrs López de Ocariz, we are doing what needs to be done, and the company is doing it. What we are talking about in different places, I don't think it's up to us to talk about it. We need to have a little more rigour in speaking and acting. And when you say you're going to make an amendment to the government to make the government pay the debts... Are you going to do it alone with the farmers, or with all the debts of all the companies in the country? Because, of course, you will tell me, if we have to act with some, why with some yes and with others no. We don't have the budget to pay off all the debts of all the private companies in this country! I am afraid we have to do things a little more seriously and look for long-term solutions, and not patching up and trying to make amendments that really have no common sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Base fourteen theme in the theme list: "I'm asking you about the responsibility of Aternova in the state of Aernnova. " Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u73	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, especially the staff-captain at Aternova, who was here today. Aternnova planned to fire about 150 workers. It is a matter of charge, which has serious personal consequences; but, further, if we consider that Aernova is a business of profit, and has received a great deal of public money. We all know that he's in touch with Aernnov's director, and we want to know if he's in charge of his responsibility as the company demands, and if that's what he's going to suggest or what he's going to suggest or not to the company he's going to do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u75	Mrs. Arroy, as you know, from the beginning of 80 years of age, the Aernanautics, which is now all Aernova, have received different public aids, always through different programmes and politics. I mean, they haven't been direct scholarships, but from so many policies and programs in competitiveity. All these have been clearly given, they have been examined, as always, by fixed ends, and by examining the results of these ends. Up to now the Aternova team has answered all the conditions and duties directly, without any difficulty, and has fulfilled all their duties. So what the Aternova team has to do with the government, and what government could have with the group, ends with these subsidies. If, then, the end is fixed, the scholarships are given, examined, and kept, otherwise, the return of money, as it always does, is demanded. For the past 30 years, thousands of companies have been receiving this kind of support, and some of them are in a better condition, and others in worse condition, but it wasn't the result of the financial situation. It is true that the Aernnova group announced at the end of July that it was going to present an ERE for 130 workers of the company of Aernnova Aerostructures of Álava, located in Berantevilla. It is one of the nine companies in the group – as I was saying – and it is a business decision, that we have had relations with the company and explained it to us, but also with the company committee, and we have listened to both parties and analyzed both sides. We have held multiple meetings, both with the company committee and with its management. We have assessed the situation, and we have asked the company, as always in these cases, to explore any alternative route to the presentation of these EREs, or, where appropriate, in the case of presenting them, to minimize the effects and to use non-traumatic routes, as is always done in any other case. In this case, we are at the disposal of both the company – and we have made this known – and the company committee, to analyse these ways that the company can put, since it is a business group and this is one of the nine companies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Arrondo andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u77	You say the money is connected to the programs and that the company has always done what it needs to do. The company's decision, today's decision, isn't a sudden decision, it's the effect of a long process that I've been protecting from you. In recent years Aernnova has been reducing the number of workers in Araba, and bringing the workload to other places (Sevilla, Mexico, Brazil...), in a perfectly planned operation that has been welcomed and praised by the Basque Government. Moreover, the Lehendakari Urkullu himself applauded this internationalization of the company, despite the fact that this implies the loss of jobs in Araba. And in the end, on the same day that the lehendakari in Mexico unconditionally supported Aernnova, the company presented an ERE in Gasteiz. Aternnov has received public support, a lot of millions, at least 100 million to 2006. In proportion as he has received public money, he has even some engagements with society. No es admisible el esquema de "toma el dinero y corre." A lot of help, a lot of profit, and then, when he has his pocket full, he's going to fire people to make the profits even bigger. While hundreds of workers are trying to get out on the streets, the intention is announced to go out on the market in the first half of 2016, and in the current fiscal year it has had 100 million profits, at least if you have said so. The company has commitment and responsibility, no doubt. But, you know, it's just fun and, in this case, it's clear. It is with him that these public aids are really for the good of the public. And it's clear that 150 workers don't do any good to the company of the Basques. I'm sorry, so it's not a neutral operator. We repeat: it is not a neutral agent in this history, it cannot stand aside, waiting for the matter to be solved between companies and workers. It can't be. To act like that is to defend the company and fight the workers. That's also obvious in the Cegasa after you've received so much public money. We hope this time we don't. That's what you normally do, what you've done, and this time we're asking you to take another position. In this case, in order to defend the future of a Arab's company, especially in favor of the workers who work there. And what we need to demand and demand is to take measures to make it secure somehow.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u79	Mrs. Arrido, you know what you mean, I want to remind you, as I was telling Mrs. It's true. But for innovation and internationalization. And maybe if those scholarships hadn't been put on the table and that company hadn't been used to be more competitive, maybe we wouldn't be here talking about it, because that company wouldn't exist. They are therefore placed for it, and it may be difficult for me to do so, but I shall repeat it over and over again, for some purposes which money has, and they are measured. We don't do it anyway. If they are to become international, they have ends, and they are measured by them, and so for innovation. And even in this case they have been measured. And we don't move side by side, just the opposite. We're just trying to help and promote competitiveness. So don't confuse things. And I said the beginning from the beginning: It's what we've asked the company to do, as always, when they're planning EE, to study the whole company, and there are other measures that can be taken. But when there's a big company like that at stake, we always ask the same question: and first, first, first, first examine other things. And then we'd take the second step. But first, if there's anything else to do...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Next, we make the 18th point, and then in the place of eighteen the fifteenth. The 18th theme in the subject list: "Interrection, Antonio Damborenea Basterrechea Eugula Group Uspularian Acters to Ogas and the Chief of Finnes, about the Confederation Laws of the Confederations." Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u81	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Counsellor, this morning we have heard a lot about the quota, the economic concert, and there is another law, this time internal, which is the Law on Contributions, which is the distribution of the revenues that derive from that economic concert and that are distributed between the Basque Government, the outlaws, and the municipalities. Today, Law 2/2007 on Methodology and Distribution of Resources is in force... , what is called the "Act on Contributions", for the period 2007-2011, although this law, by a final provision that was introduced as a novelty, said that exceptionally, if after the expiration of the term of this law, a new one would not be approved, therefore, this law would remain in force for the 2012 and subsequent years, which is what we are in. Well, it's obvious here that if we don't have a new contribution law today, for this period, we can't blame anyone in Madrid or anywhere else, or any extraterrestrial. This is an internal thing of this Autonomous Community; this is something that, in the end, it is expected that in the Basque Finance Council the Basque institutions will agree and bring to this House a bill, and obviously within the plans of this Government was to put forward and bring this bill to this House. Well, the legislature's almost over, there's a year left at best. In the month of July, some deputy general said that there was no need. Well, the other day you had Basque Finance Council, so, well, the question remains very topical, because some other deputy general has said that it is time to amend this law that harms some Members or others. But, well, it's obvious that apparently, despite being all in this case of the same political party as Mr. Counsellor... One would expect them to agree as soon as possible to bring the law of contributions that corresponds to this period, and that is why we have made this inquiry to him. You know that we didn't like the one that came, and we didn't support it for the same reason, among other things because we have to remember that the discussion was not whether a parliament was harmed or not, that yes, but that they were harmed because technically it was wrong, but that all the technical inefficiencies that existed in the previous laws were maintained. And the territorial problems arose and remained, to the extent that a "fund of solidarity" had to be created, in quotes, so that the decompensations caused by the law's own methodology did not harm any of the territories too much. And it was deceiving that the vertical coefficient (which, let's say, is the one that sets, so that we all understand, what percentage of resources the Basque Government takes away) was lowered, it was ridiculous, to appear that more money was going to be allocated to municipalities and parliaments, when it was actually allocated, because it was the money that was being taken away from the IAE's collections, and it was that simple compensation. Therefore, we in this case do not depend on anyone, we depend on ourselves, on our institutions, all governed by the same political party, and therefore our inquiry is to know whether it is the intention of this Government to bring the law of contributions that corresponds, or we will continue without anything and we will continue in extension, with a law that no one seems to agree with, or even the leaders of their own party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u82	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. To answer, Mr. Gagatebary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u83	Thank you, ma'am, Mr. Damboreea. I remember the dispute you mentioned here about the Book of Contribution; I was in that dispute, and I also remember your opinion. It's been years since the law has been established, 2007 years. We're still doing our jobs together, and in the past years, in the process of the process, we've been working on it in the new season, we're working on it and we're working on it. You say, in fact, there are differences in patterns, from your point of view. But you didn't mention that there are two columns according to the model. On the one hand, do we agree that what we have to do is to make our contribution deep, to support our public policies? That's a strategic decision. And so we have it put on: according to the rent, according to the crude internal exploitation. One. Two: The opposite of the tax effort, shall we consider the time of borrowing? Yes or no? That's the strategic decision. Two. Do we agree or don't we? We have a similar relationship with the state. How do we contribute to the state? We're tied to our rent. How do we make our contribution to maintain our general policies? Depends on the rent. And then, measuring the opposite of the tax effort. How old are they? 70% of the rent and the inverse tax effort 30%, so we have it. But not only in the line of error which you have spoken: it is the standard we have, that we contribute according to the rent; for otherwise we should go to another example, and it is not right. This is not a pattern of the distribution of the revenues, which are made according to the income: so it works with the State, and so it works in us. That's what's important: there is another example, which may be permitted; but what we have in force is not the division of the collection, but the labour of taxes has its important paper. It is not what we have to divide by ourselves, but how we divide it? Depends on the rent. That's the big deal. That's what you're talking about. Then the fund was established for some balances, but the essence is a long time ago. The fund was adjusted in the last change in the law. And besides that, you haven't mentioned another important thing, and it's very important that you're dealing with the collection. all the indirect taxes are divided, from the point of view of the collection, with coefficients. And indirect taxes are 50 percent of the fat or the general. That was a big step ahead. There's an indirect taxation that's very basic and important, taxing our consumption, and it's the tax of the added value. This is in the heart of the law of 2007, which has assumed a step forward. The tax of the value added, Lord Damborene, is still in use since 1986. In 20 years, this indirect separation was unsuited. The 2007 law has made a significant progress. I think it's important to keep that in mind. Third. What you're talking about. the descending of the vertical. If we turn down the vertical, we must all know that we touch the brain of joy and our model, the eucalypine model, the brain: We must be clear about that. You said the adjustment was done, it's true, the disappearance of a tax on economic activity, and a few ten came down. Yes, it was, but there's no other reading. As you know, the tax on economic activity disappeared, and that was done to adapt it. But where are the quintessence? That the indirect tax distribution is made horizontally, very important. Two, do we agree to do the contribution according to the rent? Is there another pattern? It's useful to us because it reflects on the financial situation of each country and the opposite of the tax effort is important. Why? Because you have to keep an effort on your mind. If we didn't encourage that in an advanced economic policy (with the weight of a tax effort and the greatest possible collection of money for popular politics), we'd be involved in a remarkable lack. That's what we're working on. With the old Alduds, too: there was a patriotic party on one side, the Popular Party on the other, and we're still working on it. And the work is done, and we continue to do the work, because it is our institutional model: the institutions are above the command or command of the one. And even among the institutions, we'll continue the same, and I'm telling you the same thing. Then another peculiarity. This law is a very special law, by repeating this second word, that it is not only to unite itself among the four institutions, but that it must afterwards be protected by the Chamber. It may happen at some moments that the majority of the United States have not been reflected in the majority of this Chamber. That must also be in consideration, but that doesn't remove the work we have to do. And another consideration, which is important: what we do by this law, as you have mentioned, is a division of our financial resources, after having fulfilled the duties of the state. And our responsibility in front of the state is to pay for our year's coupe. And to lighten that financial stage is important too. And more proper, because we ought to keep the collection of all resources with the first state, and thus says the Law of the Histric Lands, that it is the duty of the Common-wealth, and then we separate the financial resources here. Then it is better to do so from the financial point of view. It is not a necessary condition, I know. But it's better to have more sense of financial facilities. How we have so many years of the Common-wealth, as yet unpaid, it has an effect, because we have not the ultimate payment of what we are to pay, which, when separated, binds us in what manner we ought to make this division within us; which also affects us. So we have to wait until we get this right with the state? Unhappily? No. What do you mean, consistent? Yes, it's better that this financial stage should be cleared, because it has to make adaptations. It depends on the internal division, whether it be of a certain number of relations with him. Nevertheless, we must continue to work, both in relation to the State and in the interior. But we must consider that this Book of Contributions will be in order to solve the problem, if it fails to solve it sooner. But we're still doing our jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u84	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. I thought I had made a very simple inquiry! It was if the Basque Government would bring in the new law contributions. And I already know it can be more or less complicated. Man, not so long ago, in the four institutions that have to agree, in each one ruled a political party, and one can think "Well, that would be more difficult, and that is why it was not proposed by the government in turn to reach that agreement." Now it turns out that they are all in the hands of the same party, and, as far as I am concerned, it is now more complicated, because, of course, to see if it is not going to be approved here in Parliament! Which I don't get out of my astonishment with. I am not discussing the pillars that must be provided according to an income, nor the tax effort, but what I am saying is that it is a distribution model. It is a model for the distribution of tax revenues after paying the quota. After you pay the coupon. And I already know that indirect taxes are very important, and more and more so, because it is increasingly with those with which it is collected, and it is collected much less with others, for example with the IRPF. But, of course, four years ago we had to have the new contribution law. Four years ago. And he's not here. And we have asked him to see if this government is going to bring, or is doing something, or is trying, or is negotiating, or are doing something to make a new contribution law, because we are not aware of it. We are told statements by deputies-general of the Basque Nationalist Party saying yes and no; some that must be left as it is, and others that the new law must be brought in. But that consists of statements in the press, absolutely nothing else. And, let's see, the law of the quota is very important, but in the end the law of the quota... You said, "Well, as long as there's no quota law, we're not going to have contribution law." Well, you'll forgive me, but it can't be that way either. In other words, what regulates the law of the quota is the quota to be paid, and here we are talking about the distribution of the rest of the resources among the other institutions. That is not just that of the Basque Government, because we are also talking about the resources of the municipalities and the parliaments, which all comes out of the same, the taxes of the citizens we pay. The same goes for the state, the contribution to the Basque Government, and the remaining money, for the parliaments and municipalities. And to us it does seem very important to us the law of the quota, yes. Very important. We would also have liked it if we hadn't raised what was raised in the last one that was approved, and maybe everything would have been simpler and simpler, and we wouldn't have the troubles we have today with those disagreements, which are the product of that last law of the quota that was approved, and you know it and I know it. And that's why I have to reiterate my question. I mean, is this government going to bring in a contribution bill? Not for the past periods, which have passed us; finally, for the following. Or is this Government not prepared to do so because, as it governs the four institutions that have to agree, it is unable to do so?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u86	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. To answer, Mr. Gagatebary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u87	Thank you, Mr. President. Lord Damborena, as I said in my first lecture, we are working to bring the Contribute Law here. We've been working in the old forum and in the law of the present forum, with all sincerity and loyalty, as well as any colour or other; the institutions are superior to the colors. We're working to get a law or a bill. Two, as you know, neither this Chamber nor this Government can bring it here directly: you can't do it through a bill of parliamentary team, and you can't do it with the usual legal proposition of funk, but you have to agree, you have to have a deal between the institutions. Then we have no complete competition: not the House itself, not the parliamentary groups, not the Government itself, but the agreement must be. That's what we're doing, I repeat: this is what we are about to make an agreement to bring the law here. Three, as you said, the Cupid's law is important, very important, and I'll tell you again why. If we haven't closed our financial relations to the state because Kupo's annual bills are not done, does that affect the internal distribution? Yes, of course. Even those who are not shut up must be divided here by coefficients, which influences the four institutions in general. But then, within every historical territory, it may have a small influence even in the townships, which is important. And I repeat: Is it proper to do so? Yes, absolutely necessary and indispensable, no. But it's convenient. If there are no financial resources, how do we make internal arrangements here? Yeah, we'll do it, but it won't be final, it's just temporary. That's why I'm telling you this: We can keep going and we can do it, and it's best that the other one is settled. That's the way it is... And then I want to direct you to one thing, when you say we have a pattern of separation; no, the pattern is not part of the division, it is the standard of contribution, it is not the same. This model we have here agreed on, which we have agreed upon by the three historical regions and by the law of the Histric Lands, is not the division of the collection, it is the model of contributions. And in the heart of the contribution there are two columns: one, the contrary of the power of taxation, and two of borrowing according to the rent. That's very important to be clear. This is not an example which we of the Basques have penetrated upon ourselves: We file a collection of money, and all of us move forward. No, no, every one contributes according to these two columns, and we must make that clear. We can plan another pattern, but we have this pattern in the law which we agreed on for the last 32 years, which is maintained in the laws of contributions. There is another example, which may be made, but at the present time, neither in the law of exchange, nor in the law of exchange, no one has proposed to any other example. And, to finish, there's another thing, there's the networking here, and you have to admit that in the force of law how far the indirect distributions went along with the coefficients. And that's supposed to have been the last step we had in 20 years to solve the tax, the tax, the tax of the added value, the collection of money. And you remember, as I remember, what was there in every country. I mean, it's 50 percent fitted in our internal adaptations according to the coefficients of the territory. So, what is the only thing we have to do, in that model of contributions? As long as we have the regulator of power in our right taxes, we can guarantee it. What's that got to do with it? Well, the tax effort. So we're working on it, but it's not about the funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u88	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. The sixteenth theme in the theme list: "Interregation, Ichaensus González, a member of the Basque Socialists, of the United States, and of the collectors of the Special Commercial Society, concerning the register of special employment centers." My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u89	We said yesterday that the Government was burying active employment policies, which were an unwanted son of the Nationalist Party and the Basque Government, and that if it had not been for our passage through the Government with all certainty today there would be no active policies. And I also reaffirmed that opinion this morning, when Mr Lehendakari was talking about active, passive policies, and that therefore... Perhaps that is the explanation why active policies go as they go. Of course, this may seem propagandistic or electoral, but in view of the background, Mr. Counsellor, I think it is strictly objective. In view of the background and in view of the present moment, because, as you know, I am going to ask you about the registration of special employment centres, an issue that was already raised in 2013, and was dealt with in a 2014 plenary, which required, it urged the Government to create the registration of special employment centres. And, of course, it's been two years now, two years. At this time the Government has told us countless things, which, by the way, contradict each other, as I will try to highlight. First, Royal Decree 1441/2010 on the transfer of functions and services to the Autonomous Community in respect of the implementation of labour legislation. Subparagraph (b.2.c) deals with executive functions for the integration of persons with disabilities, and the qualification and registration of special employment centres. In other words, executive and development functions of labour legislation. So the answers that the Government has been giving us over time are that we had to create a framework of our own, which they were thinking, in the end, in an area of which I do not know, but that this was preventing us from carrying on what has been done in other autonomous communities in athlete time: the corresponding decree to create the register of special employment centres. But not here, here we have been, as I say, two years. But, of course, said Mr Aburto (his predecessor in office, Mr Toña), in June 2014, he said that we had to look for a normative area, etc., etc., but we find that draft that they eventually sent (by the way, draft that has already been drafted for a year, since it was sent to this House in response to questions asked by the parliamentary group Euskal Herria Bildu)... Then, they send a draft decree a year ago, and then they quote the normative framework, of course: the General Law on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, the Royal Legislative Decree 1/2013, then they say that the general framework is supplemented by the Royal Decrees 1368/1985 and 2273/1985, and before this law of 2013 was the Insertion Act of 1982. In other words, there was a normative framework, and what the Basque Government had to do was simply a decree such as that made by other autonomous communities to create such a register. Mr. Aburto also showed his discomfort because at the time we asked him, in June of last year, why this delay was being given, and since we did not have a convincing explanation, we began to attribute it to unconfessable intentions... That seems to have upset you, but I really cannot think, Mr. Counsellor, that the Government has come to such an extreme of paralysis by the analysis. I think there's got to be some reason that I'm missing, that I'd like to know. Because, of course, we were going to do something so special, so special, that when I take that draft and compare it to other decrees of other autonomy, frankly I see that they come to talk about the same thing. They come to talk about the same thing. Article 1 speaks of the object, in other cases it speaks of creation; the second usually speaks of nature, in others of purpose; in other words, procedures, organization, documentation, classes, the form of application for registration in the register... Normal stuff. And this government still doesn't really clarify us. Because then, as you know, there was a recent appearance by you and your team in the Employment Committee, and there were some demonstrations about it that led me to ask about this matter, and the Director of Services finally gave me an answer that made me even more confused. Because I was talking about the registration of the special employment centres, I asked him if that registration had already been created, and he told me that no..., that, well, that I didn't know exactly, but that, in fact, it was a matter of internal order, that they called it that in internal order, but that... Well, it seemed to me that it was really inappropriate for a serious government that such a matter could be kept in these circumstances, counselor. Because another of Mr. Aburto's arguments was "Man, it will not seem to you, Mr. Itxaso, that the special employment centres are for profit or are not for profit." Man, of course I don't care, but it is that this pre-existing regulatory framework, the General Law on Persons with Disabilities and Their Rights, says that public aid will only be available if it is without a synonym for profit. That is, that is not what Mr Itxaso thinks, but that this regulatory framework is already in place. So, in this matter, Counselor... Anyway, I don't know what you're going to tell me about it, because the question I'm asking you is when, and the question, as no one escapes, has a mission to translate into a motion, demanding you once again to believe it. Because if I ask and try to find out what this looks like to the special employment centres already in existence, well, that seems good to me. They are the ones who have experience, and besides in Basquedi we have to say that we really have model companies and that they are an example to follow in this matter. But they are companies that are registered when the Inem or SEPE functioned. That is, once the transfer has been made, no one else can be registered, unless that specific register is given and created for the special employment centres. So, of course, they're asking and they're trying to find out what opinion they have those who are already operating, and we're asking why the register isn't created so that they can operate others who might potentially do so, others who aren't asked or consulted today, because they don't exist as special employment centres, but have an aspiration to be so. How many are there? Well, I don't know today. Because when this was raised, at the time, it certainly arose from social-based initiatives that sought to raise this issue in this Parliament and push it forward. I do not know whether they have already given up their purpose or have incorporated more initiatives that pursue the same purpose, but the truth is that the Government has done nothing on this matter. I regret to be harsh in this trial that I am doing, Mr Councillor, because I know that you have joined the government through the middle of the legislature, or well advanced, and therefore this stoppage or this whole situation of inaction is not entirely up to you, but certainly, as a member of the government I have to tell you, Mr Councillor, that we think that this matter is getting far away from us, giving a series of explanations that do not have much coherence. And, therefore, I ask you formally: when are you going to create the register for special employment centres?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u90	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u91	Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Mr Itxaso, I will start at the end: surely you will not satisfy my intervention. They almost never satisfy the interventions, in the full powers of control of the Government, to which the alleged ones make. Therefore, this is not going to be a novelty either. But, well, let's try to answer with what we know. Special centres are employment formulas for persons with disabilities; they are enterprises promoted by associations of persons with family members whose main objective is the integration of persons with disabilities into the labour market, and thus into society. I believe that this Government, this Parliament, this country, has repeatedly shown enough of a special dedication to these special employment centres and to persons with disabilities. One of the reasons for this advisor's greatest satisfaction during his time was, before yesterday, to be at the opening of a supermarket with disabled people, made through a special employment centre, between Gureak and Eroski. Therefore, in the Government, in Parliament, in the country, I believe that this is a matter which, always with difficulties, but it is a matter of special dedication, because we know that we are talking about disabled people who need special integration and a special effort for their integration into employment. But, well, in order to qualify as a special employment centre, companies have to have a minimum of 70% of disabled workers, and apply to the competent administration for qualification. These centres have been working with these people with disabilities for many years. It was already reflected in the Lismi of the year 82, and then in article 149 of the Constitution. The Act effectively regulated the establishment, qualification and registration of special employment centres through a register, and also provided for the creation of autonomous registers by the Autonomous Communities. Article 7 stated: "The establishment of Special Employment Centres shall require its qualification and registration in the Register of Centres which the Central Administration or, where appropriate, the Autonomous Administrations shall establish within their competence". In the absence of autonomous regulations, Decree 2273/1985 is currently being implemented, but, as you have reminded me, this Government plans to draw up its own regulations through a decree regulating the establishment and operation of the register of special employment centres. To date, the registration of special employment centres in the Basque Autonomous Community is managed by Lanbide. The function relating to the qualification of special employment centres and their registration was transferred to the Basque Autonomous Community by the agreement of the Joint Transfer Commission of 2010, approved by the Royal Decree of 5 November, on the transfer of functions to the Community in the implementation of labour legislation in the field of work, employment and vocational training, carried out by the Public Employment Service. And you referred to subparagraph B, Article 2(c) of the said agreement, and I will not repeat it here, because it seems to me that it is unnecessary to go further. Lanbide has assumed this function since the beginning of his activity, and, although not expressly mentioned, it is understood that Lanbide's role is to manage employment programmes, as provided for in Article 3(b), on Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service, in Article 3(b) of the Statutes, where in this autonomous body it is reflected, and says in text, "manage employment programmes, training for employment and promotion of self-employment and the creation of enterprises". And within its structure it is the Labor Activation Directorate that manages this record. But I go ahead with the steps that have been taken in the drafting of this decree for the registration of special employment centres. The proposed legislation on the establishment of a register of special employment centres and the regulation of the qualification and registration procedure was approved by agreement of the Lanbide Board of Directors at the meeting on 22 July 2015, two months ago. The initial documentation of the file is being finalized for processing as a general provision. The week of 19 October, the Employment Adviser (this Employment Adviser) is expected to issue the order of commencement of proceedings and, after consideration of the normative text, the order of prior approval thereof. And, once it is completed with the legal report of the Directorate of General Services of Lanbide, it is expected that the last week of October will begin the process of hearing those whose interests may be affected, as well as trade union and business organizations. And the corresponding reports that are available in the order of initiation will be requested.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u92	Thank you, Mr. Toña. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u93	Well, counselor, I'm going to tell you frankly that what's going to cause me the most satisfaction is to have the register of special employment centres set up for all applicants. That's what's going to cause me real satisfaction. But not because it's something we've pushed, we've been behind it and they're going to pull it out of the pressure that opposition groups are making, but because it's actually one more of the active employment policies. And what I told you in the first speech, Mr. Counsellor: when I first asked your predecessor, in December 2013, he said that he would be there by 2014. But when the government answers questions from the Euskal group Herria Bildu ("For when does the government envisage the creation of the register and, consequently, the fulfilment of the parliamentary mandate?"), responds by saying: "As we said, it is very complex to draw up a register without the normative reference of the law." Well, do you know what you've done now? Make the normative reference of the law. That is, that the Government contradicts itself when it says that we are looking for a framework of our own. But if you have cited the framework on which... - No, no, no, The decree of transfers, the General Law of Rights, the legislative precedent of the Lysmi... I mean, if there's all that! What cannot be is that a year ago, a year ago, accompanying this answer, they sent the draft decree. In other words, he did not reach the groups in the regular mail saying "Here goes the government's proposal on this matter." No, no, We had to find it and locate it in responses to other groups, in my case, and try to investigate it all. But, certainly, contradiction on the one hand in 2014, we are in 2015, and then, a year since the draft was made, counselor! I do not really think that this is an exaggeration, nor that it is, in the end, adventurous to say that this government in active employment policies is going very badly, it is going very slowly. I don't know if he's standing still. I know you can overwhelm me with data from all jaez, explaining, within what is the Administration, in this case Lanbide, all the things that are done. Yes, but those things happen, counselor, even when governments are in office. That is, when governments do not have almost executive activity, there is also a record of such activity that could add to the statistics. We ask what the government action is, what the political nerve they employ in things. And here we come to talk about special employment centres and their registration so that they can operate, but it is symptomatic, it is not necessary to talk about other matters that would not be at the subject of this point, but it is that this represents, as little, as nothing else, what the Government's attitude to active employment policies is. And this is an example that is reproduced in other policies that we will be talking about at the time, for sure, but it is that it reflects as nothing what inaction is. But, of course, not the inaction, as I said earlier, of paralysis by analysis. I think there has to be some intention for that, man, a draft that came in October last year (i.e., a year), that was going to be consulted with the agents... But, well, can it take so long to contrast those views with those entities that, by the way, are already registered, and does not depend on their registration on this new draft? It may be that in order to amend certain issues, they would be affected by the decree, once it comes into being, but they can already operate fully, they can benefit from the aid. Because also the agreement I urge you to execute talked about doing so with a retroactive effect, so that the grant orders could also benefit those who registered once the registration was enabled. There have been grant orders, there are no more applicants than those who are already in the ointment, and therefore, as I say to you, counselor, satisfaction will come when that is believed. Although it is true that it is better late than never, but I think that a government would have to show a greater example of diligence and act more promptly, because we are talking about active employment policies, we are talking about disabled people, and we are talking about job integration. Important topics.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u94	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u95	But, Mr Itxaso, you do not want to show us that the government has some hidden intention of not making the record to favor those who are already and not letting those who may be work, do you not? Well, no. Well, no. I have already mentioned to you earlier that it is our duty to respond to the requests of this Parliament – and you know it – and to develop its own rules governing the establishment and operation of this official register of special employment centres. And I will also find it satisfying the day that we can say that it has been created, but I have also told it, and I will repeat it again, that it will be created..., I have given it dates, and that it will be created soon. I would like to emphasise to you that the reality is that, in fact, today, through the Labour Activation Directorate, such a register has already been managed. I would like to remind you that the Management Board, which I have said, at the meeting on 22 July approved the legislative proposal for the creation of the Basque register of special employment centres and the regulation of their qualification, and that once the order of commencement is in place, the procedure will begin as a general provision. We are counting on the continued collaboration of the third sector in this process. It is being carried out in collaboration with entities working in favour of employment with persons with disabilities. We also believe that the development of this decree on the registration of special employment centres should be part of a much broader framework, where the needs, opportunities and challenges of employment are analysed. The intention of this Government is to work together with entities working on the employment of persons with disabilities, on reflection, and on in-depth analysis of the employment of persons with disabilities, to provide them with a regulatory framework that offers them answers from a global perspective to the conclusions to be drawn from this analysis. And the fact that we have to prepare and focus on the elaboration of this decree is certainly postponing this more generic work, but we continue to work in this line. I – it will certainly not be enough for you – have started with this and I finish with this my answer, but I have given you an answer, very concrete and very close dates. And you and this Parliament are aware that the important thing is not the registers, but the special employment centres. The important thing is the objective, not the technique, the instrument. And we are certainly late with the registration and the instrument, although I have given you dates on which we will put it into operation. But I must also tell you that the concern for special employment centres, their promotion, the concern for persons with disabilities, the instruments that the Basque and Lanbide Government are addressing from the budgets to special employment centres, without trying to exclude anyone, are fundamental axes of our active employment policies, and this cannot be called into question. Registration is going to be an instrument, which is necessary and that we will put it in place quickly, but it is an instrument. The fundamental objective we are covering is that the special employment centres are certainly being given priority attention by this Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u96	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "The question is, Gloria Sánchez Martin, a member of the Social Committee of the Social Association, a plan for fighting the fraud that takes place in the contract." Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u97	It is going to be a year of the monographic session that we devoted in this Parliament to the immediate challenge that citizens were demanding of us, to combat unemployment and poverty. At this meeting we adopted more than half a hundred resolutions, and unfortunately the Government, despite having supported many of those measures, has not done its duty. One such measure was to make the specific plan for strengthening human and material resources aimed at combating recruitment fraud. Since then, the vacant posts still to be transferred from the Labour Inspectorate have been filled, but there has been no increase in the number of staff, as this Parliament has also expressly requested on 19 February this year and promised the Employment and Social Policy Adviser, Mr Juan Mari Aburto, at the plenary session on 28 November. But there is also no specific plan, a shock plan in the face of an increasing reality: abuse of temporary recruitment in a fraudulent way, false self-sustaining, or abusive part-time contracts. Counselor, the data you know better than I do. Economic recovery does not at present translate into a reduction in the voluminous temporality of employment. In Euskadi an average of 32,000 contracts of less than thirty days are signed per month, and a quarter of them extend to less than seven days. The undefined barely exceed 7 % of the total, and more than one in two workers has lost their indefinite status during the crisis. It's reality. Over the past four years, adjustments have been made to employment, unlike in other European Union countries. It is not understood that we are talking about economic recovery, that it must be translated into a recovery in employment, and that in practice these recovered jobs are broken down in the way that allows for Rajoy's brutal labour reform. We already know that his Government does not share this model, but his Government has the power to limit those effects, including by creating work inspection campaigns aimed at reducing this tearing reality, different from those carried out by the State inspection and which do not go there. I therefore ask you: when are you going to submit a specific work inspection plan that will prevent the various fraudulent forms of recruitment?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u98	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u99	The head of the table, chief physician, members of the legislature. As you have already mentioned, a question of his party in November 2014 was answered that the Eucharist Workers' plan took two different measures; it is true. The measures concerning the increase in the staffing of the Labour and Social Security Inspectorate in the Basque Country have received the approval of this Government, and the specific employment relationship is being established by the Department of Public Administration and Justice, which will allow for the establishment of six new places in the collective of labour inspectors, of which four are heads of unit of the inspection system. As regards the specific inspection campaigns in this field, I have to point out that, in the annual programming carried out by the Labour Inspectorate of the Basque Country, which you are well aware of, for the financial year 2016, particularly in the field of combating fraud and job insecurity, three campaigns have been established as a priority, without prejudice to the fact that the fight against fraud carried out by the Labour Inspectorate is also carried out in an important way through the control of irregular employment carried out by the Labour Inspectorate under the General Administration of the State within the framework of its competences.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u100	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u101	Counselor, after a year those six places that were promised then have not yet been created. That's a reality. And I am glad that specific campaigns will be carried out in this area by 2016. I'm a work inspector and I know that task well and my colleagues. I assure you that my interest is to combat these fraudulent forms of recruitment, but to do so we must provide them with sufficient human and material resources and direct their action to a specific place. Specific campaigns can be carried out on temporary fraud. The plans are to set priorities, set targets and evaluate their functioning, and today one of our main weapons to combat precariousness is to punish those who use this labour legislation to directly violate workers' rights. Companies must gain competitiveness by other means, not by devaluation of labour rights and reduction of wages. We need a less complaining and more active government, more determined. We must use all the powers, also those we have in the field of inspection, to tackle this situation, which not only impoverishes workers, but will condition the maintenance of the pension system, because contributions are lower, and condemns workers to depend now and in the future on social protection. We must now take steps not to condemn Euskadi to a poorer future. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u102	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u103	The weapons to combat precariousness, one of them certainly, are the campaigns of the labour inspectorate. And I'm going to detail the ones that are being carried out in an ordinary way and that by 2016 are already planned. First, the part-time recruitment review campaign. The campaign will be carried out by both labour inspectors and labour subcontractors, and will be aimed at controlling part-time recruitment: verifying whether the time worked is actually the time indicated in the contract, or whether, on the contrary, the recruitment regulations have been breached and using the contract for the performance of more days than those indicated in the part-time contracts. Second, recruitment fraud control campaign. The purpose of this campaign, also carried out on a regular basis by the Labour Inspectorate, is to determine whether the modalities of temporary recruitment that are being used by companies are in line with the causes established by the law in order to carry them out, or whether they are abuses of law, if they are not non-compliance. The purpose of the Directive is to determine compliance with the rules in force concerning the temporary recruitment of workers, especially undertakings which, by the number of workers employed under these arrangements, or by the number of contracts concluded, consider it appropriate to verify compliance with the requirements laid down for these contractual arrangements. And third and final campaign, campaign to control discrimination in the employment relationship. The campaign will start by denouncing the workers or their legal representatives, and its purpose is to determine the working conditions of the workers, ensuring that wages, working hours, rights and working conditions are those which are in accordance with the rules in force and the collective implementing agreements. And I will end by saying, of course, that this Government trusts in the professionalism of its Labour Inspectorate, and that its Labour Inspectorate sufficiently defends, effectively, with its weapons, the workers against the possible abuses of employers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u104	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Question 15 in theme list: "Interadectition by Antonio Damborenea Basterrechea of the Basque Groups of Investigations to Enplegu and the head physician of police society, thanks to retirement to the reduction of unemployment." Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u105	Thank you very much, Madam President. You must be acknowledged, Mr. Counsellor, that in the time that you have been in office, you give headlines and strong phrases, to put it mildly. With many I can agree, with some not. Previously it has been mentioned that the companies passed from Lanbide. It is clear that I agree with you, what is happening is that it will have to be remedied so that that does not happen. There are others I do not agree with, such as the one you asked young people not to leave and to endure. And there is another in which I do agree, however, and it is the reason for the interpellation, which were his statements in June, in which his forecast was that by 2020 we could be almost unemployed and fully employed, of course thanks to the government's activity (it could not be otherwise), but above all thanks to some variables that were blowing in our favor. So, these positive variables are the lower birth rates, and therefore they are becoming less and less Basques in the labour market; and then there are the retirements and pre-retirements of others. And on the thread of this..., that I agree with you with what you are asking, but, of course, the following question is: Is this the model we want? Is this the model we want, that there are fewer and fewer active people working? But that's why I'm telling you that I didn't agree with that first sentence of yours, when I asked the young people, "Don't go, stay, and hold on." Because then we were also aware of the report of the Basque Youth Council, in which some things were said, and I will read them to you. They are what they are, but they give the measure of where we are and what is happening. When they talk about the young population and the migratory movements and how we are losing, they go younger than they come... yes, that's a fact that we all see. The problem I think is more serious, because those who are going to work outside are more qualified than those who come here, and therefore I think it is even worse. It is bad enough to say that the migration balance of young people is not good, but also what young people we are exporting and what young people we are importing, or what kind of jobs at the end – because this is the issue – are being created in the autonomous community or are at the disposal of young Basques. Another positive outcome of this report is that younger people have come from other autonomous communities than those who have gone to other autonomous communities in the Basque Country. Of course, it is that most young people in the Basque Country who are going away in recent years are not going to other autonomous communities, they are going abroad, as we all know. And these young people from other autonomous communities who come here come to important, relevant positions, or what positions are they occupying? Because, if we see what is also said regarding the working population, that evolution shows a decrease in the number of assets among the young population with university studies and an increase in assets among people with lower than university studies, then we will realize that it is happening... Yes, they come young with fewer studies than they go. And I keep saying that I think it's a bad thing for us, as an autonomous community and as a country. If then we have that the young people in the Basque Country have another added problem, that does not exist in the rest of Spain, that is that they have a rate of temporality higher than the average of Spain, according to this article, and moreover they are the ones that have the most complicated to be able to emancipate, with much difference, especially for the price of the housing... Today we have known data from Álava, which I will not quote you because you have also seen them, and obviously in your department you have them. And in view of this I agree with you that we could end the unemployment in a few years without doing anything. But it is clear that this is an unsustainable system, not for pensions anymore (and I don't care which one is national or which one you want to raise), but it is clear that this is a situation that leads us nowhere. And, therefore, it is a possibility, as the Councillor tells us, that by 2020 we could get full employment, but are we getting it that way? So, the question, the interpellation we're asking you, I think... I mean, I agree with this data you give, but I suppose you agree with what you disagree with is that we get to full employment in 2020, or 2025, with these, as you say, "variables that blow in our favor", which are retirements, pre-retirements and young people leaving. Obviously, when young people leave and work out we take away the data of people targeted at unemployment, and then we have fewer young people left, and we can say that we improve the numbers. But I do not think that is the formula to which the Basques want to aspire, or at least we in the People's Party do not agree with this formula, and that is why our inquiry is in the sense of whether this government intends to do something so that in 2020 we no longer have unemployment, but that we have more Basques working in the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u106	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u107	Mr. President, Congressman, chief officers, good morning. Mr. Damborenea, in some things we agree. A lot. In some other things... I believe that in this very Parliament I have said that I was wrong. And I think being wrong and recognizing the mistake is something that dignifies us. Because then I also said it's good for our young people to go abroad. It is good, because they can learn a language (the third in our case, after the Basque and the Spanish, or after the Spanish and the Basque), and a work experience. But most of all, it's good for you to get back to work here. Let them come back, because they will have more facilities to work. I'm saying it over and over again. I am encouraging, and we are working on a draft, on a family and childhood strategy, so that our young people have the children they want. This is not so much a policy of promoting birth, but of encouraging couples to have the children they want. And right now couples don't have the kids they want to have. They want to have two and they have one, because the economic situation does not allow it. We can therefore refer to many issues. I will first look at the subject of the question, which was that the working population is falling, because there are more and more retirements. Well, we're going to turn around a little bit, at least the data. Let's look at the membership first, how many people you're listing. Social Security membership has been growing in recent months, and the occupation is growing in Euskadi. The occupation is growing in Euskadi. There are not only people who leave because they retire and people who enter – less – because they are young. No, no. Net occupation is growing in Euskadi. The labour market is bigger. The average number of high school participants was higher in September even in August, an absolutely unusual fact. We grew up in 6,116 more affiliates, when in all of Spain there were 9,000 more. It was the biggest increase in the last ten years. And that's clearly an increase in occupation. It's the best data for sure. According to the same data, our autonomous community has 891,525 workers affiliated with Social Security: there are 18,756 more than a year ago, 2.15 more. Then we're not just increasing data because more people retire or because fewer people come in. No, no, There is more active population. According to the September data, in Euskadi we have 155,000 unemployed, and that unemployment has been reduced in the last month (in few, but it is very significant because it is September) by 347. But in total we have 14,115 unemployed people less than in 2014 in the same month, and 18,756 more members of Social Security. And those data are not the result of chance. The economic situation in Euskadi remains harsh, very harsh for many families, especially for these more than 155,000 unemployed and for the more than 80,000 unemployed who have been in this situation for more than two years. The effects of the crisis, of the recent double recession, are noted, and are very noticeable, but economic indicators tell us that we have left behind the hole in which we fall, that the economy is now growing. I don't know why we have so much interest in saying that Spain is doing well and that Euskadi is doing badly! This growth in Euskadi, it is true, is not reflected in the impact we would like on employment, but there it is. According to the latest data from Eurostat, the Basque Institute of Statistics, gross domestic product recorded an annual growth of 2,7 % in the second quarter of 2015. The annual growth of membership is quite similar, 2.1%. (We all know that employment is growing a little below, or rather below, lately, what is the increase in economic activity.) And, as the Basque Government points out, GDP growth is expected to be 2.5% during this year. The Basque economy is moving, and it is reflected in growth, economic activity and labour market data. Mr Damborenea, since the end of 2013 our GDP has grown quarterly; the trend is clear upwards. There are other objective indicators that also speak of economic improvement: industrial production, exports of goods, consumption, sales of housing to which you have referred, vehicles, among others. Our GDP has grown, I said, quarter by quarter. And, likewise, the annual balances since December 2013 refer to a reduction in unemployment. For twenty-two consecutive months the annual balance is positive. There are fewer and fewer unemployed, with an increasing tendency to widen the distance with the situation of the same month of the previous year. In September of this year there has also been a fundamental turning point, and it is that 14,115 people stopped less than in September 2014, a decrease of 8,33, which is the best annual balance sheet since December 2013 and better balance sheet than in the Spanish state as a whole. But we are going to take a closer look at unemployment, because I think it is important to stress that since September 2007 (i.e. since the last September before the crisis) unemployment had not been reduced in the ninth month of the year, during that time. Before the crisis, the usual thing was, of course, that in September the labour market recovered from the slump of economic activity itself in August, but in the last years of crisis this had not been the case, and the truth is that for us it has been a very pleasant surprise. We're going to wait for the EPA and PRA data to tell us that the second half of this month will come out. But I'm just circling some data on what's already happened. They are quantitative, not qualitative ciphers. Now I'm not doing ratings that they like or don't like, lucky headlines or less lucky headlines. It's numbers, quantities. And this government is aware – and I finish this first intervention – that this recruitment to which I am referring is of low quality, of low quality. That it is also not a differential factor, on the other hand (I would already like it to be), with the whole state. Only 7% of our contracts made this year are indefinite. I think we have to do a lot in this field. With the Basque Youth Council, which you mentioned... Well, first of all, it has to be said that in the data they quoted at their appearance there was a total mix of the data of the Spanish Youth Council and the data offered by the Basque Youth Council. Then there was a rectification, but they were very different data, and fortunately for the young Basques were, being bad, better data of the Basque youth than data of the Spanish youth. But I'm gonna tell you one more thing, too. The day before yesterday was the second meeting that this councillor had with the Basque Youth Council. Still yesterday. And, they say, in the last fifteen years they have only had two meetings with an Employment Advisor, and both have been in this government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u108	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u109	Thank you very much, Madam President. I agree in this case with the rectification of his sentence that it is good for young people to go outside, but, of course, to then come back here and be able to work here, better prepared than when they left. And I know of some measure that the Government has taken to try to get some of these young people back here, and in a few months' time they will have to ask the Government how effective that measure has been that it approved and contributed. You tell me you're making a draft of family and childhood so that young people have the children they want, and it seems very good to me. I suppose, apart from the draft that you do, other things will influence those issues. But there is a precedent, there is a precedent, because the young Basques, with the same report, are the ones who cannot access a home. To a market house. I'm not talking about social housing, I'm talking about housing... whether it's for purchase or rent. And that is also reflected in that report. So, of course, I'm starting from the base that it's very good to make a draft so that they have the children they want, but somewhere. So, I guess we'll have to take previous measures in the area of housing so that these young people can be emancipated. Because at the moment another of the problems that young Basques have is that they are the last to be able to emancipate themselves also from all of Spain, regardless of the data or that they live better here than elsewhere in Spain. You have quoted me the data from September, and I am delighted with the data we have had in September, because they have been spectacular. But the September data are the September data. If we talk about August, in August all the industrial employment that had been created throughout the year in Gipuzkoa was destroyed, for example. And that's a fact of August, and that's a bad fact, very bad, because we're also talking about industrial employment, which is the important one and which I suppose we all aspire to believe in, because it induces other jobs in sectors such as services. And let's see, I didn't say Spain's going well and Euskadi's going badly. Let's regulate everything, obviously, thanks to Mariano Rajoy's policies in these four years, by the way, alone in everything. But thanks to that. And we're doing well because we're in Spain, and Spain's doing well, relatively. Relatively, because obviously no one would like, first, to be as we were three years ago or four years ago, neither do we want to be as we are now, nor with employment, as you say, which is... of low quality, not, of course, the next one that is being created here for many young people. Yeah. And you can tell me, "That's the fault of labor reform." Well, maybe without labor reform there wouldn't be any! There wouldn't be any. Because another of his phrases, which he also has out there, is that young people have to reject certain jobs. Man, let an Employment Advisor tell the young people who have to reject certain jobs, now he says they can go, that it's okay for them to get out... Well, well, you will understand that you can say it and you can do it, but I do not know whether it is best to reject jobs, as you have said. And what we do hope is that, if the Basque Government, as we have announced here today, is in a family-child draft so that our young people can have the children they want, it will accompany that draft of other measures, that now that we have active employment policies, which are the important ones, that we have been the last autonomous community to have them, eight years after they had all the autonomous communities, because the Basque Government that we had did not want to assume them, and when there was a change of government, with the Socialist Party, the first agreement that we reached with them was that we had to transfer and we had to reach agreement with the active employment policies, and that is Lanbide, and that is the instrument that this government has and that would have to work well... And we would have to try to get that, as Mr. Counsellor said, companies pass from Lanbide, not only that they stop passing, but that they are calling because Lanbide works well and gives opportunities to young Basques.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u110	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u111	Mr Damborenea, I insist that we still have a lot of work to do. As it is known that I have said many things in these seven months, I do not remember if I said that young people reject jobs. In any case, I am sure that if you show it, then I could have hinted at it or it could have been picked up like this. But what I have certainly wanted to say is that what we all want is for young people to have various employment opportunities, so that they can stay with the best and reject those who are bad and very bad. In any case, it is not my intention to transmit self-congratulation image. The labour market situation remains one of the priorities of this Government; that all people have access to decent work remains our goal as a country. That the unemployment rate remains simply too high is obvious. Next week we will know the data from the labour force survey and the PRA, which will give us a fixed picture of the reality of the three summer months. We won't be talking about August, September... well, we'll be talking about a more consolidated data. But in any case, the unemployment rate is still way above what we like, for sure. And I want to highlight this, because the collective of people who are standing still, especially the long-term ones, has to worry us, we are all especially concerned. We are concerned, because the responsibility of the Government is to use the tools at its disposal and to develop measures that we believe will drive the labour market. It is always difficult to make estimates, and more so in an area where the increasingly accelerated technological advances and the effects of globalization have an unforeseeable and drastic impact. More than once I have heard that economists are forensic economists, because we only know how to say what has happened, and much worse to predict what will happen. I am an economist and I also consider myself there, within that chapter of professionals, but there are also many among you. However, and with all caution, I am going to provide some data that Lanbide's prospecting cabinet works with, and that will help us plan scenarios, within this uncertainty of action in active employment policies. Between 2014 and 2024 – you mentioned – the population of the Basque Autonomous Community will descend around 85,000 people (I repeat this from the forensic economy, which we sometimes make mistakes in predictions), and will decrease the working population, according to the demographic projections of the Eustat. The same will also happen throughout the European Union, because the working-age population will be reduced in all states below the age of 45, and in order to mitigate the decline of this active population, all the countries of the European Union are and are taking different measures in different areas. We must also take into account the level of ageing of our population, but this level of ageing of our population is not the responsibility of our Government, of course, but in any case of our cultures. Lanbide's cabinet predicts that for this period we will need 270,000 vacancies per generation. With the consolidation of economic recovery, the foreign population will begin to grow from 2015 (we will need it, according to Eustat data), but at a lower rate than in previous decades, in which we have had full employment, until 2007, at least a few years. Until 2024, in a cautious estimate, the Basque economy will create, in a very cautious estimate, 36,000 new jobs, and if we add the vacancies by generational relief (which is the replacement job) and the new jobs (expansion job), by 2024 300,000 jobs will have to be covered. And then the unemployment rate, as I said, will actually be between 6,5 and 8 % in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, as a result of the improvement of the economic situation. And, therefore, the forecasts we have are telling us – on the contrary, I believe, of what you say in your argument – that new jobs will indeed be created in the Basque Autonomous Community, but that what is obvious, because this has always happened, is that there will be replacement jobs, but more so on purely demographic issues, as in our entire European environment. The expected decline in the activity rate, also for demographic reasons, will be tempered by an increase in the foreign population...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u112	Thank you... Thank you, Mr. Toña. Your time is up. "The nineteenth subject on the subject's list is "the question of the law of the Basque Barrius Barrius Barroja Popula, a member of education, politics, and the chief department of the Cultural Cultur, Donostia 2016, as to the present state of the project." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillors, councillors, good morning. Well, a specific question in relation to a question that we have talked about more often in this House, because it is a very important project, cultural, Basque, Spanish, European, the cultural capital of San Sebastián 2016, and some question needs to be brought forward. We are two months away, a little over two months away so that San Sebastián, together with Wroclaw, is the European capital of culture 2016. The great doubt has been the involvement of private funding, to date. Well, there have been many more doubts, because Bildu had us, of course, in permanent doubt about this issue. But, well, at this time we have read through the media and some public presentation that has been made that it was announced that several companies (median companies and small companies in Gipuzcoanas) contributed a total of 42,000 euros to San Sebastián 2016, for what they have constituted the Innova 2016 network, which becomes the first sponsorship in cash of the project of cultural capital, to which other companies can adhere predictably. And that's why this is the question: How are we on this issue of private financing? Okay, it's a major effort, they're a number of companies that get involved; 42,000 euros is a very small amount in relation to the budgeted, or the forecasts in relation to that private economic participation in San Sebastián 2016. But, well, that is the effort that must be thanked from here to that network of companies, of 42,000 euros. But much more needs to be done, so we ask you. We are in the Basque Parliament, and as a member of the employers' office, and because of the economic impact of the project, which will give us a concrete picture of the issue of private financing today. I mean, there are two months left, and we want to talk about this. Later, in some committee appearance we will talk about more things.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u114	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mrs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u115	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. It is true that only two months are left for the opening of the European capital of Cultura. We are all amazed to see when this day will come, and meanwhile the people are all aware of the actions and projects that will take place within the next year. As we have constantly reminded ourselves of this parliament, the head of culture has been difficult in its course. That was not at all helpful to get private incomes. But in the past few months there is another sort of trust in the Patronate, and thanks to this new atmosphere, we can restore illusion and give more credit to private agents. In June, I had a chance to tell you about the development and progress of the project. I want to remind myself of the two great ideas which I remarked at that moment: on the one hand, the optimism and illusion of the new photographs of the institutions, and on the other, to ensure the success of Donostia 2016, two fundamental challenges, private protections, and projects. At this moment we're working together and co-ordinately co-ordinately. Now that there are new managers of the organizations, we are making a great effort to open the gates, to build bridges, and to tighten relations with society and corporations. Donostia has changed its manner of working around the project 2016 and around the patricians, and we are suspicious of the results. An example of this is the economic contribution made by fourteen medium-sized and small Gipuzcoan companies, which you yourself mentioned (a total of 42,000 euros), and even more recent the event that took place yesterday, a dinner organized by the Royal Society and Donostia 2016, with the aim of bringing us closer to the companies, making them participants in the project and transferring them the opportunity to join it, an event attended by more than a hundred companies and entities from a total of 250 attendees. So we are beginning to reap the fruits of the work done, Mr Barrio. The event held yesterday is the best example of this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u117	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor. Indeed, that's why. The event held yesterday we have all seen by the media, mainly the Gipuzcoan media. Well, there it is, an element of work. An element that had to have been done a long time ago, because two months ago making a dinner to link to the companies is fine, it had to have been done a long time ago, but we already know what Bildu's unfortunate role in this whole project has been, the expectations since the City of San Sebastian have not been met... Yeah, yeah, let me talk. No effort in the search for funding...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u118	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u119	...desire, and irresponsibility. That is, at six months (six months) there was no private financing plan for San Sebastián 2016, and it had been stipulated that it had to be 4 million euros what private financing was going to contribute to San Sebastián 2016. It's been a complete wish. Well, we did ask the government. I mean, two months left and yesterday there was a dinner, but apart from those 42,000 euros and dinner, what conclusions can you draw from the contacts that the employers, the project management is making right now? We wanted to bring this issue forward because we also want to draw attention to that circumstance. One hundred Gipuzcoans or Basque companies yesterday participating, okay. What contacts have you had? What do they expect? What can you tell us about something concrete? Because it's necessary. We are going to have some other parliamentary appearance, I say again, to talk about the cultural issue, the agenda item and the topic of participation, events, exhibitions, but we do want some news today a little more concrete than a dinner of perspectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u120	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u121	Donostia is a project between the 2016 teams, the city, the country, which demands a share. The work done is great: We walked with the utmost discretion during the progress of planning and organization, because it was necessary to achieve a climate of trust. And now it's time to develop what's planned and gather fruit. Donostia 2016 opened his doors: All companies, entities, have a human opportunity to enter them. All will be welcome. October will be a crucial month for the project. In addition to an approach to the business sector, a major socialisation effort will also be made. The official programme will be made public, and a very didactic communication campaign will be launched, so that everyone will understand what capital is. Therefore, this month is very important to revive the illusion. But, as I said, to make capital a real success, everyone's involvement is essential. It's a day-to-day job. A week ago there were fourteen companies, next week I sincerely hope they will be more, but all this involves discreet work, and at the moment the information will be given, when it can be done. It is a shared responsibility, and here too should be the commitment of the ministry. Because I am really surprised by your concern about the financing aspect and the support for the project: as important as the achievement of financing and private participation is the real commitment and funding of the institutions that are members of the employers' organization. We are involved in this, which I do not think is the case with the ministry, and I therefore ask you to convey your concerns and demands to the Spanish Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The twenty-first theme in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Reformation, Rebeka Ubera Aranz, and EH, made to the head physician of the Medical Department, in the end of life, the patient's decision of the past process." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u123	Good afternoon. Chief of Parliament, Mr. Darpón, good noon. It is clear that in the end process of life, EH Collect has to guarantee the determination or right of a person and wish to default. I mean, we have to place the person in the centre for the preference of his will. Now, our work, the work we have in hand, will be the law which ought to be allowed to seek the best means by law to be clear, to respect the rights of the person's decision, with the other rights. So we can secure dignity in the end of life. Death is the only certain thing that everyone here and everybody else has in life. Sooner or later, we all have to die. Therefore it affects us all, and we wish to die as best we can: With as little suffering as possible, our near ones are all around us, and our friends and families do not suffer too much at the end of their lives. We can meet with a number of situations every day, even in areas that influence the Administration, hospitals, old homes... There's a discussion, and it'll be getting bigger and bigger in this society that's getting older and older. And what we're seeing is that society is more advanced than legislation than institutions. We have, therefore, an excellent opportunity of making a good law, with this law in our hands, and of making a precursor in the matter which affects society; I'm just saying, if you're going to be a pioneer, you're going to beat the patriotic system today. Now we've had a scene, we've heard a lot of different thoughts on the board, a very multiple criteria, and we've also had the director of the Medical Department's Security and the Sanitarian Contracy, but that didn't solve the attitude and opinion of the Medical Department about a decent death. And now we're going to work with the rights, and we're going to work with the law's treatment, and we think that we've seen the EH Collectorna, and that's how it's convenient to know what the opinion of this government is. So, Mr. Darpón, we'd be grateful to you for the answer today and explain if you'd like to see if the medical department is in favor of a legal frame which will guarantee the patient's autonomy and decision in the end of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Chief, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners. Ubera andrea asks me a concise question: she asks me about the position of the Department of Health on the development of a legal framework that ensures that the autonomy and decision of the patient are prioritized in the final process of life. You ask me after your group has already registered a proposal in this House, and I am sure you know what the mechanisms are for its elaboration. He asks me in a plenary session where I have four minutes to reply to him, when he has not been interested in my position in the Commission on Human Rights, which is where the text is being processed. And you ask me that after a member of my department actually came to the committee on his own request. Mrs. Wells, it's part of the Dreaming Department of Health, and, as you know, it was just as well to appreciate the proposal, according to a series of specific reasons, that M.M. In that report you can find your answer to your question. That's the government position.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u126	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u127	Well, we're not even responding to the plune today. The medical department representative came the other day, and we waited for him. It was not clear what the position of this government is, nor today. And, well, we'll see what the attitude will be. But we really demand that men in this law should be on the side of a law which is the end of their lives, and that your real advanced position should be the pioneer, because the society of the Renaissance, of the Basque People, deserves it, and that this may help us to overcome so many ancient laws, which the State imposes upon us, contrary to the rights of men. So, among other things, it's up to you, too, so it's up to us. We'll do the best we can...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u129	These questions are to be treated with seriousness and exactness, as we have in our hands to-day. Jarraian, berriz aipatuko ditut Gobernuak 2014ko ekainean emandako txostenaren zenbait alderdi nagussi: "The right to a dignified life is recognized by different international legal systems, being the Declaration of Human Rights one of the references, and just as that right must be safeguarded until the end of life itself. In short, dignity must be extended and guaranteed to the end. "The Act regulating the autonomy of the patient, in this same line, has come to strengthen the dignity of the human person, respect for the autonomy of his will and his privacy, and it is important to highlight the subjection of health care to the prior consent of patients and families." "The principle of the autonomy of the person in the Euskadi field has had normative support with regard to the rights of citizens to receive information about their process, to the free choice between the options presented to them by the medical officer of their case, with written consent for the performance of any intervention, and also to refuse treatment, which is materialized in various documents." "In addition to the different normative developments, it is worth mentioning, on the one hand, bioethics as an instrument that guides a subject such as the subject of this proposal, and on the other hand the strategy in palliative care. Because we must not forget that palliative care, as the WHO has pointed out, is one of the pillars of care for patients with cancer and other chronic processes in advanced and terminal phases." "This scenario" – we say from the government in the Txostena sent – "leads us to assume the responsibility of taking new steps to advance and give a better response to physical, emotional and social needs in the final process of life, through a law that must be based on respect for people about their own life, health, disease and death." I think the government's opinion is very clear. That's all; thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u130	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. twenty-second theme in the subject list: "The question is, Patxio Eleola Azpeitia, a member of the Basque Socialists, made to the Chief of Environmental and Regional Policy, on re-acting of the continuing protocol of the World Railway." Mr. Ella, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u131	Good afternoon. Good afternoon, by now. The head of the table, the rest of the company, the chief physician, and all the members of the assembly, and the rest also. The chief physician, a few days ago, explained his meeting with the Ministry of Sustament, on the purpose of developing Eukadin at a high speed. The chief physician seemed pleased to find that we were extremely surprised, knowing that Rajoy's government stopped what was in his hands. These doubts belong not only to our own, but also to the European Union. As a matter of fact, dropping taxes, restricting incomes, and increasing expenses, they don't collect. I don't know if the chief physician still has that optimism. The one that didn't solve was: what a solution to the connection to Europe is to be given from Irun. We don't know anything about it. All we know is this: that he intends to refresh a mixed commission now created four years ago. He also said it on the last committee. Therefore, for all this, we ask the following question: What steps are you going to take, ma'am, through your section, to refresh the commission that was announced between the Ministry of Sustament in 2011, the Ministry of Adifen, the Giant Foru of Gipuz, the Esunko and the City of Irun? Or, since he has never met, to begin with? We don't want to think that the last meeting we had in Madrid was not called Mayor Irungo because he wasn't in EAJ.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u132	Thank you, Mr. Ella. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u133	Yes, good afternoon, ladies of tables, chief of departments, members of the legislature. In analysis and examination, the institutions which signed the 2011 protocol must be shared by the Ministry of Sustament, the Giant Fordunda of Gipu, the Council of Irunf, Renf, the Euf, the Euskal Raskal Railway and the Basque Railway. In fact, this railway treatment has a direct influence on them. As you know, the Ministry of Sustament is at the head of the subor of that protocol. So I asked the Minister to make a meeting call for that committee, the same meeting we had at Madrid on the 22nd of September. Before, on the 6th of May, 2013, I had a meeting with the minister, and I asked him to assemble a committee of the Irung protocol. Again, I asked him in letters on May 14, 2013. Besides, Mayor Irungo did the same thing, joining us. This department is working with that council. Seeing that the Ministry and the Spanish Government have given no answer to these petitions, we've begun our work with Mayor Irungo, the Council of Irun, that we should do this with the mayor. Yesterday, Irun's meeting. It was the intention of planning on the Ministry to find a solution to the station at the high speed of the Irungo, which accords with the planning of a city that is approved by that city. We hope that the Ministry of Sustament will accept the united planning between this government and the Council of Irungo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mr. Ella, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u135	Yeah, thanks for what I said. But I don't think you've given the exact answer. That you're doing it, that you asked for it. But we don't see any results, and Mayor Irungo hasn't even seen them. And Mayor Irungo, like the town of Irun, is waiting. As you know, they are waiting for a situation of 40,000 square meters, and not only because it's not only a city building matter, but if we make the network here, we don't know how the connection with France will be, we think the situation's pretty poor and slow. You asked for... and yesterday the deputy chief physician was at Irun. Yeah, I know. But the mayor of Irungo is asking for the people of Irungo to be with the Ministry. Because, as you have well stated, the Ministry is the person who has the power to call the meeting and make a meeting. But you, as chief physician, and your department, have its own cares to encourage. As I said before, you got out of the last meeting satisfied. You said that you had heard the positive work, and that it was so effective that this was just the words harbinger. But, of course, there's no mistake. We understand that the Chinese and the three capitals are important, but that the people of Irun are a fourth important point. And as for that, I think you can't blame Madrid and leave the locals around here on one side for now. You must treat all the citizens alike (be of the family, be EAJs), because other capitals, a year ago, weren't invited to you. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u136	Thank you, Mr. Ella. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u137	Yeah, I have to say the same thing again. In that protocol that was signed in 2011, a committee is appointed for continuing and doing things. And it's the Ministry of Sustament of that Successor. And with Mayor Irungo, we either called or asked the Ministry to set up that commission. How we didn't have an answer, and set our deputy course, I then agreed that I would work with the mayor and promote a proposal from the local administration or the institutions, and that we'd go with him to push those jobs to Madrid. I also explained this work on the committee, and I think I already explained it to the mayor and explained it to him in the city where he was in the country, and so we went to the meeting in Madrid, because they were made, and then we went to Madrid with some proposals. And in the case of Irun, that wasn't done yet. On the other hand, on September 8th, 2011, the Ministry of Sustament, the Adif and the Euskok, the "Y" network, and the French railway line, had a new solution to connect. And to this end two phases and special time-muters were established: the one to connect by the third thread to the link we now have, and the second to the other by a high-speed stroke of Astyana and France, but the point is still to be determined. So we think there's still a lot of work to do...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-16.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and eighteen.
