ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Ogasun and Preve care Board Iductation 2016 Euskal Autonomy Erdigo. About the law project that the year's General budget supports. Discipline and final resolution. According to the precedents of the past years, this is the procedure which will be used to discuss the judgment. First, the first round of the teams, the 30-minute, the big one, to show what position the groups have on the judgment and the corrections they have reserved, the reason to reserve. The answer shift will be 10 minutes. When the debate is over, the divisional corrections, those which are reserved, will vote together according to their groups. In any case, if any team requests to remove any corrections, that's how it's done. Then we'll vote for the squares that collect the savings of the past, including the changes approved by the committee. As to the corrections made on the articles, they will also vote together according to the legislatures. Then the articles that are reserved for the corrections will be put to vote, and finally the other articles of judgment and the name of the law will be voted. After these explanations, we're going to argue. First, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u1	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Last step towards the adoption of this draft budget, which will come out with the favourable vote of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. I will use these minutes of intervention to repeat the same things that I have been defending in the last month and a half of parliamentary procedure. I will explain why UPyD will vote against this draft budget. I will also explain what partial amendments we have maintained throughout this time and which we believe are necessary to improve this draft budget. And I will make an additional comment on some pacts that have existed between different political parties to incorporate into this draft budget some amendments, in particular those tabled by the Socialist Group and adopted in committee by the Basque Nationalist Party. I want to say that I am not going to say, I think, anything new about what I have said all these weeks and that we continue to think that this draft budget is not the draft budget that Basque citizens need. And I keep saying, because I still think so, that there was an alternative to this draft budget and the political project of the Basque Nationalist Party. I think that there should be an alternative, not just budgetary but political, to the government of the Basque Nationalist Party. We think, therefore, that it is about defending these same ideas and doing so with the same conviction that I have done all this time. First of all, I wanted to start by saying that we have to recognize what the Basque reality is. It must be recognized that we enjoy a well-being clearly superior to that of the majority of the Spanish Autonomous Communities, I say this because it is usually one of the arguments that the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party puts forward to attack the groups that criticize this draft budget. So I want to say it myself before anyone else: We recognize Basque reality. We recognize that there is nothing in Spain comparable to the Basque system of social protection that exists today in Euskadi. There is nothing like the income guarantee income we enjoy in the Basque Country. There is nothing like the supplementary housing benefit that we enjoy in Euskadi, and that we dedicate amounts of money in relation to health, to education, to social spending that is greater than the amounts of money that the other autonomous communities dedicate. And therefore, this must be acknowledged. But, in any case, I want to say that this is not the debate or the issue today. Mrs Gorospe herself made these approaches to me in the debate on the amendment of the whole of UPyD, when she reiterated that we are in a better position than the rest of the autonomous communities, but, however, we think that this is not the issue, it is not the debate today, it is not the issue that we are debating today. This is not, therefore, because, moreover, the better situation in which we are in relation to the rest of the autonomous communities, is not a consequence of what has been done in recent months, it is not a consequence of this draft budget, much less; it is a consequence of much deeper reasons worked out for years and which obviously respond to a production model different from that of the majority of the autonomous communities, to the power of industry or to the business model we have at Euskadi. And I therefore insist that this is not the issue, and because in addition – and this is what we are most concerned about – there are still thousands of citizens who are having a bad time in Euskadi, there are still thousands of citizens who are in economic crisis in Euskadi, there are still thousands of citizens who are threatened by possible evictions. There are thousands of citizens who are suffering, have suffered in recent times and continue to suffer today poverty, child poverty, energy poverty. There are thousands of Basque citizens who are having a bad time, and there is also a great deal of inequality in the Basque Country which has, by the way, increased over the last few years as a result of the economic crisis. Therefore, what we need to analyse is, we think, what resources are available to us, whether we could have more resources available for them to address the real needs of the citizens, and whether the budget lines actually reflect the priorities that Basque citizens need. And that is where our amendment was clearly confined to the whole and where all our partial amendments are also inserted. Therefore, what I think we should do is to analyse whether we can make more resources available to devote them to the real needs of the people and improve the Basques, and to analyse whether the budgetary distribution, i.e. the budgetary and political priorities contained in this project, we share them or not. And in relation to the first question, we think that yes, that is, we could have more resources available to actually devote them to what citizens need. And with regard to the second question, indeed, we think that the budget headings could be different and that the priorities that this draft budget contains could be clearly different, in order to actually allocate public resources to what is important. In relation to the first, in relation to what we could do, what we could have done in recent years to have more resources available. That is where all the reforms that we have been demanding over the last few years for Euskadi are inserted and which are still not being carried out. I am talking about tax reform, I am talking about the fight against tax fraud, I am talking about the need to rationalise the Basque institutional framework and I am also talking about the necessary modernisation and reduction of the public corporate sector, in order to allocate public resources to what is really important, that is, to ensure that there is more health, more education, more social spending, more welfare, and less resources for things that are far less important and in many cases unnecessary. As far as tax reform is concerned, this tax reform was agreed two years ago by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, and was somewhat improved in relation to the tax model we had at our disposal. However, we have already said at that time that this tax reform has been insufficient and, therefore, what we continue to demand today is a taxation that can be more progressive and more progressive, more just and that can make more resources available to the Government to allocate them, as I say, to the strengthening of the welfare state. However, that tax reform, those fiscal changes, are still pending today. Also, with regard to the fight against tax fraud, there was a political pact between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party for the establishment of a commission to combat tax fraud, which would be responsible for drawing up a joint plan to combat tax fraud. In our view, there is also a clear margin for improving all mechanisms to combat tax fraud. In this way, in the same way as I said before, in relation to fiscal reform, we could have more resources to devote it to the important, to safeguard the welfare of citizens and especially the well-being of those citizens who continue to suffer today, as a result of the economic crisis and social cuts. Of the social cuts promoted in recent times, both by the Government of Spain and by the Basque Government. This is similar in relation to the institutional framework. We are part of an autonomous community of only two million inhabitants, with four parliaments, four governments, three outlying haciendas, three fiscal policies, a tax coordination body, 251 municipalities, most of them tiny. This framework, is a framework that we consider anachronistic, which does not respond to the real needs of the citizenry. As you all know, this is an approach that has been defending UPyD since 2009, and that is still pending. An oversized institutional framework, which consumes public resources; and when public resources are consumed to sustain institutions that are clearly superfluous, what is actually being done, is to retract public resources that could be devoted to what is really important, to sustaining the welfare state, and not only that, but to investing in productive investments and facilitating the creation of stable, dignified and quality jobs. However, this reform is still pending. Nothing has happened in recent years. We have been defending the reform of the Historic Territories Act for years, but there seems to be no way that a reform of the Historic Territories Act will be definitively adopted. The last proposal, recently tabled by the Socialist Group, is a short-lived initiative in relation to what Euskadi needs, and that, moreover, it is not only short-lived, but it is not even going to be able to move forward over the course of this parliamentary term, due to a lack of time and because some outside parliaments have resorted to it. And it is therefore demonstrated that there is no political will to reform the Historical Territories Act. Although UPyD believes that the time has already passed to reform the Historical Territories Act, and that what should be done is to repeal it, because of course, this measure should be accompanied by others, such as the reform of the Spanish Constitution itself, which would abolish the general boards of the historical territories and the outlaws themselves, with which, of course, no law on historical territories would make any sense. Throughout this time we have defended this idea of reforming the Basque institutional framework, a thousand times repeated by this public servant, and the truth is that it gives the feeling that there is no way this idea can go forward. However, the maintenance of this Basque institutional framework clearly conditions this draft budget. It has conditioned all the above, and gives the feeling that it will condition all futures. Therefore, the non-application of this type of reform what it does is, that we do not spend public money on what is really important. And there is also a pending reform, which is the modernization of the public corporate sector. Some of what we have been talking about for a long time, but I must also say that much more has been said during the previous parliamentary term than during the three years of this term. Another pending reform: modernisation, reduction, resizing the corporate public sector. Dozens, hundreds of public enterprises, entities and foundations that continue to consume public resources, converted practically into placement agencies, so that one party or another, or all of them, put their people there so that they can continue to charge public money for nothing. And this is another of the pending reforms. Therefore, we have the fiscal reform pending to have a fairer and more progressive taxation; we have the fight against tax fraud, which remains clearly limited, because not all the measures that would be necessary are taken; we have the maintenance of this archaic Basque institutional framework, which continues to consume public resources, and we have a clearly oversized public business sector. As long as these reforms are not carried out, obviously we will not be able to have the best project or the best possible budgets that meet the real needs of the people. Therefore, these reforms have not been carried out, there is no willingness to carry out these reforms. If these reforms had been carried out, as I say, the draft budgets would be different. And this is, of course, one of the reasons for having tabled our corresponding amendment to the whole at the time. In addition to all this argument, we, taking into account that current reality, taking into account that taxation, taking into account that fiscal competition resides on the general boards of the historical territories, taking into account that you do not want to change the Basque institutional framework – and in that sense, you are all or most of you deeply conservative representatives – taking into account that you want to maintain as is the corporate public sector, what we do is, through our partial amendments, at least correct in what we can distribute public resources, that is, where we allocate public resources. We have tabled 417 amendments to the General Administration, two to the autonomous bodies and 73 to the public bodies and societies. That is to say, 492 amendments in total. By departments, we propose increases of 95 million in economic development and competitiveness, and 54 million in employment and social policies, so I believe that our commitment to economic recovery and job creation is clear. Also, through these partial amendments – proving, therefore, that there is a budgetary alternative to this draft budget – we propose increases of EUR 95 million in education and EUR 55.6 million in health, which shows our commitment to strengthening essential public services. We also propose increases of more than EUR 11 million for development cooperation, EUR 6.3 million for justice, EUR 6.6 million for security and EUR 9.5 million for the environment. In other words, there was, in fact, an alternative. And if you look at the partial amendments that UPyD has tabled, it is clear that we are committed to strengthening the welfare state. Obviously, to provoke those increases in items that we consider essential, we must reduce from other items, because usually the spokespersons of the Basque Nationalist group usually remind me that you propose a reduction of not know how many millions in the Euskaldunization, or a reduction of 40 million in EITB. Of course, but we're going to do something else. We allocate it to more education, more social assistance, more health, more productive investments, because we think that is important. If you had carried out those pending reforms, we would have more resources available and perhaps not one of those items would have to be reduced. But with the budget we have, it's about telling where we spend our public resources. And we prefer to devote them to social emergency aid, to the welfare state, to health and education, and to so many other things that I think are much more important to the majority of citizens, more if we take into account that we are going through an economic crisis that has caused a lot of Basque citizens to suffer all this time very much. So, finally, these are some of our partial amendments. We propose an increase of almost 3 million euros for free justice; 750,000 euros for the turn of domestic violence. We are proposing, within what would be Economic Development and Competitiveness, as I said, increases of EUR 95 million, for the strengthening of industry, to create stable, decent and quality employment. We propose an increase of EUR 18 million for early childhood and primary education, which we consider to be a clearly relevant matter. We also consider secondary education to be important, and we therefore put forward amendments proposing an increase of EUR 10 million. EUR 20 million for university education, more than EUR 10 million for special education, more than EUR 4 and a half million for education and lifelong learning, more than EUR 3 million for adult education, an increase of more than EUR 5 million for non-university scholarships, an increase of more than EUR 1 million for transport for persons with disabilities, more than EUR 1.5 million for foreign language learning grants. Finally, EUR 1 million Erasmus grants, EUR 1 million academic performance grants, almost EUR 1 million more collaboration grants. Finally, Bono Cultura 660,000, Direction de Patrimonio Cultural 7 million, or research in the UPV more than 2 million euros. We also propose substantial increases in health. We believe that there is clear scope for improving the game for everything that has to do with health. More than EUR 10 million for health care, more than EUR 18 million for primary care, EUR 16 million for hospital facilities, EUR 4 million for psychiatric facilities, EUR 4 million for health transport, EUR 3 million for health research and a long-term commitment to strengthening essential public services and strengthening the welfare state. We also propose an increase of EUR 8 million for social emergency aid, EUR 1 million for tele-assistance, EUR 500 000 for combating energy poverty, EUR 5 million for reconciling family and work life, more money for more public housing for rent, more money also for combating macho violence. And we are proposing the abolition of certain bodies which we consider to be absolutely superfluous and which do not serve to improve people's lives, which, as I say, shows that there was an alternative to this draft budget and I believe that our partial amendments demonstrate this. The Socialist Group, through its amendments and through its political pact with the Basque Nationalist Party, has carried out, let us say, a fraudulent exercise of what should be any kind of budgetary negotiation. In reply to Mr Prieto, I have to say that it is not wrong for us to devote public money to certain municipalities, but to devote only to certain municipalities, in particular to municipalities and to all municipalities that have socialist mayors, and that this is the last requirement to meet or the only condition, the only criterion that decides everything. This is called patronage, this is called amigoism, and this is the kind of amendment that the Socialist Group has agreed with the Basque Nationalist Party. It is certainly curious that you Socialists say that you want to reform the Historical Territories Act in order to guarantee the highest possible equality in the Basque Country or that you claim, at least by mouth, that the Basques must pay similar taxes and receive similar benefits regardless of where we live and, nevertheless, through the facts, act in this way, trying to allocate more public resources to certain citizens for the simple fact that their mayor is a socialist mayor. And this is a huge political fraud. And this must obviously be denounced, as we have denounced in recent years. Friendship and citizen inequality are thus encouraged, with no other objective than to benefit their own and thus achieve a handful of votes. It's certainly unfortunate. Anyway, that is the kind of amendment that the Socialist Group has agreed with the Basque Nationalist Party. That is the most important thing that has been agreed by the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. Instead of having a vision of a country or an autonomous community and trying to allocate the money to all Basque citizens, and especially to the citizens who are going through it worse, instead of increasing more everything that has to do with the welfare state, social emergency aid, the fight against energy poverty, the Socialist Group at the hands of the Basque Nationalist Party what it does is to allocate public money to certain citizens, simply because they live in certain municipalities. And this is deeply unjust and deeply reactionary. Our amendments are different. And I've explained them before and they pick up what we think should be done in Euskadi. Anyway, this is basically what I've been saying over the last few weeks. I'm not going to go any longer. These are the reasons why we are submitting all these partial amendments, the reasons why we are submitting at the time the corresponding amendment to the whole and the reasons why we will be voting against this draft budget. There was an alternative, a much more social alternative, much more sensitive to people's real problems. There was sufficient capacity to spend more money on education, more on health, more on social emergency aid, more on all that is much more relevant to the general public. However, superfluous spending has been maintained. Public money, more than 2 and a half million euros of public money, has been maintained to maintain embassies that we do not need. More than EUR 100 million is earmarked for Euskaldunisation. And more than EUR 100 million to an EITB, which today, basically, is an instrument of the Basque Nationalist Party to benefit its own interests. With all these limbs, it is clear that we cannot support this draft budget. With all these members it is clear that we will vote against this draft budget, a project, of course, as has already been said as active and passive in recent weeks, continuous, deeply conservative, which prefers to leave everything basically as it is, so that nothing fundamental changes and turns its back on the real needs of the people. That is why we obviously maintain our amendments and will vote against this draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u2	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The Basque Group is represented by the Popula. Please, I beg you to be silent.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that we could defend the amendments, we were done before, and I suppose everyone would thank me more, because this is the conclusion of the PNV-PSOE pact in this process, in this process and in the previous one, in that of the committee where we saw the amendments. We have tabled more than 580 amendments to this budget, of which not only was none approved, but also there was no attempt to approve none. Which, of course, responds to the pact that was signed, sorry, that was not signed, because we don't know it anyone, but obviously it's a political pact, it's not budget, it's exclusionary, it's sectarian, for the items we've seen, and in the end it's an exchange of votes PNV-PSOE, PSOE-PNV, in other institutions. And this is the procedure in which we are here today. We were told, not last week, but a little more than 15 days ago, by the representative of the Socialist Party, who felt that it was appropriate for citizens to have tools for employment, to improve the amounts for public health and education, for research and innovation, which guarantee rights. And we have to say that we agreed with what they were proposing. What is happening is that we have not seen this reflection either in the budget that came from the government or in the amendments that the Socialist Party has put forward and, of course, that have all been approved by the Basque Nationalist Party. As a concept, it's very good. And then, man, what was even more graceful was when he was telling the other groups, the socialist spokesman, in short, that the others had time, in the remaining procedure, to try to convince the government that what the socialists had failed to achieve, we could get the others. And I say that it is graceful for the Socialist Party to tell us that in the whole debate, when its pact and agreement was precisely that no amendment from any group was accepted. With this I just want to tell you that, in the end, it looks very good on the paper, but in the end, as we are all older here and we all know and we have seen what the pact has been about, because at least they don't give us the other lessons of how the socialists have achieved great – things I don't see – and the others don't know. No, there is a sectarian pact here, as I said at the beginning, which consists of that, in which absolutely no amendments are adopted or negotiated. And for that you have already taken care of emptying the item of global credit, because among your amendments I have not seen any that corrected any item downwards, none, nor a single item downwards of the entire budget presented by the Basque Government, by the Basque Nationalist Party, nor one, and they were all against global credit. So, finally, lessons, I don't think they need to give. And the Basque Nationalist Party, when we said that this budget consolidated the cuts of all kinds that we have had for years, the Basque Nationalist Party told us about article 133 of the Spanish Constitution. And it is that Article 133 of the Spanish Constitution merely reflects the European principle of stability; and I, as a starting point from the basis that the Basque Nationalist Party agrees with Europe, agrees with the euro, agrees with the principles and, in addition, in the end, you and we have reached agreements on this matter at the moment, because I do not understand why the excuse is always another. No, listen, let's see, every government to meet the deficit targets adjusts the budget where it's interested. Each government is free to adjust the budget where it is concerned. There are some governments that cut in their day 5% of the salary of officials, it is a decision of the governments. Neither Europe nor article 133 of the Constitution state that the salaries of civil servants must be cut. Neither Europe nor 133 say that there is a 7% reduction in GIR. No, that's a political decision of the governments. So, as an excuse that the guilt here of things always has others... Don't listen, the Basque Nationalist Party from time to time should take responsibility for its actions and not seek enemies outside. Article 133 says that debts are paid, but we already knew that. And when someone has gone around saying they're not going to pay the debt, like a Greek lord, because they said, "Well, you'll see. You'll see." That's what Article 133 says, that debts are paid, but we already knew that, it didn't need to be in the Constitution. It was put there at the initiative of its partners to ensure more and better to the creditors who would be able to collect. Yeah, they were gonna be able to collect. And the Basque Nationalist Party was telling us that it's thanks to the pact that they signed with the socialists three years ago and thanks to those... I remember perfectly well what that pact was about. And I remember perfectly well how it was going to be financed in more than 3 billion euros in this legislature that were going to appear... Yes, you do, yes. They were going to appear for tax reform but above all for the fight against tax fraud. And more than three plans brought this government, which would be financed with the greatest collection of the fight against tax fraud. And in the end the fight against tax fraud gives itself what it gives of itself, which is what it already gave of itself, isn't it? Because you and we all knew that, in the end, it is not new that the outside parliaments are fighting tax fraud and that, therefore, those billions of euros that were going to come, because as we all knew, have not come. And in the end we have a budget that is increased by 300 million compared to last year, and simply because the economy has grown. And simply because basically VAT and VAT collection has grown. And where those 300 million go, which is what we were saying, so they go to what they're going to do, to pay the debt, as it couldn't be otherwise, to pay the officials, as it couldn't be otherwise. And what was left? Nothing. And what did we put in front of this government the other day? We did not see anywhere any new, new measures, or any increase in the number of items that would encourage job creation. And when we talked about the R+D+i game, and the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party was saying, "No, but you haven't noticed..." Yes, we did see that in section 99 there was another game for that. Sure, but why wasn't that game in the innovation fund, if it was for the innovation fund? Why wasn't it included there? 'Cause then it's the ones you know, as the Economics Advisor said, those that don't work, right? "That was the word he used." Of course, that's why it's not included in the bottom and it's separated. And what we were saying in any case is that we, with our amendments, were increasing that fund by another 10 million. Why? And so we told him everything and we're not even getting to the amounts we had four years ago. And then the Nationalist Party said it's that elsewhere they're worse. Listen, worse for them, worse for them. We look at the Basques and what we are interested in for the Basques, and what we want for the Basques, and we compare ourselves, as I said the other day, and that is why we proposed the increase of that game. That we all agree? Because I'm starting from the bottom line that we all agree. I hear the Socialist Party and, of course, the priority of investing in R+D+i, I hear the Basque Nationalist Party, of course, the priority of investing in R+D+i. Even Bildu's talk about priority. And, hey, then it turns out that it's not reasonable to increase the R+D+i game here. And this seems to be contrary to what we all think is good for the Basques and for the future employment of the Basques. The Budget continues to consolidate bodies and societies that we have already said, and for years we have been putting forward some that remain, and others that need to be changed whole, such as Elika, Ihobe, Neiker, (...) and others, and we have made amendments to avoid that social cut-off that takes place in these Budgets. Why? Because what you can't do is fool people by saying that this PNV-Socialist Party pact, what you do is avoid social cuts. No, it strengthens them. It strengthens them. And I think that to the citizens, to the Basques, there is no reason to deceive them, you have to tell them things as they are, "No, listen, it's because we have less money, because we're going to cut here." What you can't say is that they force us to cut in other places. No, no, it doesn't force you to cut anyone. No one forces the Basque Government not to return the extra, no one forces it, the Basque Government, the Basque Nationalist Party, with the Socialist Party's votes, decides that the extra pay will not be returned. No one obliges the Basque Government to ensure that the contributions made to the funds of the officials are not made. Moreover, I remember perfectly how the Basque Nationalist Party in Madrid presented the amendment so that it could be made, and we approved it to the Basque Nationalist Party in the Congress of Deputies with an absolute majority. Listen, we found it reasonable, indeed, indeed, that Governments could make contributions to staff funds. But then we get here and the Basque government goes and doesn't do it, and it tells us, "The fault is 131 of the Constitution." No; it is a decision of the PNV and the Socialist Party not to do it, to cut there, and that must be said and explained. As it is a decision of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party to cut 7% of GIR, or to cut 7% of support for families with children, or to cut 7% of support for family and work reconciliation. But that is a political decision that comes in this Budget for 2016. And therefore, we, as we disagree on that, I suppose no one agreed on that, or anyone would have liked to do that, but the fact is that it is done, the fact is that it arises and is proposed to us by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party. The same could be said of aid for development cooperation. But perhaps what is most regrettable about all this, and I have already said this the other day, is that in this Parliament we spend months after month, seeing initiatives by supposed opposition groups, which tell us that we have to spend more money on social emergency aid, that we have to spend more money on it, that we have to spend more money on it... And when it comes time to allocate the money, it turns out that we see that neither in the government budget nor in the amendments adopted by the Socialist Party. Then, of course, when next month we see again the same proposals of the same saying, "We have to spend more money", but at the time of truth they refuse to do so. And in this case it is not by not convincing the government, in this case it is because the priorities of the Socialist Party are other. And they are others as pitiful as some of those we have already talked about at the time. I mean, listen, earmarking 1,000 euros to a choir, or 5,000 to a football club, another 5,000 to a hockey club, right? Or a bowling club. That's right, everyone from the same town, or a bike club, or the petanque club, 1,000 euros. This is the Socialist Party's priority in these budgets. And don't tell us that social emergency aid, because the amount they're targeting is ridiculous. They know it doesn't come at all at all, at all. Therefore, I am not going to extend much longer, because it does not make much sense, because it is obvious that we are not going to convince anyone, and even if they were convinced, as the pact is to approve absolutely nothing, because they are not going to approve anything. But we do want to say a couple more things. We are tired and we have for many years, not this Government, this Government and all the previous governments, of having half of the text, the first half of the text, devoted itself to amending the General Budget Act, and devoted itself to amending it so that the Government would be more free to, say, manipulate the implementation of the Budget. And another thing, I think it's time that if the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party agree on that, they propose a reform of the General Budget Law. Of course, but we don't have a law that says we have to have a lot of rigour in spending, and then the budget comes in and changes are made on time every year and we have been changing the same things on time for over 20 years. That on the one hand. And of course, we are presenting as amendments and as an alternative text, yes, that the extra should be returned to the officials. Listen, because everyone seems to agree that no cuts should be made, because we are going to abolish the 7% cut in ESAs, conciliation aid, and families without children. And since we all agree, we are going to extend the scope of social emergency aid. If this is a concern that is so much of concern to all groups in this Parliament, then let us do so. Today is the time, today is the process to do it. It is not in GNP throughout the year. It's today, here, and now. Today, here and now. And therefore, as we said the other day, in addition to being a budget without margin, because the government does not take any measures to have more margin, as we said, does not bring anything new, not even euros for the promotion of employment, consolidates the social cuts, and in the end, the improvement of the employment that we have comes from Madrid. I mean, we grow economically here, we create jobs here, when in Spain we grow economically and we create jobs. And when in Spain there is a decrease and an increase in unemployment, because here we decrease and an increase in unemployment. And so, an autonomous government, in short, with much room for manoeuvre, more room for manoeuvre than any autonomous government, neither federal nor confederal of the world – because this is the one that has the most room for manoeuvre in income and expenditure – could take some measure to help that. And we still don't see it. And as above, the Socialist Party's amendments, as we said, what they do is make the budget that has been presented to us even worse, because 20 million that were in the global credit for investment are devoted to current expenditure, and when they are devoted to current expenditure I am referring to current expenditure as that which I have quoted, such as that of bowling, petanque and these things of certain people, which apparently many people are dedicated to that in that people and no other people. It is clear that we are going to vote against the budget.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u4	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists... [[Berber]] - No, no, no, [[They spoke without a microphono.]] - No, no, no, Mrs. Pindo, representing EH Collector, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u5	Good morning, everyone. We're here once more to discuss the budget. And once again, these are budgets that do not respond to the needs of the euscal society. We said that the original project was short and we have to say it again today. Because the agreement with PSE has essentially changed nothing. PSE has put the spoon in it, but only to feed some of his people. We refuse these budgets for a simple reason: because they do not serve to satisfy the necessities of the community, because they do not guarantee the financial and social rights of the people. We know that some of you will tell us that they are the most social previsions, that they are the most social, and from thence you will place comparisons on the table to explain that we are better than Spain, in infinite self-consciousness. But in the street at once you will see that the situation is really bad, that unemployment remains terrible, that social rupture increases and the decay of public services is unstoppable. The Basques are so far from your autoconclacy. The last DeustoBarometers also show us: 87% says the crisis has not ended and 88% believes that social differences have increased because of the crisis. The budgets must serve to correct all this by theory, but once more EAJ and PSE turn their backs on society. These budgets do not aim at the welfare of society. If that's the point, you'd already start giving me steps to reform the tax policy, you'd finally leave the policy of competition, and you'd have guaranteed money shares in jobs, social services, education, health, etc., for a long time to make sure of the minimum. Unfortunately, it won't happen that way. That's why we have to tell you that with these priorities, you are far from satisfying the needs of the Basques once more. Today you will approve budgets that turn their backs on the needs of Basque society. Budgets that follow the wrong path marked by the Basque Government at the beginning of this legislature. A legislature that is on its way to ending, according to data from the Government itself, with 31,000 more people at risk of serious poverty, 66,000 more people at risk of relative poverty. In total, in Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa there are more than 435,000 people living at risk of poverty, but for them these Budgets will unfortunately have no real solution. And about unemployment, what to say. More than 150,000 unemployed people who demonstrate the failure of this Basque Government's employment policies. And what is even worse, when a union – ELA in this case – presents a popular legislative initiative to guarantee decent working conditions in the recruitments that the Basque Government itself makes, you, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and the PSE, say that no, that you do not agree, that you prefer to continue as until now, that you prefer that people are in the work at 5 euros an hour. Workers exploited to keep large companies accumulating profits. Ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and the PSE, they talk about employment and you respond with labour reform. You join the People's Party. And all this doesn't happen because it's just the way things are. There's a choice here, a choice, you guys made a choice. You've decided to do the budget with the old-fashioned recipes on the axis, and you've decided to waste another year. We all know that the situation is not easy. The people also know very well that they suffer the consequences of this condition every day. But, alas, the immobilism of this government, the boldness of this government, the choice which the Government has made, will not help this state to return. I say "caught," yes, because it's done. You wanted to make us believe that there is only one way to face things and develop them, as if there were no other way. You wanted to see economics and read the economy. "There's no more." 'We'd like to have more money too,' 'these are rules to be kept,' and we've heard these phrases over and over here on the legislature. Crying tears, crying tears of those who cling to an expired gambling framework, who refuse to change fiscal policy, waiting for results that do not arrive, ladies and gentlemen. While in society there is a desire to take steps to ensure that taxation is truly fair and guarantees the necessary economic resources for quality public services. The Basque Sociometer shows how 62% of the population sees it preferable to pay more taxes to have better services and benefits, and the Deustobarometer completes this photograph, reflecting the very bad image that people of the great Basque companies have with percentages that should blush Confebask, and you too. However, you, ladies and gentlemen of the PNV and the PSE, remain committed to maintaining a tax model that only favours large companies, that only favours large fortunes and that, therefore, does not serve to raise the money that is needed, the money that is needed, that we need to guarantee employment, that we need to guarantee quality social, educational and health care for all citizens. We've arranged other ways and measures from regrouping EH to correct this situation over and over on the table. But this government, and the sects that support it, have already done this: applying the recipes which have already been proved in vain to solve the crisis and its terrible consequences. You keep standing there and making the policy for the eternal privileged ones. You're going to have to go through the odds and then you've put back on the ground. You have given the whole preference to the deficit and to the public debt, and the need to secure the welfare of the people, but you have again abandoned it. Yours is a failure recipe because it aggravates the consequences of the crisis to people who are wrong. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is austerity policies that are at the heart of these Budgets, old recipes, repetitive recipes that have already proved ineffective in combating the crisis and its pernicious effects on people. Because, look where you look, the axis of these Budgets are not people and their well-being, no, no, no matter how much they insist. These budgets, like the Government itself, are limited to complying with the dossier, nothing more. These Budgets are square, these Budgets pay the debt, these Budgets meet the limits imposed from Madrid without asking, without agreements. And it's not that I say it, it's not that Euskal Herria Bildu says it, as the Ministry of State Finance itself says in its report of the General Secretariat for Autonomic and Local Coordination. And I read: "The Council of Ministers of July 10th set the fiscal stability and public debt targets for the three-year period 2016-2018 for all autonomous communities in 0.3 of regional GDP. At the date of this report, considering the speciality of the external regime in the area of budgetary stability, the previous agreement between the Autonomous Community and the General Administration of the State is pending the approval by agreement of the Council of Ministers of the individual objectives of stability and debt for the period 2016-2018". I repeat, "before signing the previous agreement between the Autonomous Community and the General Administration of the State". But, apparently, this government is going to agree on what the Council of Ministers already approved on 10 July. And they'll get a deal, of course, because that's easy to agree on. Always doing what he says in front of you is very easy to remember. The government of Urcullu, which has not been admitted to the government of the State, faithfully fulfils the government of the Common-wealth, and here neglects what is agreed upon in the legislature. But that's what Rajoy promised to do. And the worst of all is that you admit yourself that it's not a solution. You, PNV and PSE said that us are bankrupt. You've repeated all the time in the election campaign that ended on Sunday. Listen to what you said these days. Aitor Esteban, Basque Nationalist Party: "It is true that we have to control the deficit, but nothing happens because instead of three years it is done in eight or ten. Austerity has not worked, it is a recipe of the past." Pedro Sánchez, Socialist Party: "It will not be possible to meet the deficit target of EUR 10 billion. I will tell Brussels that with this inheritance – again the inheritance – it is impossible to meet the deficit objective. To meet the deficit without raising taxes it will be necessary to cut the welfare state." This is what you said. But after that, after we've told you that our adage has failed, the Sessions you bring us here today are on the ground, that's all there is to it. What's going on? Why don't you apply what you're told in the campaign? If Austerity isn't worth it, why do you apply it to them in public? Why do you tell people it's a failure if you do the same here? Or you've been lying or you're innocent. And actually, I don't know what's worse. You have made the government of the Urcullu, and the sects that support it, in favour of the austerity which aggravated the consequences of the crisis. The political choice is that they have no more income, because you refuse to a real form of taxation, the political choice is to submit to Madrid and to pay his debt for its chief purpose, and to complete the deficit line; political choice is to place the negotiations about budgets in the parameters of the dirty climatism, and not to fill up the social and economic needs of the majority of society, which is political enough to prevent the attention of Europe from reducing the people to the restrictions, but also to prevent the subjugation of the investments. Has anyone read the latest report of Europe at high speed about the investments made by Spain? Apparently not. It's really embarrassing to meet 71% of the entire investment in these budgets that Europe has said it won't be profitable to a substructure. Because Europe has said that the high-speed lines in Spain have been made without examination and that they are now defensively economically and socially. And do you know which of the deficitants will be? Well, it's "Euskal Y." That's the political choice you've made. And it's allowed, but don't think we'll come and applaud us after that. On the contrary, you will have us face to face, because you have abandoned the necessities of society with your priorities to penetrate further into the course of reductions. Collecting the Basque Country has proposed other budgets, lights and possible purposes to promote social cohesion, to avoid social rupture, to ensure public services, and to place columns for a balanced economic development. That and nothing else is the compass of our political activity. That's why we made a suggestion, at least a few of them, to guarantee it. We didn't really ask too much to comply with the agreement obtained by this legislature, and to suspend the restrictions, to ensure the welfare of the people at least. I don't really think it's too much to demand, especially when so many people are having such a bad time. Our proposal was reasonable, but you have refused, well, not us, you have given up to the public, to everyone who is suffering the outcome of the crisis. We have exhausted the means to achieve budgets for people, to guarantee social rights for all, so that the ESAs do not end again in the middle of the year and there is no one else who listens to the "come back tomorrow", to eliminate once and for all the 7 % reduction in social aid that the government has been applying since 2012, which is nothing more than a subterfuge to cut social rights, to develop real reconciliation policies, for equality and without the budget ending in the middle of the year, to strengthen the health system, to end rest and improve waiting lists, to make a clear bet on education for a country with a future. They are propositions which aim at the welfare of society, and which are directed to the present and to the future. To answer the consequences of the crisis, to build solid foundations that will be essential to the euscal society for the next few years. And I have to remind you that many of these proposals are not just the Basque Country, they are the agreements of this parliament, but the orders given by that Congress to you. Because for Euskal Herria Bildu what we agreed in this Parliament to respond to social claims, to respond to the rights of all, are commitments made to citizens and as such, as commitments, we bring them to the budgetary debate. And that is why we are addressing the PSE at the time, as a signatory of these agreements, for the 2016 Budgets to respond to what has been agreed, to respond to citizens. But if something has become clear to us, meridically clear, it is that the PSE has amended itself. The PSE has set aside agreements on social aid, on conciliation, on improving the conditions of public employees, on health, housing or economic development in this country. And he has opted for superficial makeup on all these issues and for distribution, such as Olentzero, a few million among governing municipalities, related foundations and various associations. The data is clear. As for the ESAs this year, there has not been enough money to cover all the needs and municipalities once again have had to look for life to meet the citizenry. And it's not that Euskal Herria Bildu says it, Eudel says it, Santano says it, the PSE says it. And I quote, "The Basque Government must assume 100% of the expenditure". He adds: "The game assigned by the Basque Government is short every year." More than the same for 2016, Mr Santano, because with these Budgets you will also not be able to meet all the needs. Y lo mismi lamente ocura con las ayudas a la conciliación. El Deproporo del desproposito. Like last year, I stopped paying those scholarships this year. Although last year the law student asked him to guarantee the financial situation he needed, we asked him out of here. But obviously, EAJ and PSE have ignored it and the same thing will happen in 2016. Because in this section, they've agreed to almost the same amount of money. So cut it short once more. As it belongs to the society police, yesterday we saw another example. The pensioner brought with him the legislative of the people to secure worthy pensions. Every decent pension to collect at least $180 euros. And you, who have decided not to admit it, have decided not to transfer it, because the political frame of our time is not giving us that opportunity to guarantee worthy pensions. Those of us here in this Parliament, we are to guarantee decent living conditions to all the citizens of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa and the budgets we must use for that and not for other things. Therefore, in Euskal Herria Bildu we think that the question to be asked is what Basque society needs, and then act accordingly, without subjecting ourselves to anything other than our own limitations as a society. But you, instead, first of all, wonder what you let us do in Madrid. Even when they know in advance that the answer is light years away from what this country needs. That is why you refuse, for example, to process an ILP that proposes to raise pensions, or to convene an education OPE that does not cover needs, or as we are talking here today, to apply austerity criteria in the Budgets that prevent balanced social and economic development. By paraphrasing the lehendakari Ibarretxe I will say that "self-governing currency, which does not let us even decide which pensions to pay to our pensioners". We see, therefore, that this frame does not satisfy our wants as citizens, and that we need another frame, independent, first. Our pensions, our conditions of work, our education and our health system, for once to be organized according to our wants and powers. And in conclusion, the theme of "facking" also has its own indentation. In fact, the answer Mrs. Tapia had given him was revealed to the threat of "franking" that it was there. That he keeps up his will to "franking" and that PSE's was only hypocrisy. It doesn't mean anything to remove two paragraphs from my memory, because it keeps every way open to make "franking." Mrs Mendia, so much to presume that the PSE had ended the fracking, so that Mrs Tapia would come and amend the plan. Euskal Herria Bildu denounced it from the beginning, but it is the government itself that has ended up leaving its game open. Say whatever you want, but hear how Mrs Tapia has answered my colleague Dani Maeztu's questions. A clear and direct question: Does the deletion of the paragraphs in the budget memorandum imply that the SHESA company waives the Angosto-1 and Enara research permits?" And the counselor's answer, no less clear and concrete: "No." Thank you for Mrs Tapia's clarity. Because water is clearer, socialist gentlemen. Neither the PNV nor the Basque Government give up fracking. Nor do they give up the law passed by this Parliament. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the PSE accept it, give it for good, and today you will support it with your votes. I repeat. The threat of fracking is not called Angosto-1, it is not called Enara, the threat of fracking is called SHESA. As long as this public society is maintained, the fracking is maintained. It is the colophon for budgets that do not serve to meet the needs of this country. And that's a pity you've agreed to EAJ and PSE. Mugging to ensure the wants of the people, the fundamental and fundamental areas of society, to improve the conditions of work, and to strengthen the growth of our people. We shall, therefore, end the law as it began, with the politics of the aussterity, reductions, and, unfortunately, with the dirty climatism.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Gorospe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. President. Chiefs of Investigation. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Maneiro, you're the one who started telling me you'd repeat it, and it was like this: you have repeated the same discourse you make. Therefore, since we have given our arguments over and over, we turn you to other arguments of other disputes, to the Tracscripts. We're not going to repeat the arguments again. But as a principal idea, that the projects which your party represents or represents are entirely distinct, and that we have no such circle as our party does, except in some of the most trifling matters. You say, "que exiterative alternativa Politica, Gobierno Vasco," but that's in the hands of the people, who choose what side they want in the leadership of the institutions of that people, and they don't give it to you, they've just given it to the Jeltistual Party for the moment. The existing Government, the alternative, the existing Government, the president we have, is chosen by the citizens. Jarraitu duzu esanez, behin eta berriro, guk esaten dugula hobeto gaudela, eta esan duzu, that "Being better is an argument that the Basque Nationalist Party repeatedly uses to attack the opposition". I would like to say that it is not at all an argument whose will is to attack the opposition, our will is to defend and argue the budget and the strategic lines of action that are being supported by that budget. We do so in the spirit of defending, in no case attacking. The attack is yours, ours is the defense of what we believe is best for this country. We do not consider that it is to fall into self-congratulation – in this argument you have agreed with the representative of EH Bildu – that to make a comparative analysis of the environment and to make a comparative analysis with other countries of Europe, in those areas of intervention of the Basque Government, to fall into self-congratulation or to think that is the will. It is an exercise that is done in many places, in many companies it is done, and also in the public sphere it must be done, "benchmarking", to compare with the whole environment, see who is better, how we are positioned and in this way be able to review, renew and improve what is being done continuously. A project and a bet of continuous improvement of our intervention. Now the indicators are objective, we use quantitative indicators for that analysis, and from the reading of those quantitative indicators the conclusion that is drawn, as you also share with us, is that, in fact, we are well positioned, but at all the will is to fall into self complacency. You kept saying that a lot of people in Basques are still having a bad time. And that's how it is, but you've got to keep it clear, you have to understand that those people are the priority of this fun. The New Year's Introduce, and that's where it comes from, that's his motto, that's what he's chosen for the law-making, "persons' goals," the person on the axis, and those who have the greatest wants of the government. Those who aren't idle, are in critical financial circumstances. Horregatik, horregatik Aurrekontu guztiaren % 75 hezkuntzara eta osasun unibertsalera eta gizarte-babes sozialera posetzen dira. Helburua hori delako. Because the greatest concern, Mr Maneiro, of this Basque Government is people. And, among people, those who are most difficult and those who are in the worst situation, those who have no work, those who are experiencing serious economic situations. This is why the project presented is clearly social, allocating 75% to social expenditure. Have no doubt: the priority concern. Following with Mr. Dambo'sena, you said we're in front of a budget agreement and that we're not gonna file any other corrections with the other parties. And so it is. The first thing that we thought was the best thing that could be introduced to the Jest Party of EU. Knowing that we have not sufficient majority in this Chamber, we have entered a political negotiation. And in this political negotiations with the Socialist Party, we've made an agreement to go forward to the Pregence, a series of other games that we believe will improve in a number of other games. It's driving mudatua from. Dirua mugatua da. Denetarako dago, bathe ez dago gehiago. There is for everything; for all the policies that we believe should be addressed: health, education, social policy, economic recovery, employment generation, investment... There's for everything, but there's no more. And, therefore, the possibilities of being able to accept amendments that other parties have been able to table do not exist. We've improved. A good project, a good project with a clear social vocation, has been presented and improved with the agreement adopted with the Socialist Party in certain respects. An improvement has been made, for example, in aspects such as the provision of an additional EUR 1.2 million to support family reconciliation; an increase of EUR 1 million to support the expansion of ESAs. To the extension for the departure of the contract relief, 1 million more. For Euskaltzaindia, 50,000 euros more. For a programme of employment and training of long-term unemployed, €500,000 more. For the UNED, for the University of the Basque Country, for the University of Mondragon, for an increase of scholarships of training of researchers, for multilingual projects... For equipment from Osakidetza, 1 million. For the treatment of hepatitis, 2 million. For cancer treatments, 2 million. For local employment plans, 1 million more. For technology in Elkartek, 1 million more. For equipment of training cycles of centers, 0.5 million more. For aid for education, in the economic management of public schools, 1 million more. For giving him some examples. It's driving mudatua from. Money's limited. There are budgetary restrictions, as you well know, and that has been the framework of agreement we have had. There is no sectarian pact, Mr Damborenea, there is a plural pact. There is a pact and an agreement, yes, there is a plural pact, of two political formations representing a broad social majority of this country. You meant that the Basque Nationalist Party and we are continually referring to article 135 of the Constitution to blame. We don't blame anyone. Neither we, as a parliamentary group, nor the Basque Nationalist Party, nor the Basque Government, blame anyone. He assumes responsibility for his task, he has assumed responsibility with all the consequences. What it does do is to set out the legal framework in which we develop ourselves in budgetary matters and what limitations we have in order to deal with and make some decisions or others and, of course, in budgetary matters there are two fundamental references, and both have been adopted by the People's Party: Article 135 of the Constitution, which enshrines the need to meet the deficit objective and prioritize debt payment and, two, the Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act. And it's not to blame anyone. It is to set out the legal framework that is in place in budgetary matters, and we are in compliance with it. It's not an excuse at all. An excuse would be anything that was deviable and this is not deviable. He referred to R+D+i and asked why it is in section 99. It said there is a small amount, man, small amount to 13.7 million euros, it seems to me that it is a considerable amount and that the effort of the Basque Government is considerable. And why is he here? Because it is cross-cutting and because it affects different departments, such as Education, such as Economic Development and it is considered to be a better location for that departure. It has also referred to extra pay, and the arguments have been put forward in other debates. Today it is going to be the debate to repeat arguments, because obviously in different debates we have been exposing them, but it is important to note that of 113 million, this government is going to allocate 60 million to salaries, to improve the wages of public employees, and that it is also committed to paying the rest of the outstanding 2012 extra pay without jeopardizing its budgetary stability and financial sustainability. 60 million of 113 million for salary. Cooperation, about 8% increase, 3,200,000. Employment, 275 million, 8% increase. Indeed, Mr Damborenea, you have to defend the political position of your parliamentary group, it is up to you to do that exercise, but how would I like to know what you think about it in your internal affairs. EH Bildurekin jarraituko had to. Well, hasteko esan duzu "that there is no agreement to meet the deficit, that there is no agreement to meet the deficit." There is an agreement, and I give you the date, of 23 December 2014, the only actual existing agreement signed is that with that date it was signed between the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and the State, by which the deficit and debt targets are set for the triennium 2015 and 2017. And for the financial year 2016, not only the deficit target was set at 0,3 but also the debt ceiling was set at 14,1 %. And also the deficit target for 2017, which was set at 0,1 %. He said that how can Aitor Esteban say, we have said in campaign, that instead of three years he can relax on the path of fiscal consolidation and instead of three years, it is six years... Well, we do, because we think so. We will respect what is, we will fulfill what is established. But, in fact, we think that it should be more flexible, that the autonomous communities should have more capacity to adapt the deficit and debt target to our real situation, because it is obviously not comparable. Ezin da, Pinedo andrea, ezin da konparatu Euskadiren egoera, % 14aren zorpetzearekin Barne Produktu Gordaren sheurean, edo Castilla-La Mancha, Murcia, Katalunia edo Valentziarekin. Ezin yes. And this is what we proclaim by the way of the party, and what we say. It shouldn't be like that. There ought to be more delicacy, each community ought to have more capacity to adapt to its proper condition, because some communities have a debt of 20 points more than we do. And the situation isn't the same. But what is done is fulfilled. But we have to say it all the time, because I don't know how you're taking the liberty of coming here because we haven't written this. We didn't write this. "Financial and budgetary responsibility require continuing the path set out in the objective of keeping public accounts under control." Pinedo anderea, begiratu, zure aurpegiak diost, zure lengoai korporalak diost esaten duzula, "These are already referring to what we have done in Gipuzkoa". Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, Kontau bizi bath honetan gure motxila daroagula villagen. Klaro, bidean ezin from the motxila uzi. In this life one is responsible for all his actions and accompany him throughout his life. What you cannot think is that you are going to write this in Gipuzkoa, "Financial and budgetary responsibility", which do not appeal to the obligation that Spain and Europe impose on us, no; they appeal to "Financial and budgetary responsibility demand to continue the path marked with the aim of keeping public accounts under control". And what about the extendable credits? What were they saying? Of the extendable credits, you who here think that all aid should be extendable credits, because money and the public fund should be an inexhaustible source of resources. You said: "The crisis situation is inexorably leading to a progression in social spending that is difficult to calculate at the time of submission of the Budgets." As for everyone who manages, in fact, "the crisis situation inexorably carries with it a progression of social spending that is difficult to calculate at the time of the presentation of Budgets", as the Basque Government finds difficult. And they say, "That's why some aspects have been described as expandable expenses," as we are incorporating. And it was you, the Gipuzkoa Diputation, the first to adopt an out-of-court rule to discipline all municipalities in the historic territory of Gipuzkoa in compliance with the Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act. Firm, firm, you walked. And appealing to financial and budgetary responsibility. That's the truth. And now why don't you come here and announce something else? That's why you lose your credibility because of what you're saying you're going to do! And besides, you have no shame, and add a short face and a short forehead that we others have done when we get out of it. You said we were talking about data from other places. I told you why, we do it for improvement. I tell you, as it is done in private, it must be done in public in the same manner. We must consider what one does, we must consider what is done about us, and, according to this, adapt what is proposed and improved and advanced in the Euskakia. That's how we'll do it. "Se sigue la curia empredida." Mire, Mrs. Pinedo, you know very well, luckily, and I shall say this with a great deal of practice, that the constancy of losing employment has changed. A year ago, 168.7829 people were registered in the profession, less than 10 percent today. It's not enough. It's not good enough the quality of a job that's created, but it's just a few steps ahead. And we shouldn't underestimate them, and they're not natural. There are 900,000 people registered in Social Security. And I think that's all because the economic situation is going to improve and the sizes taken from fun. Things in this life are not natural, and we begin to see little by little the effects of their measures. "Crying cries." He reminded me of a phrase that Councillor Darpón – just the opposite, of course – said in the Committee on Finance and Budgets, when he was defending his Department's budget. Darpon said, you said, "It's not up to us to cry, the lehendakari hasn't called me to cry." No counselor here has cried. And if he has wept, he will have wept in his house, because the situation in which they committed themselves to this country was very complex, from which fortunately we are leaving, and everyone and everyone has made it clear that it is not up to them to weep, it is up to them to fight, it is up to them to get Euskadi out of the way, and for that we have the resources that we have and with courage have continued to work and with commitment and responsibility. Don't talk to me about crying, because honestly, honestly I tell you, I've never heard a counselor cry, I've only heard them fight and words of force. I think, and when we discussed the general corrections of the whole Egibar, he told you that the President of the United States has a great deal of trouble to understand and to hear what the people profess. "The people in this country, and the institutions of the saddle, and the commerce of the people, such a nation as this," said Egmont. And that it is undeniable that in this country, thanks to the labor of the people and the institutions of the people, and that, thanks to all the sects which have been in the institutions, there is a certain peculiar union, and that the people understand that the condition we live in is bad, and that in this respect they are to take some measures taken forward and understood. But you have an enormous difficulty in understanding it, and you ought to take a few steps forward. To conclude, the President, as well as in the day of Deliberation in Deliberation, will finish our speech in the speech which was made to present the preparation of Christmas Prejugation from our parliament. He's the one who asked us to trust all the teams. "Pido su confianza," nos decía el president, "Pid su confianza para afiantzara la stability de nustro país, para crear appulo de calido, para seguir creciendo y afrontar eyotías el futuro de paes." The government will comply with the agreement. This was the commitment which the President made to all of you in this parliament, and he said clearly: "We will bring him forward among all of us, and we will bring him forward. People ask for it. This is what all the teams require together." And we believe that what the President has said is perfectly true and that the people are asking us to do, that we are all able to go forward in the company of the Basques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the answering shift, Misto-UPyD, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u9	Yes, thank you, President. Mrs. Gorospe, there's always an alternative to a government. It is a matter of arguing what that alternative is and transferring sufficient credibility to explain to the citizenry, and to Parliament in this case, that the proposed alternative is indeed reasonable and can be carried out. And I believe that we have shown that this alternative can be achieved, if we see what partial amendments we have tabled. I do not mean that there is a political alternative in this Parliament to your Government, which has the support of the Basque Nationalist Party. Indeed, that does not exist. You have the majority to approve this draft budget, but I was not talking about parties but about ideas. And what I wanted to demonstrate with our amendment as a whole, and in this case with the partial amendments, is that clearly different budgets could have been set up, which would actually meet the needs of the citizens. Recognizing, as I have done in the first place, that this Autonomous Community is in fact better in general than the rest of the Spanish Autonomous Communities. After all, we already know the general situation of the country and, finally, the economic crisis that its citizens are still suffering. Comparing ourselves with the environment is well and surely necessary, even indispensable, but I ask you to make an effort to compare it, in short, with those regions that are better than Euskadi. In other words, it does not compare with those autonomous communities which are much worse, but rather compares with other European regions which are even better off. Furthermore, I ask you not to forget the economic situation that many Basque citizens continue to suffer. We still have 14% unemployment, which is an extraordinarily high figure compared to other European countries, and we live in a region where there are still 150,000 unemployed. And so those are the problems that need to be solved. Therefore, in the end, we do not move the idea that everything is going well, because this is not really the case: 150,000 unemployed, thousands of people who have suffered a lot all these years, thousands of people who have suffered poverty, energy poverty, thousands of people who are unemployed, or who are in a situation of, say, precarious, temporary and poorly paid employment. And it is certainly possible that these people, unlike the councillors of the Basque Government, do weep every day for the situation in which they find themselves. And so let's do everything we can to care for those people. And I believe that I, humbly, have shown that different budgets could have been set up and that doing things differently could have been spent on strengthening the welfare state, more money for education, for health, for social spending, for social emergency aid, for aid for family and work reconciliation, for scholarships, for English, for improving educational facilities, for improving hospital and educational facilities, for productive investments, for strengthening R & D+i, for providing better public services, for increasing what is meant for culture, for improving employment, for protecting the environment more and better, for fighting with more public resources as well as more will against machoist violence, for combating poverty, for combating inequality, for facilitating more public housing for rent for more citizens and also for more money for development cooperation. Those are the things that are reflected in our partial amendments. We have not presented any rarity in the sense of in the end, suppressing what is meant for the high speed train, which is impossible, but what we have done is, we are going to allocate public money to what we consider to be more important. And that is why we have reduced the amounts initially allocated to the Euskaldunisation or the EITB, because we believe that this is less important, less priority than anything else. Finally, that is the meaning of our argument: lack of modernizing reforms, more of the same, poor choice of priorities. This would be the summary. If the necessary reforms had been promoted, we would have more resources. If we did things different from the things that have been done, it is possible that we would modernize and be able to serve more people. Indeed, the priorities have been wrongly chosen. They are the priorities of this government, they are the priorities of a Basque Nationalist Party, they are the priorities of a party that also receives the support of the Socialist Party. These are their priorities, but we believe that there was an alternative to setting up more social, more sensitive budgets that could also facilitate the creation of decent, stable and quality jobs. There are therefore many reasons I have explained during these weeks for voting against this draft budget. The social cuts promoted during recent years are consolidated and the welfare state is limited, while millions of euros of public money are allocated to unnecessary or non-priority actions. I told him earlier that we had to look at the regions or countries in our environment, especially those in the best position. In a better position. It would also be a good exercise to compare the evolution of certain items over recent years. Analyze all that. Indeed, what is meant for education, what is meant for health. How much he devoted a few years ago. How much it is now destined. Whether the budget for social emergency aid is going to be sufficient or not. If there has actually been a cut, or if there has not been a 7 % cut in social assistance. Yes, there has been. If, in fact, the minimum budgets for development cooperation are not reached. A few years ago, much higher amounts were reached, etc. And if we look at all that, we actually conclude that there are many things that could be done differently. Finally, I say, the Basque delegations are being maintained abroad, public money is being allocated for the promotion of Basque in France or Navarre, not enough effort is being made in R & D+i, more scholarships, innovation, competitiveness, entrepreneurship, not enough budgeted in social emergency aid. Finally, there are many data that I have given during all these weeks, which confirm that what we have said actually has the whole meaning of the world. For a fact, if we compare this project with the 2009 Draft Budgets, we see that more than 200 million euros less are budgeted in Education than then. If we compare this draft Budgets with the 2009 draft Budgets, we see that in Health more than 80 million euros are allocated less than then. In other words, there have actually been cuts or cuts that are now consolidated. EUR 120 million is still being allocated to EITB, which is in the service of the Basque Nationalist Party. More than EUR 100 million continues to be allocated to Euskaldunisation while other priority issues are left aside. Finally, these are our reasons, these are our reasons for having tabled the amendment as a whole at the time, for having tabled our partial amendments and today for voting against these budgets. I say, insufficient to solve the real problems of people, insensitive, continuous, and deeply conservative, because at the hands of the Basque Socialist Party what they basically do is to leave everything as it is, and there are many issues to be resolved. Euskadi has many problems, and all we have done during this time is try to solve those problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u10	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Gorospe, Article 133 says something, let's say it's left, that first you have to return what's not yours. That when they lend you money, then you have to pay. Especially if you want me to keep lending you back. Because it's self-interest. But well, I don't think I'm going to abound in that again, because I also know that you agree. Because it is not even Article 133, it is the principle of the European Union, and the monetary principle of the euro. It seems to me that it is not very encouraging to continue talking about this issue, or at least to discuss it with you because we both agree. I told him I said it was a budget pact. No, I have not said that it is a budgetary pact, I have said that it is not a budgetary pact. I have said that it is a political pact, because the budget does not touch a single item from which it comes, and what is done is to pass global credit directly to the sectarian amendments. Yes, sectarians, Mrs Gorospe, sectarians, to sectarian amendments. And there are also sectarian games. And in addition to what I said to you that it was not a budgetary pact, but that it was a political pact, which was obviously exclusive, because it excluded all the other groups from being able to negotiate anything. And besides, I add: and it is shameful. And it is shameful, because those who subscribe to it, those who will approve it neither defended it 15 days ago, nor defend it today, because it gives them shame. They didn't come out here to defend him. What it is, it's embarrassing. And you tell me it's the best budget possible for the PNV. And I, of course, can't argue with that. What happens is that since I'm not PNV, it's not only not the best, it's clearly better for me. And you were wondering if you'd like to know what I think about my internal affairs. Well, I'm willing to find out my internal and external background. And I will tell you that I don't like my taxes being spent in France or Navarre, that they are being spent on your taxes and that they are being financed by yours, I don't like it. And this comes in this budget. I don't like the private media being financed with this budget, I don't like it, with my taxes. And that's in my inner court. I find it excessive, very excessive, super excessive that with my taxes 140 million euros are paid to EITB. It seems to me excessive, super-excessive, that with my taxes, my internal and my external affairs, we spend more than 100 million euros in the Basque region and that every year it continues to increase, when the logical thing is that every year was less the game, because it is supposed that every previous year something has been done. But as he responds to the Basque excuse to finance other things, which is also sectarian, because I do not like in my internal forum that part of my taxes go to that. Since I don't like that part of my taxes is meant to finance pseudo-embassies around. There's an ambassador, a secretary and a local, and they're no use to us. I don't like it, neither in my inner court, nor in my outer court. I don't like that we spend money on organisms – we have told you – like Elika or Ihobe, which do us no good, neither in my internal or in my external. I don't like the money we spend on advertising this government. Internal, external and mid-pensionist, there I am. It bothers me more there. And, finally, to tell you, with this sectarian sectarianism, man, and I still don't like my taxes to be used to fund foundations of the Basque Nationalist Party or the Socialist Party. I don't like it either in my internal or in my external. In any case, I recognize that it is the best budget for you. And also for the Socialist Party, which hasn't touched a coma. Well, yes, I'm sorry, I think they changed a paragraph about "fraking" into a explanatory statement of a one-page chapter, as if that were something to do with this subject. In any case, I will say that we are the only group that we have tabled in our amendments, in the draft law, in the joint text, which is where it corresponds and where it touches, that the cuts of 7% do not occur, that the cut in the extra payment does not occur, or that the social emergency aid is, let us say, global, expandable. And well, we're on the dates we're on. 15 days ago the lehendakari, when he presented the Budget, told us that next year could be a good year. And I also think it can be a good year – now I have more doubts that it will be a good year – but, in any case, I wanted to wish you all a happy Christmas, a prosperous New Year. Those who believe in the Olentzero, let the Olentzero bring you many things; others are more traditionalist and more traditional, we believe more in the Magi and, therefore, we will wait fervently for the arrival, and that it also reaches all their homes. And, therefore, next year we can all enjoy them much more. And send a special reminder to the Finance Advisor, Ricardo Gatzagaetxebarria, that I am sure that next year will be much better for him and for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u12	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Madam Pindo, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u13	Thanks again, ma'am. Well, Mrs. Gorospe, you've just been told, "for you, these are the best budgets." It is obvious that for you they are the best Budgets, because they have not touched a coma and with 35 million nothing distributing alpiste, some seem to have solved the future of this country, but they have been to distribute alpiste. 14 1/2 million of the Socialist Party's 35 amendments to municipalities governed by the Socialist Party, and we do not add the related foundations and associations that, we are not going to start to say amounts, because Mr Damborenea has already said them, which are embarrassing in the budgets of an autonomous community. Departures of 1,000 euros for associations give shame, but shame. You will know what kind of payments you have to make, or why you accept such amendments, but that these amendments, as you have said, have begun to say, are amendments that have improved social policies and gone on. Look, at sidewalks and roundabouts 2 million euros, to local employment plans 100,000 more euritos; performances in urban spaces in a municipality governed by the Socialist Parties, which I will not name, 1,900,000 euros, program of unemployed older than 45 years, 500,000 euritos more; football field in another municipality governed by the Socialist Party, 400,000 euros, help to care for children under 3 years, 100,000 euros. I don't need much more. If these amendments and this budget meet the needs of society, because we need football fields, sidewalks, roundabouts, whatever that may be, it is not up to this Parliament to approve, they are from other institutions, and this Government and this Parliament do have an obligation to social aid, education and health in this country, and you are leaving. That the relaxation of the deficit path is what you think, because you hide it, but very well you hide it. And I have not said that there is no agreement, I have not said it, I have read textually a document of the Spanish Ministry of Finance, a document of the Ministry, not of Leire Pinedo, not of Euskal Herria Bildu. And it's not agreeing to do what he says in front of it, I insist, that's not agreeing. When Mr Montoro said, the Autonomous Communities deficit 0.3, and you say Autonomous Community of the Basque Country deficit 0.3, and think that is an agreement... Jolines, jolines, you have to have, you have to have what you have to have. That is not an agreement, that is to say that it is good, that it is great, and then we have just said that we must relax the path of the deficit, that we should be able to adapt the objective to our economic situation. How many times have we proposed to you from this rostrum since Euskal Herria Bildu and you have told us, this way? Hundreds of times, we have proposed to them to go as a voice, to go as a people, to go as an autonomous community, all together to Madrid to defend some issues, to defend that they have to be in accordance with the economic and social reality of this country. And you have made us turru, and you will know why. I already know, but you guys, too, I mean, don't come up with that. "Pertsonak helburu", and that we were calling for other issues. A woman and her three children leave their apartment in Vitoria, apartment owned by Alokabide, December 18, 2015. This hasn't been written by Euskal Herria Bildu, if even I'm in a hurry it's Deia's. This has not been written by Euskal Herria Bildu. Personak helburu? Come man, please, another dog with that bone, another dog with that bone. That the limitations... "Money is limited, there is for everything but there is no more." No, no, that this is because you want, that it is voluntary, that you have refused to make a modification of fiscal policy, that you have chosen to put in point number one – and I have already told you several times – "debt" and "deficit", and then already people, a little later, with what we have left. "We do what we can," and that when he told me about "lambs of grief," that nobody here cried... I insist, tears of complaint, they're not tears, they're tears of complaint. The mourners cried for a very concrete reason, because they paid them for crying, because they paid them for appearing that someone was sorry for the one who had died, and that's what happens here, that you cry, and we come here day and day also to say "We would like to have more, we can't do more, unfortunately this Budget doesn't give for more, we would also want to". And it's because you want it that way. Because you have chosen not to do what needs to be done. Because, of course, they've got the Circle of Entrepreneurs knocking on the door saying, "Reduce our taxes." Only to us; to the high incomes, to the curritos and curritos, who continue to pay, but to us to lower us, to remove the property tax, to lower the company tax. Well, we'll see how long it takes, because Adegi has been a short while since you've been paying attention to him, changing the tax on big fortunes. It's been a while. And so, one after the other, one after the other. Indeed, we are at Christmas time, Mr Damborenea has said, but the truth is that the Christmas spirit has not yet come to me, Mr Damborenea. Look at him wherever you look at him, this budget doesn't answer, and I've been saying it for the whole legislature. You've decided to be four years waiting to see them come, and that's how what's going on. You say that the reduction of unemployment in this government's activity is also an incidence. Allow me to disagree, because it cannot be a consequence of this government's activity when companies pass from Lanbide. Lanbide does not exist for the contractors of this country, they are not interested. So, that's where I think we're not doing well. You can't tell me that we are doing much better when internal government officials, responsible for statistics from the Department of Employment and Social Policy, insist that poverty has risen in 2015. 2015 poverty up. Income guarantee income beneficiaries do not decline. But you, with – how much we have said – with 1 million more than last year, tell us that it will give for everyone. Lie, it won't work. That is true, for the football field of that people, a few million, because it seems that the future of this country is in football, in the petanque, in all these issues that have so much had to matter to the Socialist Party, and you, it seems, also matter to you. To conclude, I insist that self - indulgence is genuinely self - complacent. "Benchmarking", I know what "benchmarking" is, of course I know, I also come from the private sector and I have also worked in companies where I had to do "benchmarking" every day, at 8 a.m., every day. But don't cheat on the loner. "Benchmarking" is not looking at the neighbor next door alone, it's looking at the generality, it's looking at the best. And you can't cheat on the lonely, looking at those who are from the Ebro down, as you usually do, or use maliciously, because that of the indicators being objective, telling me; the economists know that the indicators are not objective, they never are. Everyone looks at what they want and you always look very skillfully at the average of the European Union as a whole. Why? Because there is Romania, because there is Poland, because there are so many countries that we all know that their quality as a welfare state is far from what we want, at least those of EH Bildu. So, of course, if we cheat on the loner, we'll always go out front. Always going out in the picture in front is wonderful, very easy, always comparing yourself to who you're interested in, but so we don't get anywhere. And if we want this country to move forward once and for all, we must be bold. We must take a step forward, and we must decide here, and not continue as you continue, by trapping the lonely and distributing the alp, because that is what you have done with these Budgets, by distributing the alp to those gentlemen and to those ladies so that they are chitton. And today they are going to give them a word, although they probably should not have, even today, the use of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Madame Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u15	What a pity, Pindo, I assure you. I'm sorry to hear it. It's so bitter. I can't understand, I can't understand, although I don't belong to your party, I think that to tell a group of people who are hard, honest, modest, commitment, and devoted to the public service, and who are going to work for our country, who are cheating on the planet, weeping, thinking of something else, to make fiction and to interpret. Too bad. I think a coalition like you ought really to have a different attitude in this town, not to be in the government. You have no credibility or credibility in such a speech, it will be impossible for you. It'll be impossible for you. First, all respect, respect all people. And all the members of the M.M. are all people, everybody's people, and we need respect. There won't be any camps like this for each other. I think we're getting the airwork out of this budget. Look, the money introduced by correction was 35 million euros, the day Mr. Egibar argued about the full correction. The corrections you introduced were less. Even though you've made a speech, that's what you've been upheld by the fun affair. By making a real analysis, as Egibar told you in the debate on the amendment as a whole, by making a real analysis of the amendments you have tabled, what you have done is to give support to the budget of the Basque Government because you have only tabled real amendments of 0,3 per cent. Bai, Urruzuno jauna. Zuk zeuk esan zenuen kazetari batzuk hortik goitik dabizenak galdetu zizutenan, "but is it true that we can use the money that comes from the VAD in the management order? Eta zuk esan zenuen "Ez, ezin das erabili bieste spentu ordaintzeko". Zuk zeuk. Then the only possible possible in practice is 0.3. You're not going to vote for the API, but you're going to protect what you've done. You couldn't make new games, move from one to the next. And besides, in front of our budget policy, whatever you've done in the short time you've been in handling, because it's what everyone has to do, or because the consequences may be hard to do, you accuse us of doing that. And that's false. And this people need honesty without falsehood. And this people need modesty without pride. Yes, yes. I believe you do the best you can to do your job. You will defend a project and I will have another, but I will not doubt your efforts to defend your project. And the speech I've heard here is terrible, it's terrible. And I'd say you had no respect for a group that really has an engagement. And so we won't do it with all of us. Anyway, let's make sure that our legislative team is engaged to the president's office, we'll have all the teams on the Basque team, all of us, and everyone's going to Euskakia. We have no doubt about it. The budget is realistic and daring and it gives Eukadi stability. And that's what we need. peace, stability, speaking, arguing when necessary, and respecting one another. Lord Damboea has been a good Christmas to you, and all good New Year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. [[Berber]] We're done talking and now we're going to vote. First, Mistto-UPD teams are registered divisional corrections, Misto-UPyD corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 2, 2, opposites, 63; white, 0; abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u17	This is why UPD corrections were not accepted. After that, the Euskal popular groups are reserved for the distributions, the popular corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 10; the opponents, 64; white, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u18	Therefore, the corrections of the Popula Party have not been accepted. They vote for the EH Collecting Groups reserved for Party rounds. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters are 21; the opposites are 54; white; 0; abstentions are 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u19	The corrections for EH Collect have not been accepted. Charges of expenses are put into vote, and changes approved by the discussion of the committee. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 75; supporters, 33; counters, 32; white, 0; abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u20	So they're accepted. The Euscalal Popular Groups agree with the corrections reserved on the articles of the law, from number 1.328 to the 1,339. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 10; the opponents, 64; white, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u21	So they didn't accept it. Next, the following articles are agreed upon: Ten, 14, 16, 17, 19, 20, 23, 6, and 11, add additional regulations, 1, and 3, of the last regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 75; supporters, 33; counters, 32; white, 0; abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u22	As a result, the articles we've said were accepted. The rest of the Articles of Judgment, that have no Consequence at the same time; that is to say, from 1 to 9, 1 to 13, 18, 21, 22, 24, 33. attachments and the name of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 75; supporters, 33; counters, 32; white, 0; abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u23	Thus the law of the General Prevenence is approved by Euskazadi Autonomy, 2016 years of Erria. After that, the Social Party will have an explanation. It's not in the document, but in the budgets of 2014 and 2015, we did the same thing. So we're still doing the same thing. You have a five-minute vote description, Mr. Pastor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u24	Thank you, President. The Basque Socialists have decided for the third consecutive year to facilitate the approval of the Basque Country's budgets. Firstly, because of responsibility, because we believe that if minimum conditions are given, it is better for citizens to have approved budgets than to have no budget, because we believe that opposing the government is something more than opposing the government – that is one of its functions – but without neglecting other tasks, among them, that of pushing the executive's action in the direction that marks the program itself, seeking the general interest. That is what the Socialist Group believes and does, and what it seeks to achieve with the utmost consistency, also in the process of drawing up these budgets. They will remember that he did not shake our pulse three years ago to force the withdrawal of the first draft budgets that this Government presented. We did so with the same consistency, because, with the exception of the deficit reduction, that budget cut back on spending of more than 1 billion that would in turn entail cuts in essential public services and a lack of resources to combat unemployment and stagnation in economic activity. And in that opposition we agree with many of you in this House. But, since then, some things have happened. The Lehendakari and his party assumed their position as a minority, clinging to the generous offer made by the Socialist Party to reach a country pact focused on defending public services, reviving the economy and employment, and modernizing the institutional structure. And it began to do what the PNV refused when it was in opposition: a tax reform that more accurately distributed tax burdens and guaranteed the resources needed to achieve the stated objectives. This year, as the Government is well aware, we have made it easier for the 2016 Budgets to move forward, as we did in the most turbulent times of the lehendakari Ibarretxe, because of consistency and responsibility, because we want the improvement of tax collection, resulting from the tax reform that we launched, to be translated into the strengthening of public services and the increase of investment in knowledge and employment. It is true, that it is not done with the intensity that we would have liked, among other things, because this would have required previous steps, more determined, in the fight against tax fraud and also a more transparent and rigorous fixing of the tax revenues provided by the outlaws, so that this does not seem like a sort of subdued tuxedo departure in which no one knows the letters of the other, and where the amount varies magically from one month to the next, because we are talking about the money that we bring all Basques and Basques. However, this budget – and thanks largely to the contributions of the Socialist Party – doubles the allocation to alleviate energy poverty, as well as the allocation of the ESAs, with which the municipalities deal with the most urgent cases of need. Similarly, this budget ensures compliance with two important laws adopted by this Parliament. Firstly, the coverage of the subjective right to decent housing for those who cannot afford it. And also, that no public euro is devoted to exploring or exploiting gas resources by fracking in and outside the territory of the Autonomous Community. I would like to stress that the Socialists are committed to this, as the Councillor for Economic Development is well aware, and I am sorry to say that Mrs Pinedo, whom I have seen too nervous in this rostrum today. I would also like to highlight the reinforcement that is incorporated in the 2016 accounts to encourage employment and training, with specific programmes for long-term unemployed and young people, as well as support for the family, reconciliation, among other purposes. Measures complementary to the partial amendments of the Socialist Party and which, as I have pointed out, in addition to strengthening ESAs and aid against energy poverty, better provide research and innovation, provide more resources to treat patients with Hepatitis C and cancer, or allocate half a million euros to promote less-favoured areas of Álava. For all these reasons, the Basque Socialists have wanted and managed to get Euskadi to have a budget in 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u25	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Second point on the subject list: "The violation of the committee of the election, of the Security, and of the Justice of Justice, of the bill of public spectacles, and of games. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Erkok, who's a worker of fun. No? Estela Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. He's not here. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, good morning. The law of the show is to replace the law which has been established for twenty years. And this bill of legislation is the principal object: to secure the safety and comfort of the spectators in the entertainments of leisure, sports, and culture. The bill now before the plenary of this House for adoption seeks primarily to ensure the safety and comfort of persons involved in public, cultural, sports and leisure activities. It also seeks to balance the different sensitivities, rights and obligations of organizers, users and other persons who may be indirectly affected by such activities. In summary, the new bill seeks to facilitate the safe development of public performances and activities, the safety and health of the participants, the comfort and environmental sustainability of all the equipment in which they are held, and peaceful and orderly coexistence in their development. The indispensable demand for the development of public spectacles and enterprises, and the respect for life, which the law prescribes to the organaries. The law requires the organization of events and shows to the necessary conditions for their safe development and respect for coexistence. It also requires that shows be adapted to new uses, new habits and new leisure habits, and also to new spaces where they are produced. This bill also favours the initiative of entrepreneurs, thereby eliminating administrative duplications affecting the granting of qualifications or administrative inspection and control interventions. As a clearly new aspect, it is important to highlight the regulation of the rights and duties of spectators and users of these shows, strengthening legal certainty in certain aspects such as that of the sanctioning regime. The Act consists of 66 articles, which are grouped into five titles, four additional provisions, five transitional provisions, one derogation and four final provisions, in addition to an annex containing the catalogue of public shows and recreational activities and also public establishments. The first title establishes the object and scope of the law, determining the matters to be excluded and the shows and activities to be prohibited. In addition, the Basque Council for Public Shows and Recreation is also regulated as a body for inter-administrative coordination and cooperation and public participation. The second title regulates the substantive rules governing public performances and recreational activities, beginning with the list of rights and duties of spectators, users, organizers, and even artists, performers and other personnel. In addition, one of the novel aspects is that the rights of third persons, those that may be affected in their legitimate interests, are contemplated. The participation of volunteering in entertainment and recreational activities is also envisaged. This second title contains an express mention of the measures for the protection of children and young people, both in relation to party rooms, discotheques, cyberlocals, games rooms not suitable for their age, and also in relation to the stay in those establishments for the sale and consumption of alcohol. The third title regulates the arrangements for the opening of public establishments and the holding of entertainment and recreational activities, simplifying the framework of licences required for their opening. It is the responsibility of the municipalities to check prior to the opening of public establishments, but it provides that the authorities of the Basque Government may intervene when there is a special risk of the activity, and provided that the forum is more than 700 people. In the supervision, which is autonomous in these cases, in the cases of shows and Taurino celebrations, in the case of pyrotechnic celebrations and also in the tests carried out on the long-distance routes. And the intervention of the Basque Government's entertainment authority is also automatic in cases where the celebration of the shows is more than 700 people. Even in those spaces that are open, but that are narrowed with access restrictions, as is the case with Azkena Rock or BBK Live. Title 4 regulates surveillance and inspection, as well as control. First, it establishes cases of suspension and legal prohibition, either because of lack of prior communication or authorization, because adequate security conditions are not met or because there is a certain danger to persons and property, or because there is a provision for serious disturbances. In this title, it also envisages the possibility of deploying special police devices to strengthen the security of the attending public. It would be events of mass concurrence, in which the large influx of public, or because there was a history of riots, violent events or other extraordinary causes, required the presence of special police devices. When events requiring these special devices benefit the organizers in particular, the law incorporates the Ertzaintza special service delivery fee. This provision of extraordinary police protection services in mass spectacles will always be subject to the prior assessment of the foreseeable risk to the security of persons and property. In any event, public administrations and non-profit entities are exempt from the payment of this fee, such as foundations, associations declared to be of public benefit and voluntary organizations which pursue general interest purposes and allocate the income they obtain to the fulfilment of the statutory purposes and the object of the entity. Title 5 deals with the sanctioning regime and comprises four chapters which are intended to define offences, types of sanctions, the limitation and expiry regime and the jurisdiction and sanctioning procedure respectively. This new law of shows, this bill that we present today of public shows and recreational activities, is a modern draft law, updated, adapted to the times and to the Basque society of today and guarantees the balance between the rights and interests of spectators, organizations and third parties. I certainly understand that it will be a valid instrument for the effective regularization of the entertainment sector over the coming years, as has also been the law that will replace it. The resulting text has been enriched and improved by the contributions of all parliamentary groups, thanks to the willingness of all to reach agreements. The positive assessment of this House will be the best indicator of the importance of reaching agreements for the good of society. The project of public enterprises and public spectacles has reached the goal of political consent, and it is only useful to the reality of these singular and important social souls that has been placed in the way of accepting the new law. It is therefore a celebration which we ought to offer to each other that the consent of the law is still more to this evening and yearly evening, which has been celebrated with culture and leisure celebrations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u27	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Any members of the board, judgment? For the defense of the saved rights of the teams, Mistto-UPyD's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u28	Yes, President. Very briefly, in order to say that we are basically in agreement with the draft law submitted by the Government, we are only making four partial amendments. One of them was assumed and three others remain alive. These three refer to or were intended to further and better defend the dignity of the victims of terrorism. They were discussed in committee, the rest of the groups rejected these amendments and therefore in the turn we are dealing with today, I am only saying that we are defending them. I say that the objective was to defend more and better the victims of terrorism. Moreover, we basically agree with what was proposed by the Government and also with the text that finally came out of the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u29	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Norbaitek aurkako txandan part hartu nahi du? Bai, Llanos. No, against, against. On the counter turn? Bitch? Ez, ore of the turn against. Bai. Orin bai.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u30	Thank you. With your permission from my seat. Well, I was thinking of making a statement against the amendments of the two groups, but if we have to do so... We simply say that the amendments that Mr Maneiro has reserved for this plenary are not going to support them, because we understand that the draft law already defends all victims, those of terrorism as well, and we therefore believe that there is no need to make this issue specific in this law. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u31	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Mrs Llanos, representing the Potula team, has the word to defend the classified corrections.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u32	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. As already stated in the statement of reasons for the law, and as the Counsellor has said here, one of the fundamental reasons for the modification of the law is the time since the previous one: 20 years. And that obviously, over the past 20 years social and cultural customs have varied and leisure-related actions, and this required new regulation. New regulation covering the rights and obligations of both organisers, viewers and users. As well as trying to combine leisure activities with citizens' right to rest, as well as ensuring coexistence. In addition, this law was bound by the need to adapt to Community legislation and is also aimed at promoting culture, facilitating public performances and recreational activities. These were the reasons, as has been said here, for the presentation of this project with which we basically agree and consider it appropriate, both the presentation of it and the content. What we did was to ask for the appearance of a number of people, because we considered it desirable that those who might be linked to the object of the law could express their opinion or possible changes that they would make to the project to improve it. Thus, this group requested the attendance, among others, of the Basque Union of Police and Emergencies, don Enrique Campo, artistic promoter of the Basque Federation of Consumers and Users, and of Juan Luis González, of Bizkaia Events, in order to give opinion on different aspects of the law. In addition, the Bizkaia Cycling Federation, the trade union delegate of the Donostia Fire Park and Don Aritz Varela and Don Sergio Regueiro, producers of shows on the proposal of EH Bildu, also attended. From here I would like to thank all those people who came to the committee and who later helped us to make possible amendments, because they were very interesting appearances and, as I say, they served us for the work we do in this law. The People's Group has tabled 90 amendments to the draft, of which 54 have been accepted. And these accepted amendments were intended to technically improve the text by giving it another wording, which we considered to be more appropriate, to eliminate parts of it which we considered to be more appropriate to a regulation or to interfere with Law 2/98. We also intended to provide greater legal certainty, to improve the application of administrative silence, to increase the guarantee of reconciling the right to leisure and the right to engage in such professional activity with the right to rest. 31 of these amendments have not been accepted and 5 have been withdrawn. Some of those not admitted were aimed at improving the definitions of the organizer, for example, to improve the regulation of the percentage of admissions reserved for the public, to improve the regulation of the right of admission, or the need for a prior hearing for suspension of a show, or that the competent authorities – worth redundancy – were the competent authorities and not the delegated persons. For example, we also proposed – although it has not been admitted and we have reserved for you for this plenary – that not only the very serious sanctions, but also the serious ones, should be the responsibility of the Basque Government to initiate, investigate and resolve the file and that, in the case of the very serious ones, the imposition of the penalty should be the responsibility of the head of the department and in the case of the serious ones to the vice-counsel. And we also gave a different wording to the precautionary measures. I would like to make a particular emphasis on an amendment which we tabled, which has been rejected and which we have maintained and which, in the event that it is not admitted here again, we will propose, as has been said in committee, as an amendment to the rules governing sport. With this amendment we intended to create an additional third provision regulating contact sports. And through this amendment what we wanted was a definition of these sports, the modalities of them, the protection, the rights of the athletes, regulating the facilities, arbitration equipment, medical coverage, the protection of the rights of the public, the regulatory body and the sanctioning regime. The presentation of this amendment in this law and in the Act on Shows is because many times these events, although they may be considered sporting, also have a spectacle character and in many cases they are organized as such, and it originates in the claims that here made some of the participants I mentioned earlier. And with the aim, above all, of giving safety to the athletes and participants. And it is that when such an event is organized, of contact sports, if it is organized as a sporting evening, a series of requirements, of medical checks, of insurance, must be met, but if it is organized outside this federation, as a public spectacle and through an association, these requirements are not met and can endanger the safety of the participants, because, as I say, if it is organized outside the federation neither the Sports Directorate of the Basque Government nor Games and Shows have basis to intervene. Therefore, what we wanted with this amendment was that there should be a specific basis for intervention and that when such an evening was organised either by the federation or by an association, the requirements would be the same and the participants could have the same guarantees of security, the same rights. Furthermore, I have to say that, as has also been shown here, during the course of the presentation there has been a great deal of responsability for the admission of amendments by all the groups, I believe that the law has improved with input from all of us, and that is why we will vote in favour of all the articles, except those on which we have maintained amendments, in which we are not going to vote against, but we are going to abstain, because although we believe that they would improve with our amendments, we also believe that they are appropriate and that they do not deserve a flat-rate rejection. Nothing and thank you very much. And last but not least, because I don't think they're taking part in a second round, wishing everyone a real Christmas from the People's Group and a happy 2016.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u33	Thank you, Miss Llanos. The Eubertarian patriot, Mr. Marrill, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u34	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good noon to all. A total of 169 amendments have been tabled during the course of this Public Shows and Recreation Bill, of which 57 have been accepted in the paper and 56 have been fucked, i.e. in one way or another more than two out of every three amendments tabled have been accepted, thus improving the resulting text with input from all parliamentary groups. Briefly, some examples of accepted amendments that we believe may be relevant, as some of them would be proposed by EH Bildu, have been eliminated from the bail initially provided for in Article 31 for occasional shows on specific dates that were set to ensure the payment of possible fines. On the proposal of the Socialist Group, the composition of the Basque Council for Public Shows and Recreational Activities will be determined by regulation and its report will be mandatory, also here it coincided with the People's Group. Another is that the administrative silence for authorisations will be positive rather than negative, also on the proposal of the Socialist Group and the People's Group. And finally, on the proposal of EH Bildu, UPyD and the People's Group, the issue of Ertzaintza's special service charges is clarified, leaving clear the exemptions, as the adviser said, which are public administrations and non-profit entities, specifying which ones are thus considered in the project. I must acknowledge that with the Socialist Group and with EH Bildu it has been possible to reach a degree of complete consensus, and therefore thank Mrs Gallastegui and Mr Arzuaga for not having reserved for the full any of their unaccepted amendments. With regard to UPyD, as I have had to speak before, I am not going to repeat myself in what has been said. Finally, with regard to the Group of the European People's Party, as you have said, Mrs Llanos, many of your amendments have been adopted, namely 54, which, as I said earlier, together with those of the other groups, have improved the final text. However, after yesterday's withdrawal of five of its unaccepted amendments, the remaining 31 have been reserved for the plenary, as I said. Of the reserved amendments, many propose formal amendments, of mere style or drafting, which do not affect the essential content of the draft law, but which the paper considered did not contribute to improving the resulting text, unlike a much larger number, those 54 of the People's Group which have been positively assessed and incorporated into the final text. We are not going to enter here now into the specific debate of each amendment, we understand that this has been the work in the paper and we do not believe that it should be reproduced at this time. Only, and since you have made reference to this, I will mention two in particular, one, Amendments 74 to 80 of the People's Group, which referred to the determination of the bodies responsible for sanctioning, which propose to restrict municipal jurisdiction only to small ones and to eliminate the competence of the Basque Government's Directorate for Shows. We don't think it's appropriate. In the case of municipalities, it would mean that they would have virtually no sanctioning capacity and would never be able to close an establishment, only impose small fines, even in cases where the municipalities themselves were responsible for authorization, control and inspection. And also, since in committee and today it has also given it greater importance, I will refer to your amendment 87, by which they intend to incorporate a provision for regulating contact sports. Despite the problems that the representative of the Federation of Contact Sports showed us in his appearance, we understand that such a proposal, the one put forward by the People's Group, makes no sense in this law as it is proposed, neither by its object, nor by its content, nor by its extension, since it seeks to regulate aspects that have more to do with the sporting order than with that of shows, such as sports modalities, competition rules or judges and arbitrators. In conclusion, I have only to thank my colleagues for his work and for his willingness to get to the consent. And I think we have a good law, and we hope at least that the former who represents it will last the other. Like the rest of the comrades, congratulate them on Christmas and wish that in 2016 we continue on this path of improvement that we have marked. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u35	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. After discussion, it's agreed to vote on the 11th Euscal Group's 11th Amendment, 6. the article was made. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 10; the opponents, 64; white, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u36	So he didn't accept it. The correction of the Misto-UPyD team 91, 6. the article was made. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 1,11; counters, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u37	So he didn't accept it. Next, we'll vote for article 6. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters are 64; the opponents are 0; the white ones are 0,0; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u38	So the 6th article has been approved. At the Bottos it is composed of 20, 21, 23, 24, and 25th corrections made in article 12. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 10; the opponents, 64; white, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u39	So they didn't accept it. It goes to the vote by Misto-UPyD team 92. Responsible, article 12. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 1,11; counters, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u40	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for article 12. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters are 64; the opponents are 0; the white ones are 0,0; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u41	So the 12th article is accepted. It's at the Bottos on 56 of the Basque Potula. Correct me, article 51. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 75; 10; counters, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u42	So he didn't accept it. It goes to vote for the Misto-UPyD team 93. correction made by Article 51. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 1,11; counters, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u43	It is not therefore accepted to be correction. And next, we vote for article 51 of the voter. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters are 64; the opponents are 0; the white ones are 0; 0; abstentions are 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u44	So the article 51 has been accepted. The suffrages are joined together by the 5, 7, 17, 31, 35, 38, 55, 58, 60, 64, 66, 67, 74 to 80, 84. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 10; the opponents, 64; white, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u45	So they didn't accept it. At one vote of the articles of correction: 2, 17, 21, 22, 39, 46, 53, 54, 56, 58, 62, and 65. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u46	So they're accepted. The articles of criticism that have no correction are put to vote. That is to say, 1, 3 to 5, 7 to 11.14, 13 to 20, 23 to 45, 40 to 50, 52, 55, 57, 59 to 61, 63, 64, and 66, addable regulations, transient regulations, unimpaired regulations, and the last regulations. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 74; the opposites, 1; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u47	All that has been said has been accepted. The explanation and the name of the law are put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u48	The law of the Predence Showments, and of the Jarduers, is therefore approved. Next vote, who's going to participate? Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u49	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen; good morning, Lehendakari, counselors and counselors. Egun where you're going. Well, the socialists have supported this law because it is basically the text drawn up by the socialist government of Patxi López and I invite anyone who wants to compare the draft submitted in 2012 with which we now approve, in case it finds the seven differences. So once again we've approved...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u50	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u51	You're very kind, President. A rule of clear socialist footprint like several others, such as the Law of Long Life Learning, the Law of Incompatibilities or the Law of Housing. But it is a pity that we have taken so long to approve it, because in reality the present Government was left with the work well ahead of it, but then amended it so that, finally, in the course of the proceedings in this House, it would end up accepting our amendments, which would leave it virtually as in the original submitted by the Socialist Government. Parliamentary paradoxes. However, I have to thank you very much for the consensual disposition, the consensual attitude of the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party, Mr Zorrilla. As far as the substance is concerned, and briefly, to point out that, as the Councilwoman and some of the previous speakers have said, it was necessary to adapt and update the existing law, which we now repeal, to Community legislation resulting from the transposition of the services directive into the internal market, in order to simplify procedures, eliminate duplication and provide legal certainty. It was also necessary to ensure the balance between the right to freedom of citizenship in order to choose the form of leisure and fun and of businesses in order to offer a wide and diverse list of events. And all this, moreover, without more limit than the respect to the legal obligations arising from the general interest for reasons of security, coexistence and respect for the rights of the persons, whether these users, organizers or third parties affected. It was also effective in strengthening the security of public premises, while ensuring the mobility and accessibility of people with different problems or capacities, and improving controls and inspection. To give greater prominence to the municipalities in the pre-opening control of public establishments, and also to delineate the competences and functions between the different institutional levels, facilitating things for citizens and avoiding the duplication of intervention by the different public administrations. This law, ladies and gentlemen, substantially improves the relationship between the Administration and the Administration, by consecrating, as Mr Zorrilla has indeed recalled, the positive administrative silence in the procedures for obtaining authorizations in order to hold shows or events on the way and public spaces, forcing the Administration to respond in time. And there is also a significant improvement in the regime of surveillance, control and inspection of these shows, as well as in the sanctioning regime, providing it with greater legal certainty. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we have adopted a law that substantially improves the regulation that we had to date and that, as I said earlier, we could have passed years ago. In short, we passed Law No. 17 of this legislature, excluding the three budget laws, the fifth law of the Government, of 17, 5, at the initiative of the Executive. And I remember this, very briefly, because we are in the wake of the mandate and if you look back, you will not find a previous legislature with such a poor legislative balance, although lately we are seeing that traffic is collapsing a little bit, especially with so much referral and above all with so much project announcement, that we will see if they come to fruition. But finally, this public spectacle is a reality today, it will not be in force for these frantic Christmas days, but if I may take advantage of this last plenary of the year to wish you, ladies and gentlemen, that you enjoy those recreational and playful activities that you like best. Be happy. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Third point in the theme list... I'm sorry! Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u53	Yes, thank you. I also want to take a word to express our vote in order to honor this Jendur Show and Jardue Act. In fact, we received a number of matches on the committee, and I want to put them in value. Because these proposals and counsels were the axis of the work of the EH Collector. A number of societies, experts, speculators, and spectulators, had so much anxiety about the first project that had appeared to us, and these concerns have been our base and our red line for discussions. I suppose a suitable answer has been given through transfers that these red lines and these concerns may be somehow resolved. I want to explain them one by one, or, at least, pass them over. The practice of unadvised institutions is protected by the law. In connection with this, the volunteer's work is considered and is said to recover. In shows and sports activities the volunteer's work is a symbol of the potentiality of the popular and of wealth. The example of this was, that at the committee we were able to take, the famous Pirate's initiation, and that they asked us to protect and comfort the volunteer's work, and we think that this is the case with the law. It is said that the bolster is to be developed through the treatment necessary, and we shall be attentive to this executive development. In the mornings there was a matter of concern, about the rate of public security service, in particular from the cyclists' Federation. Through the working of the law, we have exempted the payment of this service of the Border, when the organizers are either public administration or unattentioned institutions. And I think that's all right. The article 21 is still stated that there will be several displays which will have special security measures, which must be developed through the rule, and we shall also be alert to make this rule properly developed. We wanted to save two other concepts which are confined to the frontier of the spectacles, which are connected with freedom of expression, or with the right of meeting or meeting, and we also think that this is the case with the law. SOS racism required us to accept the conditions of public settlements, or to prevent the term "derecho de admision," from being a divested, and we think that we also save this in the law. And in the article 31 of the project, these bails were, no doubt, very high, upon very great spectacles, and as we were told in the occurrences, this would produce a terrible damage in the sector. We have hitherto been without such bail, and have also been able to inquire into the fact that there are no such bails in the like laws, and we have finally succeeded in depriving them of bail in this law. And we think that's okay. So all the red lines are saved, EH Collect has protected this law. Often, as it is said in such cases, this is not our law, because we think that small scenes, the most popular, are intended to set the conditions of great spectacles on actions of little space-less leisure. We think we ought to be more flexible with these little sights, and with the larger ones, because it sometimes happens in this law vice versa. I think it's significant that the chief department has mentioned two performances, the latest Rock and the BBK Live, but we must consider that 99% of these are minor shows and minor enterprises, and this law will mainly affect them. We hope we don't make any trouble by the applications of this law, but, as we say, we'll be on our guard. I will not congratulate myself on this law, because I do not think I have any feeling of ceremony, because our work, though it seldom happens in this legislation, is a law of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u54	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Third point in theme list: "The dispensation of the Institutions, Security, and Justice Committee, concerning the bill of the Law to change the Act of the Acts of the Basque Parliament for the fifth time. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the committee? Then we'll go to the teams' turn. Teams' turn, saved corrections for defense, Mistto-UPyD. It's your word, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u55	Thank you very much, President. This is a bill that basically aims to implement is to introduce a series of technical amendments and adapt the Elections Act to the Basque Parliament to the LOREG. As far as the technical aspects are concerned, let's say I don't have much to say. All this, in short, I leave to you that, through the corresponding amendments, you have certainly managed to improve the bill. In any case, we have tabled 23 partial amendments, of which only 4 were finally incorporated into the opinion. But beyond the technical aspects, and since we are talking about an electoral law and an electoral law, in this case, conditioned by the LOREG, I take the opportunity to make a number of demands that are purely political and of regeneration of democracy, which we think it is essential to put into effect as soon as possible, and not only in Euskadi, but in Spain as a whole. I would therefore like to put forward four political proposals to be introduced in this electoral law or in the national electoral law, and in all the current electoral laws. I think they are citizens' demands that during the last few years, during the last few years, they are gaining weight. And that, on the other hand, I myself have defended in this Parliament on several occasions over the past six years and we have also defended these same ideas in the Congress of Deputies. Firstly, we consider it essential to ensure that the vote of each citizen is equal, regardless of where he or she resides, the implementation of the single constituency, both for Euskadi and for Spain as a whole. And that is one of the demands we make when we present the amendment as a whole at the time. Obviously, this is a pending issue and, since the general elections were this very Sunday, I think it is a good time to demand – I say, not only in Basque, but in Spain as a whole – the establishment of the single constituency to end the inequality of voting. We can look at the election results and check things as strange and unfair as that Left United with 900,000 votes get two deputies and the Basque Nationalist Party, for example, with 300,000 votes get six. I therefore take the opportunity to call for the introduction of the single constituency, not only for Euskadi, but for Spain as a whole. I also take the opportunity to claim – and this is also something that we have collected in our own amendment to the whole of this bill – the implementation not of the unblocked lists, but of the open lists to give greater decision-making power to citizens. We have also defended this idea in this Parliament at least twice over the past six years, and it is true that all political parties voted against it. And the same has happened in recent years in the Congress of Deputies. It is a demand that is heard a lot in television chats, it is a demand that is used a lot and is claimed in the rallies of certain political parties. But, at the time of truth, the truth is that no one proposes it. And when someone proposes it, like UPyD, all other political parties vote against it. Therefore, it is also a good time today to demand the implementation of the open lists, which is also a matter that is reflected in an UPyD amendment that remains alive. I also claim that councillors or mayors cannot at the same time be Basque parliamentarians, I believe that the fact that I am a Basque parliamentarian requires work that is intense enough so that this position cannot be compatible with that of mayor or councillor. And this same idea is also being defended for the whole of Spain, this same idea has also been defended in this Parliament and all the other political parties voted against it. And I also believe that the legal path, although not only the legal path, must be to prevent political transfuguism, which has occurred in Spain in recent months by certain political parties. Laws must be empowered to prevent political transfuguism, to prevent one public office from passing from one seat to another in just a few hours. We must prevent political parties from negotiating in the offices with public offices...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u56	Mr. Maniro, to defend your amendment, and it seems that you have not put those things into your repentance. So focusing on the amendments, okay? Please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u57	Some...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u58	Allaris, no. Please, repent, defend your repentance, not anything else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u59	These ideas are perfectly reflected in the amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u60	You can defend your amendment from now on, okay?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u61	... in the whole amendment that we are presenting. It is therefore necessary to prevent certain political parties from negotiating with public offices of other political parties in order to include them in their lists. This is a very topical issue, this has happened a lot in recent months and, therefore, I ask the political parties with presence in this House and the political parties with presence in the Congress of Deputies that these measures of regeneration of democracy can be put in place as soon as possible, in order to regenerate democracy, because behaviors that facilitate or drive in political transfuguism degrade and degenerate politics. Obviously, I know that in order to carry out these reforms we must reform the LOREG, we must reform even the Gernika Statute itself, as I will be reminded by some spokesmen shortly, but in any case, since we are talking about an electoral law, I think it is necessary to talk about politics. The technical aspects are good and important, but I believe that citizens are particularly interested in political matters, and these are extremely important political matters. The Socialist Group is presenting an amendment incorporating the zip lists. We believe that there is no improvement in the matter as to how the law is currently in place, and moreover, in this way, it would be impossible, for example, the presence of three women in the first positions on the lists, so we will vote against that socialist amendment, which is indeed, unlike many others, because it is an amendment that we can consider political and worthy of discussion at least. On March 5, 2015, just a few months ago, he read in a media outlet, in a national newspaper, that the Socialist Party advocated the introduction of open lists, words in the mouth of its secretary general, Pedro Sánchez. I think it is right that the Socialist Party should defend the introduction of open lists in certain interviews. We support the introduction of open lists better than the introduction of zip lists. I wish it could be possible, because it is essential to implement, in the whole of Spain, in the coming months, these reforms and many others of regeneration of democracy. I wish you could do it! I wish you had the courage to carry them out! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u62	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Next, Mr. Barrio, representative of the Basque Potion Group. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u63	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Lehendakari, members of the Government, good morning. To briefly defend the amendments of the People's Group to the Fifth Amendment Bill to the Elections Act to the Basque Parliament. We have kept for this plenary 12 of the 29 initial amendments, another 17 amendments tabled have been accepted by compromise or have been taken in the course of presentation. We wanted to work on the fundamentally technical nature of this law and its need for a better and undeniable accommodation for new adaptations, new circumstances and electoral conditions. Our amendments have primarily aimed at legal certainty, and to this end reference has been made and have led to the regulation of matters already dealt with and valued by the Central Electoral Board, by the Basque Electoral Board, by the Organic Law on General Electoral Regime itself and its amendments, which, as basic legislation, must also be reflected in the autonomous regulations. Also, other important circumstances such as the rulings of the Constitutional Court, and we have referred to the justification of our amendments to judgment 123/2011, which was an important reference also for all the amendments. That is to say, agreements, instructions, adaptations, conditions of the Central Electoral Board, of the Electoral Board of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and fundamentally of the basic legislation, is what has, of course, constituted the bulk of our amendments to this bill. We have also tried to clarify some confusing issues with little legal certainty, such as electronic formats in the electoral process. We have also tried to improve some issues that have to do with the drafting of the law itself, with the clarity of the law – which is something fundamental in all the laws and what we will of course continue to talk about in the electoral processes that we have in this Parliament under way – and to draft and better explain some of the issues that were somewhat confusing. That is our position on a bill that we understood fundamentally technical, as I said at the beginning. We maintain our 12 amendments. The amendments that we maintain and understand alive were going to improve, from our point of view, those issues that have to do with legal certainty, with drafting, with the clarity of the bill. In any case, they have not been assumed and they will surely be rejected, but well, there they are maintained and we will vote in favour. And also, as we did in committee, we will vote against the amendments maintained by the EH Bildu parliamentary group and the two amendments maintained by the Socialist Group, and we will abstain from the amendments maintained and raised by the Mixto-UPyD group. I also take this opportunity to congratulate you on all Easter and to wish you a happy year 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u64	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u65	Thank you, President. In politics it is essential to have shared rules of play, and that is why the best electoral laws are those that are drawn up with the greatest possible consensus. And this fortunately has had it. Thanks to this effort to seek agreements, the Government has today been able to give a significant boost to its unclear legislative package. Although I would like to recall that this text that we have adopted today is, to a large extent, an heir to the draft homologous law drawn up by the former Socialist Government, a draft that entered the House in January 2012, which could not be approved for lack of time, and which could have been approved for a long time, if the present Government had not inexplicably delayed its submission until May last year. Because, as I said, the bulk of the work of this law, of fifth amendment, had a job already done in advance, especially with regard to its updating in order to bring it into line with the legal changes already made in the general legislation, the LOREG, but also to adapt it to the changes that are taking place in our society, to expand citizens' rights in relation to voting, to give greater transparency to the electoral process and to advance the principles of participation, equality and democracy. As I said, much of the new legislation was already in the draft of the previous Government, such as the ban on candidatures to broadcast pre-election propaganda, the modification of certain causes of ineligibility of members of Parliament to adapt them to the current situation in the public sector of the Autonomous Community, the reduction of expenses for candidatures in elections – freezing the amounts of public subsidies for the upcoming elections, because it is clear that the parties have to be more austere and content in the electoral processes – the limitation of the conduct by the public authorities of institutional campaigns during the electoral period, the purification of the sexist use of language, the clarification of zero voting cases and the removal of obstacles hindering the participation of persons with visual or hearing disabilities. Our group is satisfied with the work that has been done: 12 of the 14 partial amendments that we have tabled have been incorporated into it, and we believe that the initial draft submitted has been improved technically and qualitatively. It's not full satisfaction. We agree to leave the issue of electronic voting out of the law, as it is true that it is an issue that requires prior general regulation in the LOREG, and it is the best way to give full guarantees to procedures that are inevitably to be imposed. But on the contrary, we do not understand that the amendment that we have tabled has not been accepted and that we maintain until today, in order to make real in the electoral candidatures the equality that is preached of men and women. I do not understand that if a group claims that the equality bet is inevitable, it then refuses that the lists have to be made up of 50% by men and women, because that is true equality. I regret that we have missed the opportunity for Euskadi to take the lead on equality and for parties that boast progressives to vote against our amendment. I'm really sorry. Socialists do believe in equality, and as we believe in it we already practice it in our candidatures, which are mandatory in zip, composed of 50% women and 50% men ordered alternately. We are convinced that later this parity will end up being collected also by law, and then some may regret having missed the opportunity to do so today. Nothing more. Thank you very much and, as those who have spoken before me have said, Merry Christmas to all and to all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u66	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Protect the Representative of the EH Group, Mr. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u67	Yes, thank you, ma'am. The Basque Country also introduced 23 corrections, two accepted, two transmitted, and 19 refused to accept them. Those who have been accepted and transmitted have, as has been said here, a technical character. This Kutsu has been willing to be given to this law. That's how PNV and Party Socialists agreed. However, the proposal of the United States of Euscala wanted to go there. He made proposals for political decisions, and they were not admitted. In fact, we had a chance to make our own Autonomical Autonomy law, but the basic law of the state is over. The Sabin Inchaurgage said the same thing 24 years ago, "I must say that we have been reduced to many things for the LAG, and thus we have not been able to penetrate many particular peculiarities for this limitation." This is what happened this time. Euskal Herria Bilduk aurkeztu dituen zuzenketak ildo horretatik doaz eta lege-proiektuaren memoiran jartzen duen bezala "all the modifications that have been made so far have been made and made in order to adapt the Basque Electoral Law to the political and social reality". Law-proiektu honek aukera hauxe galdu of the Euskal Herria Bilduren iritziz, gaur egungo erealidad politico eta sozialera egokitzearena. And there are three or four points for us that we have made essentials and maintained. The first is that of eucaia, which is the treatment of the Basque Sea in the elections of the legislature. There is nothing more to be seen than an arrangement made by a citizen, in which the text of eucalypine and Spanish was different in article 28, and the correct version was decided to be Spanish. It's only to be seen that the presidents of the election tables are asked to choose the headlines of Batxiergo or the like, but that there's no small knowledge required. In this Illustal, the Basque Country has made corrections and maintained them to demand a second term of language. Or, there is nothing to be said of whether the Presidents are to have any knowledge of the rest. I have said at first that this law must be adapted to the political and social condition of the present day. Here again, we think it must adapt itself to the present state. Therefore we have made corrections in this sense: All presidents plan to know two official languages at the moment of election, and the candidates on the lists demand to respect the rate of euphortulation in each country. We owe ourselves to our society, and the citizens have advanced a great deal. Even we who are in politics are obliged to adopt and develop our commitment to the Basque Country and to our language. That's how we defended him and we'll keep defending him. Another important element, for us, is that of invisibility. I'd like to mention it here, among others, to the corruption. The public indignation is unbounded in the corruption, and a democratic system must place its own and set them two against the political corruption. One of these is what the Basque Country exhibits in its correction: for the cocoe, for the traffic of influence, for the unjust use of public funds, for fraud, or, in general, those who are condemned for corruption, can by no means be put into election lists. The people must be clear that there is a control and that it belongs to them to control politics. A third element is what has been said here, and what Mr. Pastor has said is the equality between women and men. The bill of law is received by 4/2005 of February 19. Several positive actions on the part of women, as well as the reasons for securing themselves from being on an election-table, are thus given. And that's good. Now that this is important, there's another important clavage for the Basque Country. 50% of the list being women and 50% being males. We've made one here and we'll do it with the Party Socialist, because of the 50% presence as well as the women's and the men's, they have to go to the zipper too. It is not enough to say that we must go to equality. For this purpose we ought to take measures, and a fundamental measure is this: lists to complete with the zipper system called zipper. We, too, have put it in practice. And finally, two or three things. The bill talks about money as well. The first permanent regulation, due to a financial crisis, has reduced candidates to a significant reduction in the expense of the election. The second permanent regulation has suggested that the subsidies which are to be given to candidates are frozen by the number of seats and elections, and so does it with regard to the loan of the elections and the loans of the propagan. We agree with this, but we plan the same thing for fines. The bill of law anticipates promotions, we plan to adapt to the present economic situation, and we plan to lower the fines a little. In conclusion, there are other subjects, in which we have introduced corrections, such as the mechanism of controlling the government's campaign institutional control, the discussions of general policy with the candidates of the two languages, the voting of the people who are in trouble to see and hear. Two of them have been accepted, and two more movements. So, towards the end, we have seen that progress has been advanced, but not those which we would have desired. So we're going to abstain from this law. And as the other spokesmen have said, even in the name of the Basque Country, we wish you to have a happy Christmas, and also to wish you'd end the old year well and start a new year better. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u68	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre generous. Eubertarians have their word, Mr. Iturate, representing the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, members of the legislature. As some spoke of others, the end or the occasion of this law was precisely to the fundamental legislation of the state, and to the resolutions of the different elections. It was, therefore, a limited change, based on adapting it, and especially on technical considerations. As has been mentioned by others, this law requires an extensive agreement, every election law. We were saying that when the correction of the whole thing was discussed, election laws in general should be followed by extensive agreements, right? And in this sense, even in this change, an extensive agreement has been sought, almost complete, with the Socialist Party, except in a particular subject. Even with Popular Party, we've accepted more than 50% of what they've described. I think, therefore, in this sense, that it is to be congratulated, and I also wish to be grateful for the disposition and passion of our compact with the parliamentary members who have contributed to it. I am not going to discuss the contents of Mr Maneiro's speech, because we have already done so in the whole debate. Today it was another debate, which is what it was playing today. Because we already told you then: some or many of the aspects that corresponded to that debate did not at that time touch, because they correspond to another law, you have said so. It is true that it is good to talk about politics and political affairs in a parliament, but as Santa Teresa said every moment is eager, it has already passed, and now it is time to talk about what it touches, about what we have been talking about in a paper and in committees all this time past. With regard to the amendments that the People's Party is holding, Mr Barrio said that they are basically technical amendments. We do not believe that the amendments of the People's Party facilitate or make more understandable the text; on the contrary. They follow the technique of replicating already established aspects, already regulated in the basic legislation, in the LOREG, or in the judgements of the Electoral Board, in the procedures of the Central Electoral Board or the autonomous electoral boards. And the project opts for referral to the basic law rather than the replica. Because, first of all, for a procedural economic aspect and for a security aspect too, because every time it changes if not, or there are small changes in the rules or changes in the case law of the Electoral Board, we would have to be amending the law, and this does not make much sense, and for that reason we are voting against the amendments maintained. With regard to the amendments that remain alive, with a little more political content, Mr Pastor sang a song on equality, identifying equality and policies of equality with zip lists. It seems to me an excessively simplistic reduction, forgive me the expression, Mr Pastor. I think it is a basically cosmetic operation, I think we have good equality legislation, obviously our Equality Act also, like all laws, requires continuous evaluation and probably also amendments at the time. But I believe that precisely the system that established the Equality Act, which drives the Equality Act, already establishes the measure of positive discrimination, positive action, which is to require that at least 50% of all lists must be made up of women, which is more than what you propose, goes beyond, as a positive action measure goes beyond zip lists. It is therefore right to defend the zipper list, especially because the Socialist Party has made that its icon at the state level, but it is not more egalitarian or more proactive measures in favour of equality a zipper list than the list set out in the current legislation. The more I tell you, the current legislation allows lists exclusively of women, and in fact there is tradition in this country, I refer, for example, to the candidacy that has been presented on more than one occasion under the name of Plazandreok, which are exclusively made up of women, and with the proposal that you make those lists would be impossible, and a feminist party, for example, to which no one would put as opposed to equality, could not be presented, because they would be forced to divide between men and women, and also in a zipper way, as you propose. Because one thing is equality and another is equalityism, and they are different concepts and it is not appropriate to mix them, I think it is well-received and better-received than the Socialist Party's approach. In the words of EH collect, you yourself have mentioned the Sabin Inchaurga, the problem is that the Sabin Inchaurg said this was conditioned by the laws of that time, and now even now, and then he accepted that condition, and now you don't seem to admit it. But this is always the case with EH Collectorius, in this case also of the Basque Alcharity, he wants to break the law of state when he is not in the government, but when he is in the government, he obeys the law of the State. In this sense, however, that which is of the nature of a legal nature is Basic, it is fundamental, and must be admitted. As for the professions of language. We've discussed that, haven't we? To be elected is a fundamental right. And since the general suffrage has been established, I believe that democracy has improved, that democracy is more extensive, and that it is with your planning to return to the census, every citizen has a right to vote as well as to be chosen. The universal suffrage is called active and passive. And you can't tear a person's right because he's asked to be the president, not to be the president, not to say what you don't, but what appears in your correction, not even to be a member of the legislature. Another may ask, I do not know what degree of study it is to be a member of the legislature, to represent the people, when Eseranza Aguirre said, that it ought to be according to the rent, that the number of votes should be according to the rent; Universal suffrage is a democratic conquest and I understand the approach of defending linguistic normalization that hides behind its approach, but I do not think it is correct, the instrument is not the electoral law and the instrument is not to condition a fundamental right of the citizen, such as passive universal suffrage, to a certain linguistic requirement. With regard to the ineligibility for conviction for crimes related to political corruption, it is absolutely unnecessary, because it is covered by the basic rules for conviction. Another thing, in the amendments put forward by Mr Maneiro, who does not ask for ineligibility for conviction, but simply for mere imputation, is something that the champions of the judicialization of politics, who have filed a lot of complaints against numerous public offices, which have been acquitted, because we would be violating, not only the presumption of innocence, but conditioning a fundamental right, such as that of passive suffrage. To conclude, as all others have said, by the agreement that has been concluded. Be glad we test three laws today. It is true that this legislature is not very fast marked, but we have at this moment 19 laws project in hand, instead of testing it at 14 yet, which is often said by the government in its season, and here by the army of the Arrogian. In any case, it's about 2016, to see if we're more quick about 2016. And nothing more than wishing you all, those who have had a good 2015 that 2016 is just as good, and those who have had it a little worse, for it is more adventurous for you 2016. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u70	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Now for answers, who wants to participate? Mr. Maneiro. Anyone else?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u71	Thank you, President. For completing one of the arguments and claims I made in my first round. Indeed, in addition to demanding, once again, the establishment of the single constituency, in addition to claiming once again the establishment of open lists, both for Euskadi and for the whole of Spain, in addition to claiming that, in fact, councillors or mayors cannot be, in addition, autonomous or national deputies, and in addition to demanding decisive measures to combat this scourge called political transfuguism, in fact, I have not cited two other measures that we are proposing and believe that we are proposing with all the reason of the world. In particular, those accused, accused of political corruption, cannot go on electoral lists and those accused of terrorist offences cannot do so either. As far as the first paragraph is concerned, it seems to me to be an absolute shame, an example that has recently been given, an accused for something that can be described as political corruption, which was on the lists of the People's Party as number two by Segovia, it turns out that the entire electoral campaign has been missing, while the PP political party in this case did ask him to leave the list or while journalists of high status were trying to contact this person. He's a person who's been missing the last 10 days of campaigning, even though he was being investigated, and today he's a national deputy. This is an absolute shame to end. It cannot be that defendants, persecuted for political corruption, appear on electoral lists and much less that these people are finally elected. If this matter cannot be incorporated into the law, what must be demanded of the political parties is that they prevent such characters from coming to represent us. It is an absolute shame that I did not mention in the first round, but I would like to quote: those accused of political corruption should be outside, not only the institutions, but also outside the electoral lists themselves. Let them defend themselves before justice! I think it would be a measure of cleanliness, of democratic hygiene. I also believe that this is something that is perfectly claimed by the majority of citizens and that, moreover, by the way, some of the political parties that allow these practices, then, in certain disputes or debates, defend these practices which are not finally put into effect. Therefore, I too claim broad agreements, but broad agreements not to leave things as they are, but to change them, to truly regenerate politics in Spain. With regard to the Socialist Group's amendment and the famous zip lists. It seems to us very correct that 50% of men and women are claimed to be present. We think it's right. It is already perfectly reflected in the law. But what the Socialist Group is proposing to us is not that, but the zip lists, which, for example, as has already been said, would prevent three women from leading the list, and this seems to us to be a step backwards. Better, in any case, Mr. Pastor, open lists. You have defended them, the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party has said so publicly. But it's not about saying these things that are so interesting in the talks, it's not about saying these things that are so interesting in the election period, it's not about campaigning, it's not about being governed by the telecracy, it's about changing things for real through the parliamentary vote. And here you can change those things, not in the debates, not in the interviews, not in the lying rallies of some. By the way of the facts. These measures I have heard them defend not only UPyD, but especially in recent times other very powerful political parties: open lists, fight against corruption, equal voting, etc., etc. Practice it, apply it. How? With your vote. That is the way to change things and to regenerate democracy. Less marketing and more politics. Merry Christmas. And above all, do something that I will do in the next few days, rest.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u72	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Popular? Mr. Aguirre? Not you. Pastor didn't. Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u73	Yes, just for answering Mr. Maneiro. He said in his first speech that he has presented this series of initiatives on many occasions and that in all of them he has been left alone against everyone. Well, any normal person would wonder if he is wrong, and Mr. Maneiro, however, pertinent as drought at times in some parts of the world, considers that we are wrong all others, all others, including the vast majority of the citizens of Euskadi and the State, that we are wrong and that you are right. In any case, I think that if you think that, you have very deserved and also very need those holidays or that rest you are going to take. And furthermore, if you announce that you are going to rest, I am convinced that everything else, including the Government, is going to rest much more. So, with that wish, thank you all very much and Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u74	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. The discussion is over and the vote is made together by the Mistto-UPyD team all the reserved corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 1, the opposites, 65; the whites, 0; abstainments, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u75	Therefore, these corrections have not been accepted. All the corrections which the Basque Popular Groups have reserved are agreed on the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 9; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstaines, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u76	So they didn't accept it. The vote is made for Section 33 of the Basque Groups. We can vote. Yeah, I'm sorry. It's the Socialists, isn't it? Sociists, yes. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u77	Since it's soup, we'll vote again. We vote for Section 21. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u78	As equality follows, we'll leave it for a future vote. They go to vote together with the reserved EH Collect corrections, except for the correction of number 42. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters; 21; counters, 53; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u79	So they weren't allowed. The parts that have been reserved together are put to the vote: 1, 7, 8, 11, 13, 15 to 17, 20, 22 to 24, 28, 32, 36, 37, 41, 43, 50, 54, 56, 57, 59, and 62. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 43; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; Abstations, 31.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u80	So they're accepted. The parts of a judgment which have no correction at all, viz. 9, 10, 10, 13, and 14, 19, 25 to 27, 29 to 31, 33, 38 to 40, 42, 44 to 53, 55, 58, 60, first and last supplementary regulations. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 52; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions 22.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u81	So they're accepted. Basque Socialists report 26th, says the explanation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u82	Since it's a draw, we'll vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u83	It's a draw, so you leave it for another one. The correction of the EH Collect Group is on the vote. 42th, he said, "That's what he did to the explanation." We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters; 21; counters, 53; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u84	So he didn't accept it. After that, they vote together, the explanation and the name of the law. We can vote. Yeah, we can't vote. Still, a suggestion to the spokesman. We've stopped two articles in a draw for the next plenocese. The next pep would be in February. How about we draw now? But the spokesman... Urruzuno, zu? Teenagers? Teenagers? Don't you? Oh, it was missing... Nerea, yourself. Bai? The tiebreaker, do it now instead of leaving it for February. Come on. That's the law onartuko dugu. We vote again. He goes to vote... Yeah. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u85	If we had a pleno in the next week, we'd discuss it there and it would be over. We're going to February, half leaving the law. If that's how you like it, we leave it like this... (Response) Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Athea ireki's on the dago. Lehengo gauza, hori. Is Borja here? You're all lehenengo. [[Berber]] This must be finished and I have to hire another guy from here. Well, this is a bit irregular, but we're here for Christmas. I cut it off, I look like I'm done with this, and I'm hiring a new one to argue and accept the law. Well, the only point in the theme list is, I don't know, to decide the draw of the law. I'll ring the bell. [[Berber]] Let's start with the vote. That's the vote for the 33th Socialist team, the 21st section correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 37; the counters, 38; white, 0; abstinence, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u86	So he didn't accept it. Then we'll vote for Section 21. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 52; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions 22.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u87	So it's accepted. The Euscalia Socialist claims to vote on the number 26th of the team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 37; the counters, 38; white, 0; abstinence, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u88	So he didn't accept it. The explanation and the name of the law are put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; for 53, contrary to 0; white, 0; abstentions 22.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-23.u89	Therefore the Law of the Institutions of the Union is approved for the fifth time. Then I'll read an institutional statement. Please be quiet. The institutional representation of the fugitive's crisis. The Basque parliament has accepted an institutional expression on the crisis of the fugitives and the international emigricators on the international day. You have full text and this is the following summary: "This Europe is now facing one of the greatest incidents of the fugitives which have ever occurred in history. In the year 2015, more than a million persons have arrived at the shores of Europe. "Because of the active collective struggles which are taking place in Syria, Iraq, Libya, Afghanistan, thousands of men have demanded protection in other states from violence, strife, and persecution; they make very dangerous voyages, and often lose their lives in this attempt. At least 3,500 people have died in the sea. In the meantime, human rights are violated by thousands of other people, and are extremely severe in the wants which are injured in this migration process. "The Basque Parliament, gathered together, and all the political groups that make up it, want to show our most absolute solidarity with those people who are forced to leave everything they have in search of protection. We must strive to build a society in which all people have the freedom and the opportunity to seek their protection in order to develop their full potential through equal and respectful treatment of human rights and international legality. "As regards everything that has been suggested to you, the Basque Parliament: "He condemns all the fundamental violations and damages of human rights, especially in the case of the weakest groups, that is to say, children. "Consider it essential to continue strengthening search and rescue operations in the Mediterranean, as saving lives remains the priority at this time. "It urges the Government of Spain, through all existing channels, to call on the European Union for a coordinated and consensual response with the Member States to accelerate the process of social, legal and economic care for political asylum seekers in EU countries. "He believes that the active and co-ordination of public powers, institutions, social agents, and citizens is a vital element in order to ensure the reception and integration of people moved. The power of combining the rights of the refugees of the fugitives efficiently confirms the commitment that our Autonomy Ercolan, our health aid, our housing, education, and social passion, is to facilitate their social and economic integration in the future. Since the list of subjects has been exhausted, I look upon the whole meeting as an end. And I too, happy Christmas and wish you all a Happy New Year. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and five.
