ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, we shall call the distant confession of the lawmate of the Oiang. [[It's in.]] Single point in theme list: "The general discussion of politics, of June 30th, 193rd June, 193th, 193rd of the parliamental Rule." On account of the article in 195 of the parliamental Rule, the discussion will begin with the President's speech. Once the announcement has been finished, the meeting will be interrupted until two-thirty in the afternoon, as the sheriff's commission has decided. So, you know, the president's got a word for it. Any time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u1	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chiefs of departments, ladies and gentlemen, good days to all. We want to begin this discussion about universal politics at a moment important for the Basques, a critical moment from the economic, political, and institutional point of view. I'll introduce my explanation into two parts. First, I'll report the main initiative that we've developed to fulfill the government program. In the second place, I will show the initiative we shall develop in order to give a new impulse to our three principal commitments: to revive economy and employment, to promote peace and partnership, to agree to a new political status for the Basque future. First of all, we have a solid basis that will lead us to a situation of more hope. Our assets are the stability of the institutions, the beginning of economic convalescence, and the progress of the course of regulating peace and fellowship. Today we look forward to the future to propose what we shall do, but we must consider how we have reached this situation. The foundation of excitement is solid. From the point of view of the funding, we've done a lot of effort to unite the taxes in the past events. From the point of view of society, "person targets" is a strong project to protect those who are most in need. It is solid to look at in the eyes of the economy, to reinforce it, and to recover it, because the beginning of its recovery is already there. She's doing a song called "MékMolly." We haven't finished our work, at all events, but we're on the right track. If we've had reasons to be more efficient, we've always had realism. In Europe, in our circle of reference, we have great tension. A terrible humanitarian crisis is happening, we'll have to prove our capacity for reception and solidarity. Ger's victims are on their way to Europe for security and better future. The crisis of exile will continue to be a challenge, humanitarian and solidarium Europe will have to respond in concert. With this we live the moments of economic uncertainty. China is a proof that even the second economy in the world is affecting the economy of America and Europe. We hope to maintain that tendency to strengthen economics. We're predicting a raw Euskadin product that 2,5% this year will increase and that jobs will be on job %1,6% of the full-time jobs. In 2016, the growth will be 2,5%, and the job generation will go up to 7%. If we hold our current conditions, we'd get the rate of unemployment below 10 percent. That's the main challenge, raising and creating high-quality jobs. As to the state of politics, at the end of the year 2015, we'll have two major elections. On Sunday, the Catalurians will show what they want, respecting what is decided by those elections, these two appointments may exercise a great influence on the political jurisdiction of the State. Due to the general elections of December, a new government will be created, and we hope that we may begin a new epoch between the Basques and the State. We've been on behalf of the government since the first day. In this law we have advanced on the road to normalize political relations, and have established important institutions of agreement. The co-worker has been the indispensable instrument of building the future, both among the institutions and the politics, and should remain so. Our organizations will have to establish economic recovery through budgets, positive and cohesion of work. This is the means to continue to penetrate into private public contracts, which are indispensable to strengthen growth, and to ensure the conditions of the social condition of well-being. We have to work together. Today we look at the future with more confidence and hope. Yes, we are engaged to give three axes in the government program, the management field; to be strict in handling and fulfilling the principles of stability; to guarantee basic services (succession, health, and social protection); to restore economy and to create employments. In December 2012, I observed that the crisis was going to be very severe first and foremost. I also foretold in this second stage, that 2015 and 2016 years, the crisis might begin. We have undertaken this end, but we cannot deny that there will be difficulties and difficulties. The most important thing right now is how and how we're going to get out of the crisis. Looking at the future, we need a country strategy, and it's absolutely necessary that all the teams join that strategy. We share the strategy with which human development is bearable, placed in the four columns of Europe 20. human development, economic growth, intelligent growth and bearable growth. This is where you're going. Our North is a strategy of human development and inclusiveness, which places commitment to people on the frontline of government action. Health, education, social policies, equality, culture and security are the cornerstones of our human development. A growth strategy based on industry, modernization of infrastructure, internationalization, support for economic sectors and small and medium-sized enterprises. Growth oriented towards the generation of quality employment. Smart growth based on innovation, economic specialization, technological development and basic research of excellence. A financially and environmentally sustainable strategy. This is the strategy for all departments. Allow me below a summary of its main initiatives under the governance programme. Transparency and good governance. Essential values for the proper functioning of the Administration and to generate confidence in the citizenry. In an unprecedented experience in our environment, we have an ethical commission that has issued thirty-four resolutions in response to consultations by senior government officials and complaints from third parties. All of them are posted on the web. The Basque Government is an administration backed at the highest level by Transparency International. We are committed to observing the provisions of the State Transparency and Good Government Act. Before the end of the year, we will refer to this Parliament the draft law on transparency and citizen participation, as well as the law on the organisation and functioning of the Basque public sector. Both texts are drafted taking into account the contributions of the House groups. In institutional policy we work to reach the maximum consensus in municipal law. The project was referred to the House a year ago, and has entered the last phase of processing. The aim is to strengthen Basque municipalism, giving it the highest level of autonomy and institutional strength. The municipal law includes the creation of the Basque Public Policy Council. This forum is an opportunity to articulate public services, clarify competencies, coordinate policies and improve efficiency. We have referred to Parliament the Law on the Management of the Legal Service and the Law on Foundations. In a few months we will be forwarding the Public Employment Bill, once the new Public Service Council issues its report. Within the framework of the Public Innovation Plan, the Aurrerabide model of advanced management places us in the foreground of the single window. This year we will sign the interoperability agreements with the outside parliaments to share the databases. In Justice, our commitment is to advance the modernization and efficiency of this public service in Basque. We have launched the new judicial offices of Vitoria-Gasteiz and Barakaldo; the next step will be the judicial office of Donostia-San Sebastián. With regard to free legal aid, we work with professional colleges to adjust the applicable rule and improve the service so that people without resources can access justice. I highlight the momentum of restorative justice and the promotion of collaborative law. The Youth Justice Plan, which we have just approved, incorporates the suggested improvements, and its success will be based on the educational function. We also remain involved in open government policies through Irekia. We encourage the participation and co-design of public policies. As a demonstration of this commitment, Irekia in participation, and Emakunde in equality, have received this year's recognition from the United Nations. I am now focusing on competitiveness and economic development. In the years 2012 and 2013 all economic indicators were of negative sign; the year 2015 has meant the change of sign. In the second quarter of this year, gross domestic product grew by 2.7%, the industrial output index by 3.2%, and business confidence grew by 2.1 percentage points. The trend is for growth. Moderate, but growth. We are cautious, we assume the responsibility of favouring the positive turn in the Basque industrial sector. Our bet is the digitization of the industry, the Basque Industry 4.0 project. We bet on specialisation in the energy, advanced manufacturing and bioscience-health sectors, in the European line RIS3. The Internationalization Consortium is working to open up new markets, with priorities in Europe, the United States and emerging countries. We maintain support for the strategy of internationalization of companies. We have supported 1,838 initiatives over the past year; the Global Lehian programme has responded to 357 actions; we have supported seven new productive deployments abroad; we have supported 400 initiatives of sectoral associations and clusters; 400 companies have participated in the twenty trade missions with chambers of commerce; we have supported 500 diagnoses and plans for diversifying trade destinations. These data support the dynamism and effort of Basque companies. And we also work through Invest in Basque Country to attract foreign investment, and these are the results: in 2014, five companies with 49 million investments, 480 jobs created or maintained; in 2015, in what we carry out in 2015, there are already ten new initiatives insured, an investment of 87 million, and 720 jobs. We strengthen collaboration with entrepreneurs and support for Basque start-ups. We will strengthen Spri's external network and create two new programmes to support internationalisation: Interlehian, and Landhome. Technology is a country bet, and we are going to launch the new Euskadi 2020 digital agenda. We are generating an economic future, an industrial future. We can see that he's professionalizing the first sector. In this country, the work which this legislature has done is remarkable, for it will admit the law of the state of peasant women; it is a precursor project. Youthin's program has been very good results to give the young people a chance to get into the sector. We're creating our own brands for fishing and agriculture. We've created local fishing action group, and in the next few months the operating fishing program will start to start at 20. Thanks to touristism, economics, and Basque Countrymark, they're strengthening. We have high-quality tourism. Number of foreign visitors has gone up 13%. It makes 6% of the raw product, and this year it's 10 percent raised. Turism helps our merchant. We reinforce this sector and value it, encouraged by a special euscal trade. We believe in companies, the example of the competitive Basque Company and of the value. We're on behalf of the public business strategy. We're sponsoring innovation programs in the subordinates. We're trying to get the workers to share more in the corporate decisions and capital. In order to improve competitiveness and funding initiatives, we also protect them. We're sponsoring programmes for support of families and programmes from generation to generation, and alliances between companies. It is the basis of our progress to help those who create companies and wealth, for they are indispensable to support our system of well-being. In fact, one of the essential elements of all this is to help to guarantee social shock. In accordance with our motto "person" we confirm that our priority has been a guarantee of social policy. This year we have a deal with our social service wallet. It's not enough, but we're working with all the organizations to challenge double. the strategic work, and the map of social services, to be fully extended through a financial company tool. With great effort, we have given the priority of rent to secure incomes along with the programmes to face poverty. I must confess that all institutions have done a great deal of work, as well as the entities of the third sector. To ensure these policies, strictness and control are very important. We must remain in a position to know the deserts and strengthen the trust in society. We have to improve the management of the profession, I admit, that's what we're doing. The profession ought to distinguish two parts: On the one hand the attention which is paid to the management and laboring officers of the country, and to the special management and collective subsidies of the revenue, that is to say, to widows and pensioners. We must continue to improve our organization, and thus he has just accepted the first list of jobs. We know that employment of quality is the principal source of dignity and cohesion of society. I repeat: We're working hard on work. The unemployment is going down, that's true, but there are still 145,000 people registered in the profession. Our priority is to answer all of us. In order to accomplish this purpose, two years ago, we accepted the plan for the Economic and Ecomomic Suspertius, the Socilist Party of the Basque Party and the Espertalia. The entire plan will be a total of 6.475 million euros, with budget resources and abals inside, which are always economicizing and producing 32,000 jobs. We're starting to see the first results of this plan. In two years, we're gonna mobilize $4,300 million in a number of programmes, which enables us to activate jobs and create 32,800 jobs. We have the challenge of facilitating the integration of young people and people over the age of 45. A reference example is the local and regional employment plans. I also highlight the agreement between all the institutions to promote entrepreneurship and support the creation of new businesses. With regard to public housing policy, I would like to begin by highlighting the entry into force of the Housing Act in the morning. Its launch could be conditional on the decision of the Spanish Government on the filing of an appeal for unconstitutionality. We do not accept this resource, because it is up to this Parliament to decide on the design of the policies necessary for our country. The Basque Government is adapting its policy to the new determinations of the law. In addition, we are promoting the two strategic axes of the master plan: facilitating access to rented housing, and a new model of urban rehabilitation and regeneration, prioritizing improvements in accessibility and energy efficiency. Examples of these activities are the rental of 314 housing units in Zabalgana, or the comprehensive rehabilitation project of the Coronación de Vitoria-Gasteiz neighbourhood, which the European Union has just confirmed. I conclude this paragraph with a reference to family policy. Euskadi is one of the oldest societies in our environment, and has a serious problem in the population replacement rate. Our commitment is to bring a new strategy for supporting families and investing in children to the institutions as a whole. We share the need to promote measures that will enable families to have the children they want, which do not have to be limited to those they can, conditioned by their economic situation. I then turn to the management of finance and public finances. Economic rigour and improved efficiency in the administration have been two working principles of this Government, which began the legislature with the reduction of its own structure. We continue to take steps towards a more rational and efficient public sector. The new institutional reality offers us an opportunity to address public resizing from a collaborative perspective. I recognize that this is a permanent challenge for our Government, in which we must continue to move forward and improve. We are committed to fiscal consolidation and disciplined deficit control policies. We have achieved economic, fiscal and budgetary stability; we have also reached an agreement with financial institutions to meet the financing needs of companies. Agreements have been reached with outlaws to develop economic recovery actions and investment projects. In the field of taxation, comprehensive reform has been promoted in the Basque Country. We have reached an agreement with the Spanish Government to incorporate new taxes into the Concert system, and the first joint plan to combat tax fraud in the Basque Country is under way. We have agreed on deficit limits until 2017, and the Basque Government maintains the objective of fiscal consolidation on the horizon of achieving a scenario of fiscal stability in 2018. It's not enough. We need to continue to optimize our resources. Economic recovery is incipient, and is subject to risk. We know that we come from a deep crisis in which not all needs (not all needs) have been met optimally, a crisis that we have not yet overcome. Rigor in management and prioritization is essential. We will continue to work to maintain public services, social policies and economic recovery projects. That is, an exercise in political commitment from realism. I highlight the Government's legislative effort to establish the economic and financial pillars, with rules such as the Basque Statistical Plan Act (approved), the draft law on savings banks and bank foundations (remitted to this House), the regulation of the grant scheme of the Autonomous Community (draft law to be adopted in a few months). I then focus on education, essential public service and guaranteeing a society with capabilities, values and future. Our signs of identity are consensus, stability and equity. The search for agreement and the defence of self-government have been a constant in our educational policy. Important decisions have been preceded by processes of participation; thus, we are making progress in the development of the Heziberri 2020 plan, we have an educational-pedagogical model that emphasizes that the student acquires the necessary skills for life (to learn to be, to live, to communicate or to have initiative), in addition to acquiring skills such as science, technology, linguistics, mathematics, social, artistic or motor. This model is reflected in the curriculum decrees of the different stages of education, whose processing is very advanced. For the first time all educational, social and political actors have had the opportunity to participate in the elaboration of a curriculum decree that is the responsibility of the Basque Government. This is the starting point for starting work leading up to a Basque education law. In the field of vocational training, Euskadi has a long tradition of change and adaptation to the needs of enterprises. I highlight the following achievements: promotion of dual vocational training and implementation of individualised programmes for each enterprise; innovation projects implemented with small and medium-sized enterprises; entrepreneurship training for 10,000 pupils; creation of this course of 85 enterprises through vocational training centres; internationalisation projects with 25 countries; and collaboration with the Lehen Aukera programme. This development of vocational training is reinforced by the commitment to higher education and university research: we promote the university's own role in research, scientific and technological improvement (we have approved the University Plan); we are committed to the recovery and attraction of talent and the creation of opportunities for those who feel attracted by our research and knowledge centres; we support the country's research capacity through the strategic work of the Ikerbasque Foundation and the BERC network of centres. This Government is making a bet on linguistic coexistence. We have approved the Euskera Strategic Agenda. The Euskara's governmental language is a promoter and permanent policy by the Euscara's Stratal Age. The presence of the Basque Man, and the strength of his forces, plan new challenges. Society has changed, it is more eloquent, it has changed the sozygic environment. All this makes it possible that the greatest challenge of euphora should be used. In this sense, the use of Euscary for the Fifth Planet, the fundamental curriculum of the adult euphort, composed according to the frame of Europe, and a great multitude of compacts and contributions. Equal opportunities for the use of the two official languages and linguistic freedom must be effective. We advance thanks to the involvement and attitude of citizens in favour of the Basque people, the commitment of the public authorities, the use of self-government in favour of the Basque people, consensus, public-private collaboration, the effort of many people, the attitude of thousands and thousands of Basquesun berris. All this has placed the euskera on the path of sustained growth. Such sustained growth needs to be sustainable. We will continue to move towards greater linguistic equality and better coexistence. Next, I shall speak of the doctrine strategy, which renders us universal euphoria, which strengthens our personality, from a constant creation. We combine these three aspects: To help the production fund, to escape undergrowth, and to encourage the culture industry. It's about how the Digital Age options go deep. I particularly mean Donostia 2016, which is the project of European Cultura Capital, and we must consider it a challenge in all the capitals. 'Tis a responsibility to all of us to transmigrate Euskadi's image in Europe, and it is a chance to make us know ourselves among the nations. In addition to this, Guggenheim Bilbao's Museum has been restored to life after renewing the organizational ceremony, it is more attractive in the nation and has torn all the marks into the number of visitors. We have deployed the international site of contemporary culture, the center of Tabakal, of art and culture. On the other hand, I want to highlight Dantzerti, the top-level center of dramatic art and dance that started this week. With these drivers, we must establish our system of culture with the network of public libraries. Public libraries are connected to a single network, and the library, thanks to the project, will be plunged into a digital period. The fundamental column of an advanced society is to guarantee security. Without certainty the quality of life decreases, and the confidence which strengthens economic activity is lost. The work of thousands of men and women working on every side of security in the Public Security Plan has been collected. Euskadi is a very secure people now, for in recent years the rates of crimes and falseties are being lowered. Euskadi is a reasonably safe country today, crime and misconduct rates are falling. Today there are more ertzainas working on the street, their presence is evidence, with more than two hundred simultaneous patrols with illuminated blue bridges, a network of twenty-five police stations, more than forty points of citizen attention, or the permanent service of traffic patrols. I recognize that in road safety we will have to strengthen our policies, social awareness and inter-agency collaboration. This legislature has begun the development of a new police model in the Ertzaintza that recovers its founding spirit with the accumulated experience of more than thirty years, liberated from the terrorist threat of ETA and aimed at the constant renewal of police intelligence. We have been committed to modernizing the organization, lightening its structure, and implementing effective and efficient management. The Ertzaintza is strengthened by generational renewal. Last week, the 121 students of the twenty-fourth promotion joined us, and we will do our utmost to prevent the Ministry of Finance's appeal against the call for the twenty-fifth promotion. We will continue to work to incorporate into the Arkaute Academy the 250 people already selected before the end of the year. And I announce that in 2016 we will call for a new promotion to ensure the maintenance of an Ertzaintza composed of 8,000 agents. It is unacceptable for the Government of Spain to attempt to limit the capacity to incorporate new agents, when this Parliament has committed itself to the 8,000-ertzaina staff. On the other hand, we have launched the preventive security plan in the face of the threat of radical Islamism in Europe. We do so in close cooperation with the Islamic communities of Euskadi, who are also concerned about this situation. We continue to improve collaboration with municipalities, firefighting services, civil protection groups and public and private security agencies. This collaboration is with the rest of the security forces, but is particularly relevant with the local police. I stress the need for joint work in the judicial sphere, or with the judicial sphere and other police bodies. We will continue to call for greater direct participation in the areas of international police coordination. I want to talk about domestic and gender-based violence. It is a priority not only for Ertzaintza: it is an unacceptable focus of violence, which we must combat by promoting equality through Emakunde's policies. Violence against women is a structural problem, the most brutal expression of inequality. It needs a multidimensional response, working on the effects of violence against women and its causes. We are working to overcome the structural problem of inequality and continue to advance in a society in which women and men have equal rights. Equality policies, coordinated by Emakunde, affect all areas (education, health, economy, employment, social services, security or urban planning). A reference example is the work with the advertising and media sector to establish a code of ethics and self-regulation for non-sexist advertising and communication. I refer below to health policies. This is a public service and universal priority for the Basque Government. Euskadi is the community that invests the most in this service, 1,568 euros per person, a figure above the European average. Money well invested, because Euskadi has been located for the first time as the community that best health services offer to citizens. We have launched the Health Plan 2020, approved and evaluated by this Parliament. We have completed and developed programs such as breast cancer screening, colorectal cancer or metabolopathies, also prevention projects in relation to minors and alcohol consumption, or the addiction bill. Euskadi has one of the most complete and modern vaccine calendars in Europe. The last addition was the pneumococcal vaccine on July 1. We're still improving the equipment. In the last twelve months investments have been made in the health centres of Mungia, Alonsotegi and Zestoa; magnetic resonance units of Zumarraga and Donostia; isolation unit of infectious diseases of Donostialdea; external consultation building of Goierri-Alto Urola, or emergency observation area of Bidasoa. The work of the Urduliz and Eibar Hospital is also being carried out, and the plan for the expansion of the Arab University Hospital has been initiated. The Government is aware of the challenges we face in maintaining the quality of this service, due to the progressive ageing of the population, associated with the increase in the prevalence of chronic diseases. Osakidetza is being prepared by integrating primary care services with hospitals through the creation of integrated health organizations (IHOs), and also works in a more coordinated way with social services. We have launched a public job offer of 1,014 jobs. Giving maximum stability to employment in Osakidetza is a priority; its professionals are our main asset. We made a huge investment in new technologies: the implementation of the electronic recipe has been a milestone, with the processing of more than 50 million recipes. Another milestone is the plan to improve telephone care, both in advance appointment and in medical care, with more than 2 million consultations this year. We have taken a decisive step in transparency and information to the patient. The Osakidetza health folder provides each patient with access to clinical documentation and waiting lists. Health care is growing in Basque, we have more professionals with an accredited linguistic profile. We advance in the choice of the language of care or bilingual clinical history. We are making a stake in the generation of value and economic opportunities, and one of the three areas of smart specialization in Euskadi is health biosciences. The health research and innovation strategy has projects such as Biodonostia or Biocruces, already accredited as a health research institute and whose works are already in progress. I now turn to environmental policy and territorial development. In this area, Euskadi makes a huge investment effort for the modernisation of the transport and mobility network, especially railways. In Bilbao we are in the final phase of metro line 3, fundamental for the connection of Otxarkoaga, Txurdinaga, Zurbaran or Matiko. We also advanced in the definitive design of the Old Helmet station. In Donostia this year the construction of the Loiola-Herrera station begins, and the design of the Herrera-Altza connection, which will be tendered at the end of next year, is completed. We also advance in the railway variant of Eibar, which will enter into service in a few months. In Vitoria-Gasteiz, in collaboration with the city council, we bet on integrated mobility, the extension of the tram to the south and the incorporation of the neighborhoods of Salburua and Zabalgana into the multimodal scheme. We are improving the Basque railway network: suppression of the crossing at the level and new station of Urduliz, suppression of the passage at the level of Mendizur in Bedia, improvement of the station of Hendaia, and steps at the level of Pradera in Zaratamo and Santa Clara in Zarautz. We have achieved the European Union's investment commitment to the high-speed train, and we maintain the 2019 horizon committed by the Spanish Government. This week we have led the arrival to the capitals. On the other hand, the future of airports is essential. I'd like to highlight the request and commitment we've made for being 24 hours operational. We're improving the logistics of the Basque ports and we're trying to integrate with Junkis and Arasur Plataforms. The logistic system is indispensable to manufactures and also to attract commercial activity. We're on the way to the integrated transport system and we're going to get a single card in public transport. I repeat, that in this part of the legislature it is necessary to assume the jurisdictions derived from the Basques in the field of transportation. Let us remember that we had been on the point of signing an agreement with the former Spanish Government about the transfers of the train. But with the current government, nothing has been advanced, and they have no interest in advancing. Now I'm talking about protecting the environment and the anti-violence change. Our environmental policy is strictly based on the protection of resources, which are always compatible with economic activity and activity. This year, we've accepted the Euscal Plan in the opposite part of the climate change. Eukadin has to be reviewed the environmental law, and in this review we'll have to watch the environment and develop the green economy without ever forgetting our experience of treatment of the debris or washing the soil. The artifacts for the organization of the country were adopted in the year 1997, and we are now showing them. The time for planning the country layout and the future challenges. Let us now consider the subject of external intercourse. Euskadi's future is inserted into a global environment. We'll improve our organization's relations between the nations. Since my American president, we have made meetings with Ambassadors 146 of 82 countries. With this we take part in the councils of the European ministers, open to the autonomy community, and also in the works of the Ecofin. Our presence is important, but it's not enough. We have completed the 2020 strategic plan of the Eurogreion. We're just trying to figure out what proposal we're going to propose to the Junker plan in order to fund development and development projects. It is in this circle that the challenge to make a match for Navarro, who already participates in the Pyrenian Labour Society. I'd like to announce an important event. The Basque Council will be here on the 7th of Gallivity, Gasteo, October 7th. Euscalic community will be the greatest sign of force in the world. He'll be able to work closer and closer thanks to Basque Global Network Prize. In this international area, the humanist crisis that we are living in Europe has confirmed our origin based on the policy of co-workers. I must confess that, due to the economic crisis, our power has been reduced, but our vocation cannot be doubted. The greatest effort in our co-operation has been made in our own Autonomy. We train 40 million to make investments. Next month we'll introduce a new humanitarian emergency package and share 2 million euros, especially in Syria, but in other places where there's a crisis. So far, in the first part, I've introduced you to the most important initiative that has taken place in the Eucomun action. I'll hit the second part. A new push for Basques. We collected 625 initiatives and 14 strategic plans in the government program. All these resolutions and plans are our commitment, our promise to obey: the commitment to strengthen the economy, and to create employment, the commitment to the person who aims at it, to strengthen peace and co-operation, and to fix the foundations of the new political state of the future. We work on a new impulse for Euskadi on our three axes of action. I start with economic recovery and employment. The challenge is to continue building an economic future, that is, human development and sustainable growth; a development that supports economic recovery and quality employment and ensures solidarity. This boost requires continuing with the modernization of the territory, culminating investments in public transport, sanitary equipment, education and university; further progress in technological development. We are not going to take a step backwards in the welfare social state that we have managed to consolidate even in the toughest years of the crisis. This new impetus is underpinned by three strategic priorities: innovation, employment, and the Basque Country strategy. The first pillar is innovation. A competitive and balanced economy is built on the basis of innovation. We have addressed the reorganization of the R & D & i system with greater public-private consultation, and strengthened the evaluation and efficiency criteria and the implementation of an intelligent specialization strategy. In this year we have increased investment in technological innovation. I recognize that we need to recover investment even further, and this is the commitment made by the Science, Technology and Innovation Council last week. The Council has positively assessed the deployment of the RIS3 Smart Specialisation Strategy, and we have decided that it is time to regain momentum to place Euskadi at the forefront of innovation in Europe. We are aware of this need, because we are laying the foundations for the fourth industrial revolution in Euskadi, with advanced manufacturing. This year we have launched three new programs, with 5.2 million, for companies and industries that are advancing in digitisation. We will promote scientific and university research of excellence. We have strategic research projects related to energy. We will collide with Scotland, in the Vanguard network, a European marine renewable energy project to be developed in hostile environments. We have signed a partnership agreement for the development of local suppliers and the promotion of technological opportunities in the field of oil and gas. We work with the private sector to launch gas-powered projects in maritime transport. We participate in bio-health research. And this is not an exclusive task of the Government: it belongs to all institutions, universities and research centres of excellence, technological centres, companies and society. The Government will make the added effort it needs, and double the budget growth rate envisaged in the Science, Technology and Innovation Plan for 2016. The second pillar, our key priority, is employment, especially youth employment. Retrieving employment is our central goal. We're better than in December 2012, when we started the legislature. We have made progress, although it is not enough. I announce that next year's budget will boost employment plans, with particular attention to the youth group and the long-term unemployed. I am moving forward with a commitment to increase the Lehen Aukera programme budget by 50%, in order to promote the first work experience through the encouragement of work contracts in practice. We will also increase care and training programmes linked to the recruitment of long-term unemployed. The third pillar of the new momentum is the Basque Country strategy. The future of Euskadi depends on our ability to have our own space and role in the global world. A shared vision of Basque Country is needed, based on public-private collaboration. The opportunities are within reach of our hand: Euskal Hiria, with Basque capitals cooperating and united by the high-speed train; the integration of ports, airports, logistics platforms and transport networks, in a combined logistics and connectivity; Basque strategy against climate change and for sustainability; bet on Basque Industry 4.0 technology and the Basque digital agenda; smart specialization; internationalisation of our universities; academic adaptation to the European environment and training programmes abroad; boost to the Euroregion in the European Atlantic arc, with the announced incorporation of Navarra; Donostia European Cultural Capital 2016, and projection of our cultural institutions. Euskadi Basque Country is a country of ethics, a country of hospitality and co-workers, a country of social consciousness. This country offers the offer of its culture and of the best personality. In like manner, Euskadi Basque Country equality, solidarity, and participation, is to promote the values, as they are peculiar to the euscal society. So, we work on this new impulse, and it's the new innovation, employment, and the Balsque Country strategy of that impulse. Now I'll speak of the engagement to strengthen peace and fellowship. First, I'll tell you a strong conviction. The Basque Society hopes that organized end of violence and we will be able to help to obtain the new principle of association as soon as possible. I grant that differences between parties have increased, and that they have not contributed to block the Peace and Company Committee, and that they have neutralized the chance of forming indirect political agreements. But I'd like to confirm that we're still working on this area. The Basque Society demands that the weapons be left behind and that they may disappear. Political agents and institutions require an end of violence. As for the organized end of violence, it is locked around three parties; the disarming, the prisoner, and the critical thought of the past. We ask that a process of disarming and a final disappearance may be given to you in an unhinged, unconditional, unconditioned manner, fully and distinctly proved. 'EuskMingon 21th December, 2014, announced a proposal about unarmation and an organized end. This path must be made with discretion, in accordance with engagements, without any strategy or partial interest in taking up the deadlines. As far as the politics of prison are concerned, based on laws and human principles, we are working for penal normal and prison abnormality, re-educated to society and partnership. We'll go on asking the patriot to his left. let the collective veto, which forbids prisoners to take advantage of individual prison bonds, and to pass over by legal means of resociation. We shall present a new proposition of the policy of punishment and prisons based on the New Spanish Government based on the Direct Road and the Talker's programmes. As for critical reflection, we are proposing a pedagogia of self-criticity within the limits of human rights. On October 30th and 31st, with Donostia 2016 initiative, he's directed the first project based on the proposal. Within the scope of this performance, prisoners on the way Nanclares will present a project made within the experience of the word program. In addition to the organized end of violence, we need also the new principle of partnership. The planet of peace and co-existence itself is intended to unite society, that is the end of our work. The axes of our action are collected in four different areas; the victims, the enlightenment, the memory, and the culture of the community. We'll continue with the public policies of victims, and we'll continue to promote certain programs such as Adian, the portraits, coming and building. We will develop compromise together, so that the beauty of the victims will look into the future and promote the connection between the victims and society. In addition to this, we shall present in the autumn a proposal of consenting to the law of the law to which human rights have been violated. To set up the high school of memory, co-existence, and human rights is one of the axes of this legislation. The policy of memory which integrates society will encourage them, as well as politics which always renounce violence, and which are founded on the engagement of human rights, and on the end of their co-operation. We will encourage co-workers, driven by the intervention of society itself. We will support the enterprises which have been started with these: With associations, with educationmakers, with the Council of Castile, with EITB, with Eestal University, with the Peace Programs, and the Human Rights of the United Nations. We shall allow the members of society, as an effective means of association, to obtain peace and co-operation. And we have been engaged to work for it, according to a great idea: society society. I maintain the personal conviction that society expects us to contribute as soon as possible and in the best way possible to the definitive end of violence and a renewing principle of coexistence. The extreme weakening of ETA is a positive fact. Today, the final end of ETA remains necessary, an end that secures its total disarmament and complete disappearance. Basque society demands that ETA be dissolved, and it also demands recognition of the unjust damage caused, something as simple as saying that killing was wrong, that violating human rights was wrong. This is our commitment. In the area of peace and coexistence, the Government's commitment will continue to be the social meeting. This commitment involves intervening with concrete proposals, seeking consensus in all institutional and political directions. We are not going to stand still; we are going to take the initiative, and take risks to promote unlocking. We will continue to act with the public policies of victims. As we advance in the meetings on 4 and 5 June, we will develop the Batera commitment, so that victim policies also look to the future and promote the union between victims and society. The Basque Government will continue to demand from ETA a process of definitive, irreversible, unconditional, complete and verifiable disarmament and disappearance. We will present to the new Spanish Government a proposal to recover, from legal and humanitarian principles, the state of penal and prison normality, oriented towards reintegration and coexistence, based on the documents Zuzen Bidean and Hitzeman. We call on those on the abertzale left to lift the collective veto that prevents prisoners from opting for individual prison benefits and going through the legal channels of reintegration and resocialization. We will continue to propose and promote a pedagogy of self-criticism in human rights, as a model of political and constructive management of the past. The launch of the Institute of Memory, Co-existence and Human Rights will be one of the pillars of the end of the legislature. This autumn we will put forward a proposal to reach a consensus on a law on the recognition of victims of unrecognized human rights violations. After the general elections, the Basque Government will prepare the proposal for a basic agreement for coexistence. It will be inspired by the ethical soil, and will be presented as a tool to create a shared space for coexistence in the medium term. We have a clear objective: to make social encounter possible. Thirdly, I address the commitment to lay the groundwork for a new political status for Euskadi. My commitment, as reflected in the government programme, was to propose the creation of a parliamentary paper for the groups to assess Basque self-government and from the maximum possible consensus to lay the foundations for its future development. The presentation was made on 27 March 2014. I would like to record two issues relating to the work carried out within it. The debate takes place in the institution that best reflects the plurality of citizenship to which our self-government owes itself, and it has been attended by all groups. And we have been able to listen and listen with respect, despite our differences and the different political projects we represent. I defend the need to place the debate of the future within the presentation, as we continue to show the tendency to put our proposals and initiatives outside this area. The cabinet that I chair has indeed made available to the paper all the reports that have been required of it; they will serve to enrich the debate and focus the final phase of its task. The positions expressed by the different political groups do not yet offer the members to materialise a common proposal. It is clear, however, that we mostly share the recognition that the institutions of which our community was endowed, with the Gernika Statute, have contributed to improving our common life and well-being; we assume that the Statute is not being complied with; we share the uniqueness that recognizes the system of economic concertation, in whose defence we almost unanimously agree, and we feel the need to update self-government and adapt it to the new reality of the Europe to which we belong. I have been and am respectful of the work of the paper. I honestly believe that, when Parliament advocates for itself the knowledge of a matter as relevant as the organization of future coexistence, the Government should focus on providing the House with the support it may require. So I have done for the last year and a half, in strict consequence with my convictions. My convictions remain. In fact, in two weeks' time the anniversary of the first Basque Government will be celebrated, and we make our own the aspiration of the lehendakari Aguirre, in search of the agreement to give way to what he said, the desire for national freedom of Euskadi. My political approaches and aspirations, my ideas about Euskadi and their right to self-government are, as could not be otherwise, part of the acquis of political formation to which I belong. Four years ago, 135 of the Constitution. there was a dispute about the reform of the article at the Courts. When the road of reform was opened, the Jestric Party, who was the President, introduced a correction. In this correction it was summed up what the party intends to self-organize, whether it be the right of self-determination by the citizens of the Basques, to assume that their political, economic, social, and culture is a free and democratic power of deciding whether the sovereignty is shared by other nations. Today I'm being part of this Euscadian parliament as president, and I represent all of the sensibilities of our country. As for the auto-generacy, at the time of designing the future, I defend myself from agreeing and based upon an integrated arrangement, the basis of that future being concluded and comprehended. I repeat, the conclusion of the following sequence: Conversation, negotiation, agreement, confirmation. I accept the diversity of society, and commit to respect it. This commitment means that neither the postulates of one side nor the postulates of the other side should be imposed upon by one, nor by mine alone. By agreement and agreement we shall obtain a more just and democratic society. The negotiation and agreement are the indispensable elements of my proposal. The solution of this agreement must always confirm the majority of the Basque communities, as an expression of the free and democratic determination of political future. I should like to remind you, that every treaty is founded on two pillars: in mutual approbation and partiality. If we don't agree on both sides, there's no treaty. Progress means denying one-sidedness. The one-sidedness invalidates the gathering of will. The future of Basque self-government goes through the recovery of the spirit of the pact, mutual recognition and bilaterality. Aiming for a new future does not mean ignoring the self-government achieved. We cannot disregard the achievements of those who preceded us in the construction of this Euskadi. Self-government has opened the door to the institutionalization of Euskadi. Its exercise has enabled us to achieve the highest levels of well-being, quality of life and institutional confidence in our history. I affirm that the Basque self-government must be evaluated and reformulated, not as a new building to be erected in the air and without attachment to the existing framework, but from the reality of what has been built over the past thirty-five years. The Basque self-government must be supported, extending the powers already recognized, adapting to the European reality, and widening the limits of institutional and social construction already consolidated. Given this reality, we cannot ignore the shortcomings of statutory development, which are reflected in the lack of completion of the transfer process and its degradation. The Statute of Gernika, an updated expression of historical rights, was conceived by Basque society as our own Constitution. In recent years, there has been a deterioration in the nature of the Statute. We are suffering a practical degradation of the capacity and legal and symbolic rank of Basque self-government, caused by invasive legislation and jurisprudence, which devalue their real capacity. The current framework does not respect the inspiring spirit of the 1979 Statute, which established the principles of subject, bilaterality, covenant and guarantees. It has not been possible to agree and create the instruments that guarantee the full development of the Statute; nor to ensure the guarantees of compliance that preserve its agreed nature. As lehendakari, I have to appeal, even to demand from the State and the governments of the State, to recover the spirit and content with which we work, to agree and to society ratified the Statute of Gernika, conceived as our Constitution. We have suffered a mutation in the statutory covenant; a new convention is needed. It is essential to recognize the multi-national reality of the State and to re-govern the self-government of Euskadi to the desired rank of Basque citizenship. The uniqueness of Euskadi is based on the legal, even legal-constitutional, entanglement that protects and respects our historical rights, original freedoms preserved by pact. I have been and still am in favour of making the most of this legal singularity. I am convinced that in this way we can move towards greater self-government and develop economic, social and cultural policies that will enable us to face our future with guarantees within the framework of a Europe under construction. In this way we can find effective areas of coincidence and confluence with Navarra, to the extent that it allows us to share, in the foral environment, the same tradition and vocation of self-government. I am convinced that we have the capacity to reach a new pact from mutual recognition and effective bilaterality. I believe in union from democratic will and free accession; I do not believe in unity from imposition and unilaterality. As a foreign nation that we are, our historic rights, protected and respected, can give them as much as they can reach our capacity to achieve institutional pacts, to make political decisions that are endorsed by citizens and respected. In this way we can find the way forward in self-government, achieve recognition as a nation and continue to build Euskadi in a stronger and more open Europe. I respect the work of the paper, and I trust its results. Our starting point as representatives of the Basque people is the Statute of Gernika in its entirety, including its additional provision, as endorsed by Basque citizens. This starting point is a basic democratic requirement. The whole Basque citizenship endorsed the pact, so its modification must go through a new social endorsement. I have shared with you my vision and conviction that the moment demands commitment, responsibility and height of sight. Our great political challenge is to identify a meeting space for the plurality of political aspirations and feelings of national belonging that are quoted in Basque society. Legebiltzarkideok, ladies and gentlemen, I have started my speech by saying that we are aware of the demands of the moment and of the priority of fulfilling the government program. I am committed to completing the programme and fulfilling the word given to society. It is not my style to make statements of more or less diffuse intentions. I have broken through the projects on which this Government is working, and I conclude with a summary of the main commitments that we are going to implement in the coming months. Before the end of the year, the Government will adopt and forward to the House six new bills in advanced processing: public employment; ports and maritime transport; organization and operation of the Basque public sector; documents and archives; transparency, citizen participation and good governance; and vocational training. Four public offers of employment, with 1,700 new places: public offer of employment of Osakidetza, with 1,014 places; the twenty-fifth promotion of Ertzaintza, with 250 new places; public offer of Education with 275 places, and 175 places that will be consolidated in the Administration of Justice. In addition, we have completed the consolidation of Lanbide's new structural staff, with 918 positions, which represents 104 new positions; we have committed the public offer of Employment of Osakidetza for the first quarter of 2016, which will reach 1,500 positions, and we are working on a public offer of employment in Education. We advanced in infrastructures for the modernization of Euskadi: new judicial office of Donostia, and judicial infrastructure in Bilbao destined to the Prosecutor's Office of Bizkaia; effective implementation of the Antzerti-School of Dramatic Art and Dance of Euskadi, after its inauguration yesterday; Mariturri education centre in Vitoria-Gasteiz; completion of line 3 of the metro of Bilbao; progress in the network of the metro of Donostialdea with the entry into service of the Herrera-Altza and Lugaritz-Easo sections, new Loyola station and also the railway variant of Eibar; start the recovery work of the Pasaia Bay in implementation of the inter-institutional agreement; port integration with the logistic platforms of Jundiz and Arasur; open the new hospital of Urduliz and promote the new hospital of Eibar; open the health centers of Zestoa, Santutxu, Miribilla and Kanpezu. Relevant initiatives for progress in our country: to develop the new spatial planning guidelines designed under the Euskal Hiria model; to complete the launch of Basque Global Network, a network that will link the entire Basque community in the world; to complement and complete the implementation of the sixth plan for the equality of women and men, a continuous and cross-cutting commitment of the Government; to jointly manage the European Capital of Culture Donostia 2016; to consolidate the ESS Bilbao neutron source project in collaboration with Lund headquarters and the Spanish Government. We're starting initiatives which will improve the social quality and the welfare of the community directly. We're going to design a project that can only be one ticket to transport. We're going to close the integrated grid of health, and that's what we're going to do. We're gonna put Gastei, Aquab, Errisha, and the ESIs at the Uribe Coast. A new decree that will regulate the Doa justice. We'll end up completing Oss and Pressets, as far as the integrated pattern of the socionation is concerned for all the dwellings that are above 100 years old. We will accept the strategic plan of social service, forums and municipal unions. In the economy area, we will make decisions that will encourage Eukadin's recovery and employment. We're going to present Vanguard's initiative, he's a European research project in the etholical energy area, and we're going to introduce the urgent E2025 strategy, and we're going to reinforce the project by Bim. We're expanding the RIS3 strategy of the mind's specialization. Enforce the program to recover the economy and push the job on the left and on the Oarso. We'll move forward in the Educational strategy, encourage them with a Professional education, and encourage international innovation and innovation. We will present the development of the cultural industry and manufactures. We do more than these active and commitments, we do our daily work. Examples are examples which indicate an engagement to the word given in the government program. I'm done. The Basque Government looks to the future with greater confidence and hope. We do not hide the difficulties and uncertainties. They know of our commitment to economic rigour in public policies. We're going to consolidate what we've achieved. We will continue to ensure essential public services, social protection and economic recovery and job creation policies. We have to get out of the crisis, and do it together and in the right direction. I am realistic, aware of the difficulties, and I believe in the strength and capacity of Euskadi, of businesses, families and people. The formula will not be different: work, shared effort and collaboration. We will go ahead thanks to the group of administrations that we share public policies; thanks to the political agreements that we have been able to reach, to public-private consultation and to the participation of society; thanks to stability and collaboration; thanks to the work and commitment of all those who are striving and working in the Basque Government (Ertzaintza, Osakidetza, Education, Lanbide and the public service as a whole). My last words are to thank this collective effort and demand that we maintain the spirit of collaboration. Let us continue to work together in companies, families, social groups, public administrations, and also in this Parliament. I am fully aware of the difficulties and needs of the moment. I am fully aware of our responsibility for integration. The future of Euskadi is a collective work; what we achieve will be a shared achievement. With greater confidence and hope we look into the future. I promise that we will endeavour to overcome the challenges, which is our privilege: to get out of crisis, supported by social panic, and fixed the way to the economic future of Eucharadia. We've always known how to advance. This time it will be the same formula: work and cooperation. Let's get back to work together because Euskakia's future is a collective job. So everything we do will be a shared achievement. That's how we see it and we'll keep going. Thank you, everyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. The Union stops until 1:30 a.m. It was ten-thirty-six. The meeting resumed at two thirty-three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u3	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll follow the ridge. Misto-UPyD is the representative of the band. Mr. Maneiro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u4	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr Lehendakari, Members of the Basque Government. I do not think it is so much a question of analysing what you, Mr Lehendakari, said this morning, that also, and above all of analysing what the results of your policies have been during these three years of parliamentary term; that is, what your policies have determined in relation to matters that matter to Basque citizens. That is to say, to analyze how Euskadi was in 2012 and how Euskadi is today, how the Basque citizens were in 2012 and how the Basque citizens are today. And in particular, and of course, how are the ordinary Basque citizens who have been through this brutal economic crisis? It is therefore a matter of making a serious and rigorous assessment of what this Government has done. The Government cannot be a mere notary to explain the things that have evolved, but to explain what proposals it has put on the table, which it has articulated, and what they have brought about in the well-being of Basque society. And, analysed all this, it is obvious, in our opinion, that you have failed. It is obvious, in our opinion, that we have an inert, inactive, incapable and insensitive government, and a perfectly disposable lehendakari. And surely the worst of all this is the insensitivity that has been demonstrated again today during his intervention. I believe that this is what has attracted our most attention and what seems to us to be the most serious, given the situation in which thousands of Basque citizens find themselves. Therefore, an inactive, incapable and insensitive government. On the one hand, you have not promoted one of the modernising reforms that Euskadi needs (or one of them), and, on the other hand, you have not solved the main problems of Basque citizens. Throughout this time, job insecurity, poverty and inequality have increased, and although certain economic data can be considered positive – there are some positive developments in certain economic data – the fact is that this has not been translated or is being translated into the creation of stable and quality employment, nor in the improvement of people's living conditions. Therefore, we have a government that does not drive the reforms that Euskadi needs and that keeps its arms crossed. It has kept its arms crossed in relation, for example, to the Basque institutional framework, with the reform of the Historical Territories Act – which we will soon discuss as a result of an initiative put forward by the Socialist Group – or with regard to the modernization of the corporate public sector. In all this, the current Basque Government has not put any interest in it, nor has it promoted a single reforming measure. We have a government that doesn't solve people's problems; economic and social data show this. A Basque government that outrages the victims of terrorism and promotes the theory of political conflict. And a Basque government that, when it came to that, lies and brazenly manipulates, as we had occasion to see at the penultimate press conference given by the spokesman for this government. Therefore, an inert, inactive, incapable and insensitive government. We have suffered inanimate, stopped, inactive, heartless government, and we are suffering, not indispensable government. A government which does not encourage the reforms which it requires, and which does not repair the most urgent concerns of the citizens. Why has everything you have done served, whether alone or accompanied? What, by the way, has your agreement with the Socialist Group, with the Socialist Party served? To divide perhaps the Basque Court of Public Accounts, to divide certain municipal governments, to solve perhaps their problems? No more. There has been no significant change to the better during these three years. We see it that way at least. With regard to the economy, the progress of the economy, you have quoted a number of initiatives that you have carried out or launched during these three years of the legislature. What are the actual results of those initiatives that you have launched? What is the real impact they have had on the well-being of Basque society? What has been achieved in terms of job creation, stable and quality employment, in terms of job insecurity, poverty or inequality? Can you give us some concise data on this issue, what results your policies have achieved? We believe that they have not achieved any beneficial results. Things remain basically the same, and many Basque citizens today are worse than they were three years ago. Let us see some data, data that challenge your Government and that should be of concern to you. According to the 2014 Social Needs Survey, more than 160,000 Basques suffered from severe or very serious feeding problems, and of these, more than 25,000 felt the feeling of hunger last year. According to the survey of the European Network to Combat Poverty and Social Exclusion, more than 100,000 Basques are in a situation of severe poverty, a figure that has grown in more than 30,000 people since 2009. In addition, one in four people has no capacity to face unforeseen expenses, and nearly 500,000 Basques cannot afford to leave on vacation one week a year. In Euskadi, between 2012 and 2014, poverty among children under the age of 14 has progressed at a higher rate than in the rest of the population: the poverty rate of children under the age of 14 increased from 7.3% in 2008 to 9.5% in 2012 and to 11.2% in 2014. These are real data that you should worry about. Euskadi has lost more than 150,000 full-time jobs during the crisis. There is an increasing number of part-time workers and fewer full-time workers, and wages continue to fall. And there is also a new social class in Euskadi: workers who cannot even reach the end of the month. Four out of ten new contracts signed in Euskadi are part-time. Since 2008, partiality has increased by 12 points (from 27 to 39%) and has also increased in the last year (from 38 to almost 40%). 11.5% of households in Euskadi have difficulty reaching the end of the month. 35% of Euskadi's single-parent households do not meet their basic needs, according to a survey by the Basque Government. These are absolutely real data. The ESC also notes the increase in energy poverty. The Basque Government's Poverty and Inequalities Survey shows that in 2014 11% of the Basque population declared it difficult to maintain the right temperature at home, which means more than 237,000 people. This represents an increase of more than 30% over the 2012 survey and up to 170% over pre-crisis figures. And this is the responsibility of your Government, which with its powers should solve these problems, and yet it does not. The majority of workers who lose their jobs are still unemployed (70 % of the unemployed are already long-term), and 50,000 Basque households have all their members unemployed. What do you have to say about this data, Mr Lehendakari? What have you done during these three years to resolve these issues? Basque is the autonomous community where job satisfaction has fallen the most. And we can also talk about the exodus of young people: almost 10,000 young people under the age of 30 have abandoned Euskadi in the last five years. Economic growth does not translate into employment, increases precariousness, and increases inequality in the distribution of wealth. More than half of the new contracts last a month or less. In addition, tax collection is halted in Euskadi, while the government's debt remains at an absolutely high level. Do you perceive these problems? Do you take them into account? If you have not been able to solve them so far, how will you intend to solve them from now on? With the same prescriptions, just blaming the rest of what your government doesn't do? These are, in short, absolutely real problems. Therefore, we maintain high levels of unemployment, job insecurity, child poverty, energy poverty, and an inequality that is increasing day by day. Today there is more inequality than a year ago, two years ago and three years ago. And you have not taken any steps to put an end to this situation; to finally solve people's problems. There are unemployment, poverty, and differences in the Eukadin; these are the problems that this government has to solve. It is therefore an absolute failure in terms of economic matters. It will tell us that we are better than elsewhere in Spain, but that was already the case before you came to this government. Even now we are less better than in other parts of Spain in relation to the past. With regard to peace and coexistence, you say that we contribute to the end of violence. If you want to contribute to the end of the violence, what you have to do in the first place I suppose it will be to celebrate the arrests of ETA members, instead of criticizing those arrests as some member of your political party (in particular the president of your political party) has said in the last few hours. Instead of criticizing the arrests of ETA members, since you say that you intend to contribute to the end of the violence, the first thing you should do is to say that that is indeed the line, that you must continue to detain ETA members. Of course, the solution cannot be a kind of summer camp shared between victims and victims, but to defend the rule of law and the law; to care as the victims of terrorism deserve; to promote justice, memory and the truth of events. That's what you have to do. And delegitimize ETA, instead of promoting the theory of political conflict. Because this is exactly what you have done all this time, and in particular what you have been doing over the past few weeks: that meeting of mayors you convened, that claim to pompously bring together the mayors of those localities where ETA murdered to propose to you the performance of tributes to the victims of terrorism, and to leave out the People's Party, which has, in the end, been one of the political parties that has suffered the most terrorist violence in Euskadi. Do you not see that this is absolutely unacceptable, that if you want to end terrorism you will have to rely on all democratic political parties, and especially those political parties that have been attacked for years by ETA? Finally, it is an insult, therefore, to intelligence, and a proposal made with a very bad idea and an absolutely unacceptable lack of respect. Let's see the list of honorables you handed over to those mayors. Do you think it's normal to put people on that list... in the end, dead ages in police operations, even though the cases have been investigated and filed by the courts? Do you think it's normal to include in that list people whose deaths were blamed by the police by Arnaldo Otegi, and natural causes by Ibarretxe or Juan Mari Atutxa? Do you think it would be normal to include in that list dead persons who have been run over by private vehicles? Does it seem normal to include even cases of suicide, and half a dozen deaths from heart disease, cancer or other diseases? These are the facts that you have promoted during all these years, and in particular during the last few weeks. And by the facts you will know them. The fact is that the list of worthy victims that your Government has drawn up, which you have drawn up, not only ignores, but conceals resolutions of the Spanish, French, Mexican and Strasbourg justice systems. This is the reality. What do you do this for? No doubt to encourage the theory of political conflict. Such a course of action only gives oxygen to those who still aspire to assert the theory of political conflict. Jonan Fernández does what he has already done in Lokarri and Elkarri, but now you are responsible, Mr Lehendakari, for putting him on public pay and office and for keeping him in office. You are responsible for all these measures that you are pushing over the last few years and in particular over the last few weeks. Indeed, much remains to be done in what has to do with ETA's coexistence and defeat. This summer we have suffered banners with ETA anagrams, toasts and tributes to ages, attacks on ATMs and the monolith itself that reminds the victims of terrorism in Bilbao. Faced with this, what you must do is demand that ETA condemn all these facts. But we barely heard anything from you, and they still don't say that killing was wrong. You said today morning that it is our commitment and that we will not remain silent. But this isn't enough. It breaks relations with those who still justify ETA, and shares with the Democrats a strategy to delegitimize and defeat ETA. This is what you basically have to do. Salary advisors tell us that everything is going very well. We tell him that, although it is true that ETA has been defeated by police (it is practically defeated), the truth is that it is still pending to prevent the exculpation of ETA, the manipulation of history and the forgetfulness of the victims. And there are a lot of things to do in that regard, a lot of things, and the government has not been up to it all these years. On the contrary, it has fostered the theory of political conflict, and has remained equidistant between the victims and the victims. Self-government. You have been muttering about self-government and the new status for three years, but without making any concrete proposals, but with no rights that do not exist. It demands that the Government of Spain, and even urges you to respect certain rights that do not exist, but forgets that you are the ordinary representative of the State in Euskadi, forgets your obligations, and forgets that, first of all, what you have to do is respect the Spanish Constitution and ensure that it is complied with. And it gives me the feeling, as seen, that you do not have that intention, but quite the contrary. Let us see, let us observe some of the events of the last few days. Ten days ago the spokesman of his Government appeared at a press conference whose content we can summarise: a series of manipulations and falsifications about self-government, in order to anchor the ascua to his sardine and defend the political project of the Basque Nationalist Party, and in order to avoid his own governmental responsibilities in the areas in which he has competence. A press conference that explains well how this government spends it, a press conference and a political trajectory to extricate the "Spain steals us" of all life. The blame for everything is always on others, and the Basque Nationalist Party is never responsible for anything. This is what you have basically been defending for all these years, as if you did not have a wide range of competences that you could exercise, as if there were no problems here, in Basquedi, that you and your Government could help resolve. Anyway, as I say, manipulations and falsehoods about self-government. And that is to say that complying with the Statute in its nationalist version would almost double the Basque budgets, without pointing out the expenditure it would entail, is trying to deceive Basque society. To say that we are in favour of the transfer of the social security system, hiding the hole of almost 2 billion euros that we would suffer, is to try to defraud society. To say that the management of such competition would absorb and compensate for such a deficit is simply a sham. I ask you not to play with the present and the future of thousands of people in Euskadi, because it is something very serious. To say that the difficulties affecting the current state pension system could be minimized by a model of Euskadi's own, because the Basque labour market has higher wages and greater stability, is another half-truth, and is therefore a lie. To say that self-government is at risk of becoming irrelevant, and that the alternative is bilaterality with the State, is pure political opportunism, especially when the Basque Government still does not present a concrete proposal that could be discussed in this House. Which, by the way, adds to the previous adjectives that of cowardice. Political cowardice, because you are unable to make a concrete proposal, you are unable to say exactly what you want and how you are going to carry it out. By the way, they're talking about irrelevant. Do you find the Basque Government irrelevant? Does it seem to you that the Basque Government does not have sufficient powers to solve many of the problems that haunt Basque citizens? What seems irrelevant to me is the activity of your Government: legislative activity, political activity, everything that concerns measures, proposals to modernise Euskadi. That's irrelevant. That's an absolute non-relevance. But don't accuse others of what you don't do, don't accuse other governments of what you don't do, because you have enough competence to solve many of the problems that Basque citizens have. You, the ordinary representative of the State in our community, are stunned, and this I am going to say seems very serious: you are waiting to see what is happening in Catalonia, you are waiting to see what is happening in the next general election. For what? To take advantage of the weakness of the State and take further steps towards independence. And that seems to me to be an absolute disloyalty. I say that you are the ordinary representative of the State in our Autonomous Community. However, it remains lukewarm, waiting for things to get worse in Spain as a whole, so that the Basque Nationalist Party can draw political advantage and new privileges. And that, finally, has a name: political bodywork is called that, trying to make things go wrong in the rest of Spain so that, when the time comes, it can present a concrete proposal that will vulnerate, that goes beyond the Spanish Constitution. To say that a bilateral and agreed relationship with the Government of the State is necessary is to want to continue living from the nationalist tale, a new stage until reaching the final goal, the independence of Euskadi, as Mr Egibar himself often reminds us in this House, when he tells us that you are still nationalists. Continue to live from the nationalist tale in order, when the time comes, to present your own proposal for independence. To say, to come and say or, finally, to drop that all our evils come from Spain is to resign from the responsibilities that are their own. In addition to being a monumental falsehood, I say that it is to resign from their own responsibilities and try to divert attention from their competences. They do not claim such competences as they do not have, or even do not have, and they better manage the competences already available to them, as already available to the Basque Government in the fields of education, health, infrastructure, Ertzaintza and so many other issues. They exercise their powers well, which they have not done so far, rather than blaming the Spanish Government for not transferring certain powers. This is the usual attitude of the Basque Nationalist Party: everything is the fault of others, and the Basque Nationalist Party is not responsible for anything. This is a summary of the political trajectory of his Government and the Basque Nationalist Party. No matter how much you have ruled Euskadi almost always, no matter how much you govern the three parliaments, no matter how much you govern in countless municipalities: the Spanish Government is always responsible for what is wrong with us, and you do not assume your own powers. And he certainly has a lot of skills. Therefore, stop doing victimism and rule. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. There's a lot of things to do in Basque, there's a lot of problems that haven't been solved, there's a lot of reforms to do. Examples of political inaction: three years later, we continue without a concrete proposal to reform the Basque institutional framework; three years later, we continue without the necessary modernization of the public corporate sector; three years later, we continue without a law of transparency; three years later, we continue without a law of public administrations; three years later, we continue without a law of public employment; three years later, we continue without you presenting a Basque law of employment. Three years later, you are still, in the end, waiting to do all that you have committed, and many more things that you have not committed but that are indispensable to carry out. You spoke today in the morning of the degradation of self-government, of the Statute of Gernika. Degradation is that of his Government. That is degradation and irrelevance, and lack of political activity, lack of capacity to solve people's problems. Stop throwing balls out and attacking the rest, and look what you and your government have done during these three years. Look at the things to do in Euskadi that are still pending. Observe the social reality of Basque society, observe its problems. Observe Euskadi, and so many things that must be done in Euskadi to modernize it internally. Finally, stop fables and legends about the alleged existence of an external enemy, and properly exercise the skills they already have. Solve problems. Solve problems. Take care of the people. And stop trying to sell us as a model its management in Euskadi, by the way, which is what you did today morning: if we analyze the evolution of certain variables and compare Euskadi with the rest of Spain, it is clear that compared to Euskadi is no better than a few years ago. And there we can resort to data such as unemployment rates, occupation rates, or activity rates. And this is your responsibility, this is your Government's responsibility. Today they defend bilaterality and the right to decide, even using such a ridiculous term as a foreign nation, but they continue to refuse to present a concrete proposal for reforming our coexistence framework. What are you waiting for? Are you afraid? Of course, we have our own, which would basically consist in promoting all the reforms that Euskadi and Spain need, since the reform of the Spanish Constitution, through the reform of the Statute of Gernika or the reform of the Historical Territories Act and so many other issues that must be carried out as soon as possible. We therefore have our own proposals. But, of course, we are also clear, taking into account the situation of the country today and the clash of nationalisms, that today our first obligation is to defend the Spanish Constitution and the rule of law. That is our first obligation, in the Congress of Deputies and also here, in the Basque Parliament. There are peripheral nationalisms that are intended to raise walls among fellow citizens. In the face of this situation, what we are going to say is that we are going to continue to defend the Spanish Constitution and the rule of law, so that Catalan or Basque nationalists do not get away with it. We have proposals, but our obligation today is, as Fernando Savater said, to defend Spain on an argumental basis, without remixes or circumloquies. But not from sublime chasticisms, but as a rule of law that serves as an institutional anchor to our citizenship. In Catalonia, by the way, we are not living a pulse between the Spanish Government and the nationalists, but a check on the rights and freedoms of each of us, the truly existing citizens. What happens there also matters to us, and it is necessary to bring it to this rostrum, because here too it can happen similar in the coming months, and we are certainly not willing to lower the guard, but quite the contrary. And, as I said before, you remain lurking, waiting for events, ready to take advantage of the weakness of the State. Finally, we are going to defend all the reforms that are necessary, but today what is to be defended is the rule of law, and to say as many times as it is necessary that it is better to unite than to separate, that it is better to break down borders than to raise them, and that it is absurd and that it is profoundly reactionary to pretend to raise borders between fellow citizens who intend to live together. We're gonna defend him everywhere. Also in Euskadi. For Catalonia, for the Basque Country and for the whole of Spain. To this we wish to reform the Constitution of Spain, and auto-gourge, and the institutional model of Euscal: that equality may be more numerous, and that it may procure well-being for all of us. That is our goal: to defend more equality and better well-being for all. And we will repeat as many times as it is necessary that the right to decide which you pose is a fallacy; that the right to decide is something consistent with democracy itself and we all have it. What no one has, on the other hand, is the right to decide that others do not decide on a matter of public interest, whether it be the independence of Catalonia, the reform of the Spanish Constitution or the territorial model of the State, issues that affect us all. Therefore, the right to decide that you stand is a sham, although it should be added that the right to decide does exist, but that it belongs to all Spanish citizens. And that in order to reform the Spanish Constitution we must speak to all Spanish citizens. And that in order to reform or change the territorial model of the state we must speak to all Spanish citizens. I say this to you, Mr Lehendakari, not because I am on the subject, but because you are a nationalist, and because you do not finish presenting the correct proposal you want for Euskadi. And, therefore, it is worth remembering. It is worth remembering here what are the legal limits set out in the Spanish Constitution, what are the limits you have and that we all have to change the reality in which we live. Finally, Mr Lehendakari, after three years of parliamentary office, we can say that we suffer from a lehendakari and a Basque government incapable, inactive and insensitive; a lehendakari and a Basque government that resort to victimism to hide their inability, inactivity and insensitivity; a lehendakari and a government that, with their concrete actions, foster the theory of political conflict and outrage many victims of terrorism; a lehendakari and a Basque government that do not drive the reforms that Euskadi needs; a lehendakari and a Basque government that do not solve the real problems of the people; and a lehendakari and a Basque government that do not concretely realize the new status they claim and that they also stand up and wait for what happens in other places. And this is political cowardice. Therefore, Mr Lehendakari, an inert, incapable and insensitive Basque government, and a perfectly negligible and irrelevant Lehendakari. This is the summary we make of your three-year term.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u5	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Quiroga is the representative of Euscal Popular.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u6	Pick it up on. Very good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, we are entering the final line of this legislature, and in this plenary of general policy it is up to us to take stock of these three years of management of these three years of his Basque Government. And for that I believe that the most honest thing, and in order to make an analysis as realistic as possible, I believe that the first thing that needs to be done is to remember the circumstances in which you arrived at the government. You then described the economic situation as a national emergency, and committed yourself with all Basques to facing the crisis – and I open quotes – "really, taking real measures and assuming real problems." He even spoke of a genuine Euskadi reboot. In the year 2012. And I ask you, first of all: Do you really believe the lehendakari, after the balance sheet that you made this morning, that we are in the genuine reboot of Euskadi? If we look today at the graphs of the main indicators of unemployment (unemployment is the main problem of the citizens), the truth is that in Euskadi we are reducing unemployment somewhat, but very little. You have taken up the job with an unemployment rate of 16.6% of the population, and at the moment it is 15.98 %. Half a point in three years. Half a point in three years. If we go to another point, the gross domestic product, this increases (data from the last quarter) at a rate of 2,7 %, compared to 3,1 % with which the rest of Spain does. Why do I put these two data on the table, lehendakari? Because now that a cycle of expansion is beginning in the economy, we all thought – and so I was able to share it with different social actors – that growth in Euskadi was going to be done with another pace, with another air. The fact that Euskadi came out of this crisis later did not fit into his forecasts, among other things because it has never been so. But the reality is that today, three years after the start of his term, Euskadi is diluted among other areas of the whole of Spain that were much worse than us. But it's not about me putting you in comparison with other places in Spain, because surely, if I take some data from you, you could take out others. I believe that what is really more honest is, by doing an analysis of what our instruments are, what our tools and capabilities are, to do an analysis of how we are right now in Euskadi compared to 2012, which is where you take responsibility for the Basque Government. Because your government, the Basques, we have an extraordinary range of powers, which would allow your government to be more agile, more innovative, more effective. But, of course, it is necessary to modernise and innovate for that purpose, and above all we must want to do so. And, from the data I'm going to give below, it seems that that of wanting, wanting... much your government has not wanted. How can you measure the management capacity of your Government, which is what I would like to do in this debate? In the first place, in the light of legislative activity. And this first fact, lehendakari, already highlights them: five laws passed in this Parliament, five laws passed by this government in these three years that have been passed. Mr Lehendakari, can you assure this House that your Government has really faced these difficult times, with five laws presented, passed in these three years? Five laws that are now having effect in Basque society. Not those that will have, no: those that right now have effect in a situation, as you yourself said, that it was a national emergency and that required all our efforts. And I ask you: is that all your government's ability to take real action, as you said? In three years of law, Mr. President, that's the result of the work your government has done. Is that all your government could do to a state of emergency? Is that what you said, Mr. President, to take proper measures? I can't believe the passion for your work. It's amazing how much your management skills are. That would be the first way to measure what your activity has been. And the truth, as I was saying, leaves them in evidence: two budgets, a law on contaminated soils, one to guarantee the extra pay of officials, and that of the statistical plan. Let's move on. Another of the variables to measure your management capacity is to analyze what you are doing with the budget, at what rate you are spending the expected money, because that means at what rate you are working. We have the budget implementation data on 31 August, and the first thing that draws attention to, lehendakari, are the items that are at zero, which at 31 August are at zero. And they are also departures that have to do with economic activity, with that which generates employment, that must be our priority. Those items that are at zero are as follows: Entrepreneurship development, budgeted at 600,000, spent at zero; Machine-tool renewal plan, budgeted at 2 million, spent at zero; Urban trade, budgeted at 2 million, spent at zero; Trade modernization, budgeted at 3.750,000, spent at zero. But another fact that draws attention, lehendakari, and that seems to me to be even more important, is that of investment, the execution of investment. Because the implementation of the investment at the end is the ability of this Government to focus on economic activity to generate employment; it is that added value of this Government, which with its management succeeds in incentivizing job creation. Well, well, it draws attention to the fact that if you do an evaluation of all departments and see what the level of implementation has been, you realize that they are all below 50%. And this is very striking lehendakari, it's very striking. For example, housing, budgeted 26.5 million, executed 17 million. Investment in hospitals... I have listened to him this morning all the investments he said had been made, and the truth is that out of the 37.5 million budgeted, 652,000, 2% have been implemented. In Education, 27 million budgeted, executed 15 million. This contrasts, on the other hand, with other items that are already executed on 31 December. For example the BEC, the 14.5 million that costs us all Basques. Budgeted, willing and paid. Just as income guarantee income, which out of the 461 million budgeted already tells us that they are being spent and that they have again been cut short in the forecasts. And we have already reached 70% of the debt ceiling we have allowed as an administration. But I come back to the issue of investments, because, as I said, it is what generates added value in their management, and they go to a very low budget execution. At a time like this, of expansion of the economy, at a time when Basque society expected the investment as water of May – and also, by the way, waits as water of May a drop in taxes – we see these indicators so loose of investment. And it gives the impression, lehendakari, that this government goes hand in hand with spending. And what's this for, lehendakari? Can you have anything to do with this data that we are seeing this past week, some worrying data, which seems to be not going at the pace that was expected, which is not going at the pace of the forecast that your Government has made, to grow by 6.17 %? Perhaps it is that the fingers have been caught, and that in something as basic as establishing well what the revenues are going to be in order to then be able to establish with rigor the expenditure, perhaps the fingers have been caught there, lehendakari. Are we going to suffer the Basques the consequences for not being cautious and responsible in their predictions? Is that why they announced more cuts? Are we all to pay for your unfortunate planning? Is it everyone's fault that you're incapable of managing? We're going to have to pay a lot of money for all of the citizens' lousy management. The puncture in the collection, lehendakari, which we have just met, ignites a red light too disturbing. The objective data collected until last August is a slap in the face of realism that says very little about its planning, its sense of responsibility or the way in which they carry this society, and that we can get very expensive to the Basques. In my opinion, the feeble collection, if carried out, would be showing a number of structural problems in the Basque Country certainly worrying. After a tax hike, which is not new, as you did this morning – we have been seeing for two and a half years since it was approved – with an expanding economy and the collection going down in the Basque Country, there is something that is not square, lehendakari, which is disturbing, which demands clarification from your Government. And that, by the way, this morning you didn't even mention it. Were your predictions wrong? Your policies don't work? One more doubt: Perhaps we can understand that way they have to implement the budget, trying not to spend more or not to reach those investments that had been set, so that at the end of the year they can square the accounts? It seems a mistake to us, lehendakari. It seems to us a mistake that the adjustment in this budget is made at the expense of investments, and not of doing what they should have done, which is, since 2012, working to try to make this administration more efficient and reduce costs. By the way, another thing: the economic recovery plans to which you referred this morning, signed with the Socialist Party, those, as I said, to which you referred this morning, when you went to the chapter on how all the actions of those plans were to be financed, meant that all those actions would be financed by what was to be collected with the fight against fraud. It's more – he puts it in those plans, lehendakari, see the part of the funding – it's more, you were 6 billion what was going to come out, what was going to come out of the fight against fraud, at a rate of 2 billion a year. And you didn't tell us any of that! But look, when I'm talking about tax fraud, a few words come to my mind from Bizkaia's former deputy general, who said that fraudsters, fraudsters can be quiet, because he will never publish his memoirs. Today he is the President of the Court of Auditors. That I don't know if it's part of your commitment to that 2012 debate. "It will be a new government and a new way of governing," he said. To govern, lehendakari, means to assume leadership and to face difficulties, negotiations that are not easy. Like the social dialogue, lehendakari. You were telling us this morning that your priority is job creation, and you have not given a single word to social dialogue! We are aware of what the situation is, but for when an agreement in Euskadi? Not anymore; it is within the Administration itself. I remind you of the situation in the Ertzaintza: three years without agreement. We know that the situation is difficult, we know that there is a union that does not attend to reasons, we know that, but its obligation is to negotiate, sit down and agree. And if you don't sit down, you'll have to move on. But what you can't do is accept your blockade. And then, yes, they do face when others propose other formulas – as Adegi did in his day – to advance the agreement between companies and workers. That too, lehendakari, is a government responsibility. Or do you think it was easy for other governments to join trade unions? No! No! But we believe that new models of labour relations should be promoted, that workers should participate in companies. I think that is something favorable; that you could have led, promoted, but you haven't. And this morning we are told that they will actually send us to this House a bill on social economy, at the end of the legislature, when they know that it will not give time for it to be passed. By the way, this morning he has not given a single word to the social economy, which is the benchmark of the Basque economy. He hasn't told us anything. As I was saying, we need to look for a new model of relationships within companies, based on understanding and not confrontation. Because our priority must be those citizens who could work and can't right now, and in that priority should have been, with all their capacity deployed, Lanbide. You said that this morning: indeed, there have been problems. It's just, look, five years dedicated to organizing yourself internally! Five years! It should be remembered that it was in January 2010 when this competition arrived in Euskadi, and in 2015, five years later, right now, in September, it was when they managed to organize themselves. An administration, an entity like Lanbide, which has to be destined to seek the possibilities of the workers out, is five years looking inside and discussing inside how to organize to provide those services. I wish it could be achieved with this organization. What is evident and what is to be asked is whether these years that have been looking inside have not had much to do with that slow walk in the job creation of Euskadi. I think so. And let's see how they are able to manage the two skills that Lanbide has, those two areas, which are mainly workers who are unemployed, and income-guarantee earners. That too may have a lot to do with Lanbide's intermediation rate, which is 2.4%. There is an endless amount of data, lehendakari, that draw a reality, the Basque, on which it was necessary to act, as you said, and it is still necessary to act, because it has not done so. We have an obligation to modernise Euskadi – I agree with you – to adapt the Basque Country to the new realities, but they are challenges on which we cannot act with recipes from the past. And we cannot afford to wait to see what happens, because the price that is paid by losing the train of the twenty-first century is high, very high, and it is paid by specific sectors. And if not, look at the youth data. Young people, who... This morning I heard him say we had to be able to attract talent. Yes, yes! Let's see if we focus first on not leaving, because, with the talent that actually exists in Euskadi, let's see if we create the possibilities for them to stay here and not have to be forced out. But for that, lehendakari, you have to change your attitude, you have to move from confrontation to collaboration. Because, as you are always in this confrontation, you are always looking for this confrontation, because, of course, the luxury of losing European funds for the implementation of basic vocational training is allowed. But besides, lehendakari, when I was listening this morning to talk about the need to boost research, I ask you what has happened to the 100 research collaboration scholarships that have been suppressed for young Basque university students. And another thing. Look, this morning I was listening to him enumerate the government's English programs, and I was saying, "Very well, phenomenal, but when is English in class?" If you are putting the bar on a level you are not yet able to implant in the classrooms! Of course, English is necessary, and when you're also talking about Basque, I would like you to specify, when you talk about those consensuses, that the consensuses are between nationalists, that they are not cross-cutting and that they are not plural, and that they do not take into account the diversity that exists in this country. Because in the end what we are seeing is that young people, 45% of young Basques are unemployed, and only two out of every ten are emancipated. So, as I was saying, less confrontation and more collaboration; collaboration and support like those also needed by Basque families, lehendakari. This morning I heard you say yes, yes, that it's important about families, isn't it? But, of course, if families are important, why do you cut child support? Why do you cut help to reconcile family and work life? And why doesn't it drive a tax drop, that that will also be very good for all Basque families? For births continue to decline; almost half of these mothers were over thirty - five years old, and the pyramid of the Basque population, according to those who know about this, call it decadence. They're structural problems, lehendakari. That is why, when you are now talking about Basque social security which would guarantee pensions, I want to say to you, lehendakari, if you are able to rise to this rostrum and say that indeed a Basque social security system would guarantee pensioners their pensions under the same conditions. Because while you are lehendakari the number of Social Security affiliates continues to decline, and there are more and more pensioners. As Mr Toña said, in a few years one third of the Basque population will be pensioners. That is why this claim of competition is very legitimate and seems to me very well, but we also had to be aware of what the consequences of those powers are. As I told you, lehendakari, yesterday's recipes aren't worth it. We have to manage with less, and we have to be creative. And that was his challenge, lehendakari, that was his challenge. But, in any case, as a balance sheet, I believe that these three years of government have not really promoted measures, assuming the problems to meet the situation that you yourself described as a national emergency. To modernize Euskadi we need a Basque government that is innovative, more agile and more competitive. Turning to that second axis of the legislature, that of peace and coexistence, you at the beginning of the legislature said that we have much to share, knowing that we need an agreement between different people. And the question is clear: who do we not share in this House what elementary, that killing was, is and will always be wrong? You said this morning that Basque society is an ethical society, and I share that. Then those who do not yet accept this, who do not share this and who do not recognize this, must be pushed to do so. Since you don't get it, now you say that we have to do something all, that we have to move and make self-criticism. Why? Is there any possible way to shape a society like ours, on democratic and coexistence values, if equal efforts are called for from those who have always condemned violence and those who have not yet done so? And look, in this there are two options: either we whitewash the past, or we look honestly in the mirror of history to delegitimize terrorism. And listening to your statements this week, after the arrest of the etarras, I want to ask you directly, lehendakari: Do you think the best thing was not to stop those etarras? In what you call the "ordered end of ETA", what role does Justice play? What you call "ordained end of ETA" means that you play mediators of ETA's interests and that, therefore, your best way out is not a defeat, but an integration into Basque society? Is that your way of delegitimizing terrorism? I believe that there is no possible justification for violence. And no one, except one group here, justifies the violence, because the rest we do not justify either that of ETA, that of the LAGs, that of some agents of tardifranchism, or any of them. But it is an aberration to believe that those who today are imprisoned for murder, or who are intended to pay homage to having been members of ETA, have been people who have given the best of themselves. And that's the knot of the question. In the same way that one cannot mix the abused with the cashier burner, the school stalker, the killing age, the citizen facing the aggressor or the jihadist who dies killing. All this is violence, yes, but they are different phenomena. You acknowledged in June that we were late for the sensitivity and response that the victims deserved. How is it possible that, just three months after that statement, he falls into the same lack of sensitivity and tells us that Basque society at the moment has to pay tribute to ages like José Luis Geresta, who was the subject of Miguel Ángel Blanco while he was shot in the neck, lehendakari! Do you know what the problem is? That you have not yet decided between whitening the past or really focusing on looking honestly at history and delegitimizing terrorism. That is why they have been left alone in the Ponencia de Paz y Convivencia, and they only share it with those who do not yet recognize the damage caused. That is why I propose to you, Lehendakari, that we begin as we left the previous legislature, with that agreement of bases, with that agreement of delegitimizing terrorism, and that we meet in a new paper that yes, that has the basis and that has as its starting point the delegitimization of terrorism. I say this so clearly, Lehendakari, because it must be remembered that the murders of ETA accounted for 92% of the total number of victims of terrorism, and that the Basques need to face the future without the hassles of the past. And finally, lehendakari, I turn to the chapter you call "the future of Basque self-government". And I have to tell you that in the background of this debate you have seen once again that this gives you the opportunity to prolong your agenda of demands and, therefore, your political careers. Because we have everything that others aspire to. I was listening this morning to talk about bilaterality, and we didn't really finish knowing what this is about bilaterality, not us, nor when they ask the Basques on the street either. And I don't know if you guys have it right, actually. Now they also include us another new concept, which is that of the outside nation, somewhat nostalgic. That's a concept of the 19th century, of the Vizcain romantics, lehendakari. We're in the 21st century! That is the great concept that nationalism brings in the twenty-first century! You say we need a new lace. But if the lace is already made, lehendakari! If it's done! Yeah. If we have recognized our uniqueness, our self-government and our unique fiscal capacity in Europe! This is the plural Euskadi, and I don't know if that's exactly what bothers you, that plural Euskadi, and that's why we now come up with this from the single foreign nation. What is this, lehendakari? It sounds very old and very rancid, forgive me! It is that we are in the 21st century, in globalization, in cooperation, and you want to lock us here in a new concept... Well, new... from the 19th century. The case is that we are caught up in the matter of untransferred competences, when the question, in our opinion, is whether we are managing them well. What is your Government's assessment of the management of current transfers? The other day I heard them say that the Statute is in crisis. No, no, no. Don't fool us. What is in crisis is its ability to govern, and these times are proof of it. It seems that here the good managers, which was what you presumed to be, were only in times of goodness, and, my friend, when there is crisis this already changes. Now they're seeing the plumer. And you're seeing them for everything I've described to you and these three years of balance sheet of your management. Because, what element or differential fact have you marked in the management of this economic crisis, having all our self-government? Because we don't have the tools to do it our way! Therefore, lehendakari, in this self-government presentation the People's Party wants to propose to analyze the issue, the management of self-government, during all these years; to promote the decentralization of competences in the Basque Country, and to give greater power to the historical territories, something very different from what, indeed – yes, yes, because those are those who are recognized in the Constitution, and not that new concept – the socialists, who intend to end the singularity of each territory. We of course believe in forality, which is recognized in the Constitution! Everything else, all those proposals that are on the table by your government partner, precisely what is against is the maintenance of that forality. I believe that the Statute must also be adapted to the modernisation of Euskadi, the removal of the privileges derived from the 1979 wording, such as, for example, giving a turn to the concept of the strenghts of public office; promoting transparency and mechanisms for empowering the organs of control of power, and finally promoting the role of civil society. The potentialities of the current Statute are not exploited, let alone the ability to manage the Economic Concert. In our view, what the Basque Country needs is the modernization of the management of self-government and the Statute. And I'm closing up. In a world where things are constantly happening and everything is changing rapidly, it is impossible that tensions do not appear, lehendakari. To coordinate policies is not to give in to self-government; it is to assume the European reality, that of the necessary intergovernmental collaboration. For this reason, please leave the complaint, which, by way of exaggeration, sounds to be of interest, in view of this recentralisation, of the alleged aggravation that always comes from Madrid. He assumes that the general interest of the Basques is due to the fact that Euskadi regains the leading role in Spain and Europe. This is the area in which the talent, entrepreneurial and working skills of Basque society are best served. Find out how to modernize Euskadi, which is what it is and what you committed to three years ago. I remind you, Lehendakari, that you are a minority Lehendakari, who governs you with the support of the Socialist Party. Apart from power, you will know what the benefit is, because, by the results of these years, the truth is that it leaves much to be desired. I conclude by saying that, lehendakari, sincerely analyse your Government's progress on these three axes that you have set for this legislature. And, tell me, have we really advanced to the pace you thought? Are you satisfied with your Government's economic and social measures? Is this all the management capacity of your Government? Look, your atony, your language, and your unbridled staging have become your brand. But in substance, in reality, in what I have tried to describe to you, there is a lot of inaction, parsimony, and too many nationalist priorities, than non-citizens. The Basques expected more from you and, of course, the Basques are worth a lot more. I think the Basques probably expected more, and, without a doubt, the Basques expected much more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. The Mountain, which is the representative of the group of the Basque Socialist, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u8	Good evening, President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Lehendakari, you have one year left in the legislature. He lost the first one. Don't miss the last one. Don't be dragged away by events. Look to the future and resolutely face the challenges of this country for the coming years. You and your party only had one plan, to get to Ajuria Enea. But they didn't have a plan for the Basques, they didn't have a plan on how to build the future of this country. His Government had been content to manage the present, and had renounced leadership of the country. He came up with a plan to cut rights and public services, and he wasted a year. He then reacted, yes, and rectified (today he presumes precisely of all the policies that we forced him to rectify), but he rectified forced by his parliamentary precariousness, and because he feared losing again Ajuria Enea, but not because he thought that with his policies it was the Basques who really lost. And then he attended to what we socialists said: that there were alternatives to cuts, Rajoy's and his. Because socialists always put forward our commitment to Basque citizens. We are in politics to add to efforts, never to overthrow governments. That and only that is what enables you to address this last year of your mandate. And don't waste it: put your government to work. I say this because you continue to take refuge in economic data that do not depend on your management, whether they depend on the Central Bank, or on the price of oil, or on decisions of the European Commission, but with that data you fly over the essentials: the structural damage that the crisis has left on the foundations of this country, the unbearable increase in inequalities, and the impoverishment of the workers and the middle classes. And there are many citizens who think that their children will not have the same opportunities as they have, and hope and security must be restored to them in the future. That is why I am announcing from now on that we will not reach any agreement that would entail a single cut in public services or citizens' rights. He lost his first year, but the next two have made much better use of them. And I say "we" because the Socialists have provided him with tools and alternatives to do so. We now ask you to dare to lay solid foundations for getting out of this situation. Euskadi is richer, yes, but Basques are poorer too. GDP is growing, and wages are falling. Like so many Europeans, here too thousands of workers are waking up every morning to earn their poverty in precarious work. Then they go to Lanbide to complete their miserable salaries with the RGI. And this reality has increased. So, lehendakari, you may get out of the economic recession, but we will not get out of the social crisis. We'll just get out of this with more daring. Stop repeating general data, stop giving us a spec and a display of non-evaluation plans. Don't stay in the shelter until the rain's over. Mr. Urkullu, you've got a year ahead of you. You lost the first one, don't lose the last one. We Socialists want to challenge you for the next twelve months. We don't want to spend time. Our firsts are these: thousands of unemployed, more than two years in search of employment, workers who are to go to the profession of their wages, families in danger of poverty, young men who refuse to be a future of Eukadin, or women who are engaged in the roles of employment. This is the reality on the other side of the statistics coin. What about this? We only find short plans, not plans that think of Eucharin tomorrow. Today, socialists, we want to talk about what we can do this year and what we need to arrange for the next few years. What can we do to guarantee the rights of the Basques, to ensure a salary and employment to live with dignity, to ensure health and education, to support the housing, the human aids that can afford, to ensure the more effective public services. This is about self-generacy, we need to talk about its improvement, but we want to figure out how and why. And I start with employment, because that is the first of citizens' concerns. Socialists are not here to bitter his life, as sometimes some want to interpret. Data is somewhat better than two years ago, yes; there are more hirings and fewer people targeted at Lanbide. This is because more resources are targeted at employment, public services and social protection. The Socialists have facilitated those resources. We have put on the table measures that give opportunities to the long-term unemployed and those who aspire to start their working lives. The instruments are already in place, but his Government has been cut short, lehendakari. It manages them, but has been unable to put in place a comprehensive strategy to ensure that these jobs are decent. And there the data is silly: nine out of ten new contracts are part-time. There are fewer unemployed, but precariousness is the key to access to the labour market. More than half of the unemployed have been unemployed for more than two years. And the fifth part of the GIR collectors are workers with less than 616 euros a month, and half of them have been working for more than three years. And this figure is on the rise. This was the picture we were seeing, but the data was missing, and it was hard for you to give it to us, Mr. President. We've presented a number of questions on the study of work-processing in this legislature. This Chamber has requested you to design this report, because it is an strategic report, because it serves to design policies which can solve this situation. And you didn't bring the report, you didn't do everything you had to do to change things. Again, you seem to be waiting for socialists in a few months, we socialists, we're waiting for you to cancel Rajoy's reforms. But now we have the right to answer. We've often brought the Socialists back to this tribe and we'll bring them back to you today. Competence in labour inspection. We have asked him for a plan to prevent continuing crimes against workers, and we are still waiting for him. It must be a plan for inspectors to monitor these new contracts, these bogus self-sustaining contracts, those unpaid overtime and irregularly paid. Don't just put inspectors to monitor the remaining employees as they can. Above all, put on the watch those who take advantage of the need to mistreat. We have skills in occupational health, and in 2014 there has been an increase in sinestrality. We don't know a plan to cut this bump of accidents. And these accidents have a lot to do with that precariousness. We have continuing training skills. Training programmes are paralysed. We've been denouncing him in this House for half a year. What are you waiting for to put in place the plans that thousands of workers need? Skills in social dialogue. It took two years to call the table. In the second photo he already had some basic agreements, and he has not fulfilled one. The government, lehendakari, goes to that table to lead, not to take notes. So don't miss the year, set up the sustainable building program, get back construction workers, promote rehabilitation in neighboring communities. Initiate the recognition of professional competences. It is needed by the workers who are in ERE. Push the relief contract for young people now. Young people are in a hurry. Their only project for them cannot be that they endure, that they do not seek their life outside of Euskadi, as the counselor said a few months ago. They need alternatives. You already bet on an effective Lanbide, because Lanbide today is a stranded aircraft carrier. We have lines of action, budgets, political, business and trade union coverage. What we need is the leadership of the Government, which will take advantage of this year and look to the future. And looking at the future is connecting all resources, coordinating them. Lehendakari, the Socialists are looking further. The Socialists have reminded him that many of these instruments have been proposed by us. And today I want to offer you one more idea, one more concrete plan. In order not to lose this year, and with the intention of continuing the following, adding all the resources that the various areas of his Government have with the resources of the other Basque administrations, a plan to recover the workers who have been seeking employment and with little hope. I think of those who have experience in construction. Provide them with comprehensive training to learn new energy efficiency and sustainability techniques applied to construction and construction. It already has resources for this. We have introduced them into the last budgets. The rehabilitation companies will thus have a labour force formed for a need of our real estate park: renovation, energy saving and accessibility. The municipalities will also be able to count on them in their local plans, in their urban regeneration projects. And they will also be at the disposal of the parliaments, for the maintenance and improvement of their infrastructures. I propose you win this year for those workers who don't see a future. Sit at the same table for all institutions, connect all needs and connect all resources. We have one of the oldest housing parks in Europe; we have thousands of families with economic difficulties to be able to face those necessary reforms; we have problems in accessibility and energy efficiency, thousands of unemployed workers who know about construction and need training; we have a commitment to reduce energy consumption; we have scattered aid lines. Well, let's put all those tools together. With this plan, in passing, we will make progress in green employment, one of the new employment niches. It bets decisively by him, and also by the niche of information technologies or socio-health employment. And in this I remind you of another outstanding commitment: the creation of a social cohesion fund together with the parliaments. We lay the groundwork for the future protection model, with research, infrastructure and pilot programmes. Let us overcome the debate on aid, and let us already talk about how to really articulate the fourth pillar of the welfare state. Because, yes, we need to reflect on the model of protection we want. In this legislature there are those who have wanted to confront groups who need help, and I am not going to insist on that unfortunate controversy, but I do want to say that I am proud. I am proud as a socialist, because we have seen that solidarity has been above electoral interests. I'm proud as a Basque, because we've been able to build a society that doesn't want to let anyone go. And we are seeing it these days too, with the rapid social and institutional response that we have given to the humanitarian emergency of refugees. And I am proud as a political leader, because this Parliament has been able to live up to the spirit of solidarity of the citizens we represent. The vast majority of Members of this House believe that social fraud should be eradicated, quite frankly, like all frauds. But this is the least of the problems of GIR. The problem with GIR is that there are 65,000 people stuck in this system; that more and more low-wage workers need it; that, although the economy improves, this aid will continue to be needed for many years. And here I want to add, lehendakari, another social alert. In Euskadi there are almost 83,000 single-parent households, by widowhood, divorce or free exercise in solitary motherhood or paternity. The vast majority are headed by women, and half must go to GIR. Poverty, therefore, has increasingly a woman's name. Again they are the pagans of the crisis. But many do not ask us for financial aid; they ask us for institutional support, such as that of large families. They need other birth, reconciliation, housing or education policies, as they do for traditional families. It has cost a lot to conquer women's right to make their own decisions, and it can't be that deciding to be a mother becomes a new glass ceiling. New roof of women whose freedom continues to be attacked. This summer we raised our voices in the face of sexual assaults. Let those voices not drown lost in other matters. They have to be on our agenda. And I ask you again today to rethink the creation of a single window for battered women, because the victims don't have to know the organization chart of the government and guess what window they have to go to. We want a single body to oversee and coordinate all resources to prevent, sensitize and respond to cases of gender-based violence. Lehendakari, this is the social photograph of today's Euskadi. In November we devoted a parliamentary session to it, and most of the resolutions have not been implemented. Here you have the basis on which to build an initiative for the future of this country. And don't miss the year we have left to attend to emergencies waiting for you. Because when are you going to answer to those who can't pay the electricity and gas bills? We have offered you a budget and a formula, there are social organizations willing to collaborate. When are you going to do it? And what about the food reinforcement plans in the educational establishments that this House approved? Nor do we know what public services you want for the next few years. We know how we have guaranteed them over the past three years, and we Socialists know that because we prevented them from being cut off, and because with tax reform we have made resources available to keep them. But public services need workers who make them possible, and their executive lives in permanent conflict with them, with whom the flagship ships of our self-government make possible. It has called for clearly inadequate job offers in health and education. In EITB, with the help of EH Bildu and implementing Rajoy's labour reform, it has completed the first ERE of a public enterprise, while Basques continue to flee their public radio and television. The Ertzaintza does not have a defined model for the coming years, its horizon ends in 2016. This is the present of these services. What's the future? Because he has given up negotiating with Madrid improvements in the replacement rate, as did the executive that preceded him. He has renounced a plan that guarantees generational relief, as we have been proposing. The public employment law is pending, and the new draft still lacks the trade union agreement and the ESC has already told it to look at it and correct it before bringing it to this House. By the way, speaking of the ESC, his analysis of his commitment to innovation and research should make him rethink his government's desire for power points. The investment in R+D+i keeps it below the bar that inherited from the lehendakari Patxi López, but in addition the management is ineffective: few patents, scientific publications without practical results, doctors in unemployment due to lack of connection between training and productive tissue, less investment in software... Lehendakari, it is necessary to connect research with industry, especially with SMEs; to connect knowledge with the development of the country. We need a long-term commitment, and the socialists have already taught him the way: it's called a pact for research. We need to strike a balance between basic research, applied research, technological development and innovation. That requires a compromise of the future, and you have rejected it in this Parliament. That's betting on competitiveness, that's raising eyesight. Look also at the future with our education. Trilingualism must be encouraged with conviction. Now you do it to trompicones and unequally according to the centers, and look, you haven't even mentioned it in your speech. And I see, that with this topic a social gap can be opened, because there are students who can strengthen English outside the classroom, and those will be able to be competitive in the future, but others, those with fewer resources, cannot, will be satisfied with what there is, and will run the risk of being excluded. Euskadi's future after the crisis is already being played out in our classrooms and in trilingual education. Be determined, lehendakari, bet, don't lose this year, and look at all that generation. This is a generation that needs an Englishman and has an axis of education. That's how it should be. But look at these young men and especially at the future of our language. Let us all look to the future of the Euskar, which is more known, but which is not yet used to its future. We have a new challenge, and we have to give new answers, we have to review our language policy in the way of the agreement. And let us begin with, because the demand of excessive demand for language does not guarantee the use of language. We have to take advantage of this year's announcement. And even in the health industry, we must take advantage of the year. You've got to finish the HAU integration, there's a problem with the professionals, we haven't yet subactors at Gaste, poor hepatitis Cdects are still waiting for treatment, the treatment of all the patients. The ideal must be public, for we have requested the majority of this legislature. And you've got to make a bigger effort to get everyone who has the right to pay at the chemist's. And there have been other things done in that department: photos, photos before projects that the counselor blocked. Now he poses proud in Biocruces, which comes, thanks to him, later, smaller and more expensive. There, in that department you have a clear example of how to lose a whole year. Socialists let them design a chronic strategy, and let him design Biocruces, Txagorritxu external consultations, Eibar and Urduliz hospitals, and many other strategies. Those are future projects. They'll take the photo of the counselor who was so opposed to them, but they'll take the design and the socialist impulse. And let's look up with the house, too. The new law comes into force the day after tomorrow. We ask you to develop the proposed regulations, but we also demand you, lehendakari, to defend those powers with the same force with which you defend others. Because this is not about doing what you do, which seems to be what your Government wants. Here the questions are: Do we have exclusive competences in housing, as the Statute says?; Do we have the power to establish a canon on empty dwellings, as we put a canon on water use?Do we have the powers to regulate the use of private dwellings as intended by your Government, which are used for tourist rentals? If your Government believes you do, defend them with all the emphasis, and, if the answer is not, review all your grandiose discourse on self-government. Because, lehendakari, maintaining public services to preserve citizens' rights was and is essential in the midst of a crisis. It has relied on socialist collaboration to make it possible, but you have failed to look to the future, expand those rights in the use of your competences and design strategies that make them safe, especially in the coming decades. And a future, too, that must also be built on solid foundations of memory and coexistence, that is not built with photos, and they are not built by diluting ETA with other terrorist gangs. ETA still exists, we have checked it again this week, but it is not condemned by all of us. The other terrorist gangs no longer exist, and they are condemned by all. It's important to remember. The victims are relieved that they continue to work for truth and justice, detaining those who are supposed to be responsible for their pain, but on the left abertzale is uncomfortable with them arresting alleged terrorists. Don't forget. The solid foundations are not built trying not to bother the left abertzale and disturbing the victims. The solid foundations are built on firm principles, on ethics, saying clearly that killing was always wrong, in all cases. With these principles we have promoted the memorial of victims of terrorism and we have launched the Institute of Memory, two initiatives of the past legislature, the result of a common ground and the will to agree. The rest? propaganda and very little effectiveness. Just ivory for aiding the prisoners, but no new measures. There's been a lost legislation going on in this area. Today, September 2015, we're like 2012. So we Socialists began with confessionals, which, I believe, we did, with legal security, with caution, and the prospects of agreement, so we worked. It's still a little notice, yes, we have to move forward, but not at all, we need accuracy and agreement. It is no good, lehendakari, that every fiasco of your Government tries to solve it with a media effect. We ask you to work in memory and repair with the most effective method we have found, and where we have always ended up finding ourselves: with consensus, with rigor and discretion. We do not want this legislature to fail in this matter. He knows that we do not open sterile debates, but he also knows that we will blame him for all the mistakes he makes, both because we can agree with almost everything he says, but not with what his Government does. Socialists have been in all the work of memory, because we assume with conviction that no one should have killed, kidnapped, tortured or threatened; that neither a terrorist nor a torturer should have been killed, because for both of us there must have been a trial; that we reject any justification for ETA or the LAG; that no one who died or was injured by police excesses can be spared for lack of recognition and reparation. There are many victims who are still waiting for our response, and neither can they afford to lose this last year of the legislature. We have to make a general plan for the eupcals of the next generation. The plan to renew the agreement obtained by the state of Guernica, to update it, to see all that has gone well, better to go, to add, or to destroy, in order that the young men, who follow, may make the text their own. It's obvious that some things aren't right. For instance, there is not a constant blockade of powers in the state, that is to say, what Rajoy has done, in order that it may not happen again in the future. And when we want it, it's also clear that things work well, it's obvious that we're building the bond of well-being in the Eukadin, and it's also obvious that we're fostering the economy. It's obvious that we've succeeded through the Economic concert, that the concert has guaranteed these rights, that economic activity. All this is why we socialists want to build a strong, safe, social, useful, and solidarian self-genera. There, Lehendakari, as you know, the agreement with the Socialists is possible; it is possible if you want to update the Statute from the point of view of legality and with the maximum consensus, which was the parliamentary mandate. He knows our historical and current commitment, he knows in person the willingness of the secretary general of PSOE to move forward on this line. That is why I reject the discussion of the essences. Socialists are not nationalists, we are not going to assume the different envelopings of nationalist aspirations, be it right to decide, bilaterality or any other linguistic disguise, such as that of the outside nation, which is their last finding. Call our proposal as you wish, but I can explain it to you very quickly. Socialists want to reform the Statute to strengthen our social rights and our public services. We want to do it as legally planned. We want it in a collaborative project with the rest of Spain. On that ground we can always meet, on others not. In independence, in self-determination and other nationalist demands he will not find us. His group proposed the presentation, agreed with us on the mechanism. It's your responsibility to decide where you want to take her. And it is true, our Statute is the only one that is not up to date. Something will have to do with the waste of time in the last decade. That debate is now open here, and the opening of constitutional reform is imminent. Well, well, we have a chance to go with each other, we have a chance to do it right. We are on turbulent days, but in Euskadi we have learned many lessons. In the past decade, we have been struggling with rupturist plans; we already know that politics cannot be made as those who play the mus, because the ponies in politics end up being paid by the citizens, their rights, their prosperity, the coexistence of the societies to which they belong, and we would do well not to fall into that game. We have a good ground to review the reviewable, which is called constitutional reform, and statutory reform at the service of the welfare of the Basques, from broad consensus and through legal channels. There have never been these circumstances in Euskadi, lehendakari. If thirty-five years ago it was possible, between the noises of bombs and sands, if in these three decades the bombs and the shots have not managed to annihilate those agreements, now the agreement also has to be possible. But those outward reforms cannot elude the reforms inward, those in our hands, those that do not depend on anyone else. We must reform the LTH, make it a law of collaboration and cooperation between the different Basque administrations. Competence needs to be clarified, duplication removed and more effective. It may seem theoretical, unpractical, it may seem like a commitment of this party, but more effectively, with less duplicity, we spend less on things that citizens don't need, and with that we don't spend on the unnecessary we will have more resources than allocating to employment, to the productive economy, to meet social needs. Reforming this law will make it possible to advance the equal rights, benefits and services of all Basque citizens, regardless of the territory in which they reside. And the Socialists have already brought this proposal to the House. We expect receptivity to work on it. We want to think that we all seek that greater efficiency from collaboration, and the field of discussion of municipal law can pave that path. And we need to start thinking about a consensual review of our tax system as well. Two years ago the socialists managed to untie a PNV anathema: we made a reform that has proved effective, not only to obtain more resources, but to gain in justice and progressive. There is still work to be done in the fight against fraud, as agreed, but we put 2016 as the goal or as the date to evaluate these measures and address new ones, and this year we have to take advantage of it also to do that reflection. There is a lot of work, lehendakari, for the urgency of this course and to lay the foundations for the future. Euskadi has been running for the past two years; this Parliament has imposed a social agenda on a paralyzed government. The Socialists have caused this shift, in the budgets, with concrete proposals transferred to concrete agreements, forcing compensation for pharmaceutical replenishment to the lowest incomes, gesturing agreements that guarantee by law the right to housing. That is what the Socialists have been doing, and that is what we will continue to do in the future: to propose measures to get out of the social crisis and lay the foundations for the employment of the future, for the health of the future, for the education of the future, for the administration of the future. That's what we need. But it takes a government and a lehendakari to respond to these proposals with determination, a government and a lehendakari capable of offering a project of progress and modernization of Euskadi. We need a government and a lehendakari that guarantee equality between citizens and cohesion between territories; a government and a lehendakari that face demographic, cultural, migratory, technological economic challenges... We need a government and a lehendakari with a project of coexistence between Basques, who lead the institutional reforms that this country needs, from consensus, dialogue and legal channels. Lehendakari, you and your Government have shown that you have no response to the great challenges facing this country. That is why we need a government and a lehendakari that look beyond the next election dates, a lehendakari that thinks of the next generations rather than the next elections; a government and a lehendakari occupied with the needs of people and their concerns; a government and a lehendakari with the capacity to repair the serious social damage that the crisis has caused. We need, in short, a government and a lehendakari capable of offering hope to that majority of citizens who look to the horizon with uncertainty. Lehendakari, the Basques cannot afford to lose this year, but neither can the country lose the opportunity to ride on the train of the future. Let's not lose this year, lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mr. Ariz, representing the EH Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u10	Good afternoon, everyone. When it's the least expected, life goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on. Something of this kind has happened to me lately, especially since I was told that in a few months I shall be the father of two daughters. You all know what it's like to look at everything from that moment forward. And that's what happened to me. I've changed my way of looking at the world a little. But I'm not the only one here in four pairs, not the least. Our Lurie has just brought two boys into the world on our own, and Unai brought another. If I'm not mistaken, even if Ana Otdu hasn't got a baby, even Natalia Rojo, and I think Arancha brought a son, and I think the Borja is waiting too. I know them and I'm sure there'll be more of them and I forgot. There are other members on our team who have been their father or are about to be. Well, this legislation has given but little politically, but we cannot say that it has been a sterile legislation. Good luck to all of you. As I have said before, the bringing of children into this world transforms our view, has altered it to me at least, and I have replaced the rhetorical question with a carnal doubt on the following generations: Which Basque Country do I want to leave my daughters? Because you'll understand that the world is too big to change for me alone. The question is not new, because the problem is old, but today I have a privileged tribe to respond to in the name of the Basque Country. 1775 years without knowing the peace of generation, forced to live in conflict with all the generations of the Basque People for seventy-four years. And I don't want to leave my kids that. Ours must be the last generation that has lived in conflict, the threat of violence, death, tortures, imprisonments, exiles, and the last generation that has suffered the waters of any human right. Four years ago, with the expression of the Aitété, Euscala began to write the end of the cycle that bathed the people with violence. Let us not deceive ourselves, we are in a more difficult situation than the day before yesterday; Some resolutions taken in Madrid do not place themselves in the sphere of closeness or blindness, because they are purely irrational. Because in the presence of the best opportunity ever to close the cycle of forces in this country, he has decided to do the hardest of all that a state government has ever encountered: he has refused the interview, and has repeatedly attacked the organization who is ready to disarm himself, preventing the very process of disarming. It's clear that this isn't Colombia, you're lucky. I don't know whether David Pla and Irche Sorral were meant to end his armed activity once and for all in October 2011, all the sources of information say. What is the meaning of the arrest of those who made this decision? And it's over with those who decided the arrests. Do they really think that's the end of it? And those who after this operation require him to be dissolved, to whom do they ask of an institution that has no direction? And who's going to decide? Since the pressure of sending the delegation from Norway, the Spanish Government has been looking for this moment. What then? Such Securcrats, who have acted on this object, ought to express their true intentions. One, they don't want to end the fight, they don't want to close the cycle of forces once and for all because they don't love peace, true peace. Two, they require an enemy, thinking that their political weakness can only be concealed behind an enemy. A particular Spanish paper has led him to the category of the editorial, and has written thus against the thesis of his master: "Even if these are arrests and deaths, others can be re-entered with other Siglas. They keep looking for the enemy, and if they can't find him, they invent it." In Madrid these securracts, which have multiplied in the shade of the cycle of violence, will compel the succeeding generations of Basque citizens to live in conflict. But we will not leave them and not allow them to live in peace and freedom. This is the will of the popular majority, and we will listen to it. Our children ought not to know the deaths of violence, our children ought not to know what it is to live under threat, our children ought not to visit the prison, our children ought not to grow up in exile. I know it's too late for some of us, too. Because it's always too late to make peace. But in this country, for peace, for peace, for peace, for peace, we have the best chance of living in peace, and we must never lose it. We will not allow any one to reject this opportunity of closing the cycle of forces once for all, because their power, however great, is a greater determination to the peace of this people. And we will tell our children in the decades all that has happened in this country. What we did and did to us, what we caused and what we caused. And we'll tell our children that violence is always the worst way, even when we think there's no other way. We will also show that peace, justice, is a respect for all the rights of all men, and that no one can impose upon them what they are, whether the girl or the boy, the Spaniard or the citizen of Esscal, will be what they feel themselves to be alone. Because we want them free and happy in a free country. And to-day I will send a clear message from this tribe of Parliament. We'll solve the conflict from the roots to the final conclusion. We'll bring all the prisoners home and we'll get peace once and for all. Our commitment is to ensure that this process is irreversible. When we travel around the world we are often asked that, in a unilateral process of these characteristics, what is the guarantee that there will be no return to violence. And we say, "We are the guarantee." Because if someone wants to reopen the cycle of violence, they're going to have us in front of them. Our commitment is to the determination of this people to live definitively in peace and freedom. Today some menace us every day, without losing a single chance, with the past. They threaten us with the past as a trench between winners and losers. They threaten us with the past as a bold weapon in the party dispute. They threaten us with the past as a barrier to the advance of Basque independence. For to those who threaten us day by day with the past, in a vain attempt to contain the future, we tell them that if we can talk about the past today it is for us and ourselves, for what we and we have done, and because some like Arnaldo Otegi continue to be in prison it is for what they at this time can talk about the past. However, others cannot speak of the past, because the human rights violations they suffer are painfully present. We would like those who put so much effort into talking about what has already happened to put a little more effort into trying to improve the present of all those Basque and Basque citizens scattered in Spanish and French prisons hundreds of kilometres from their families. Because peace is a respect for all rights. As long as this law has lasted, we have said it, and shall repeat it again: The law, its political team, is following the euscal society, very much because it is going on without our help in the community of euscal, living on its own account. Meanwhile, we can't even sit around a table here. The Basque Country is still ready to set up a peace and a partnership of work. Without any condition to any one, and all the rest taking upon us. We accepted it as a basis for starting the crew, and we accepted the document as a foundation to seat all the political parties around a table. But they say it's no use. Who's here who doesn't want to talk about peace and life? Those who don't want to talk about peace and life here are the same people who think there's no right to decide, that is to say, the susceptions of the PP and PSOE party. Antonio Gramsci wrote long ago: "The old world is dying, the new world is not yet born, and in the dark between the ways monsters are born." Something similar is happening in the Spanish State. Even if the atmosphere of political change is felt, it does not seem that the relations of force will be much changed yet. Old Spain has not yet died, and it does not allow the new Spain to be born into a democratic state. Meanwhile, the monsters hidden in every corner of the state began to threaten Katalunia. This strategy of fear expresses at least three things. Well, on September 27th, there's more at stake than mere autonomical elections. Or can anyone imagine a contractor in the autonomical elections that will be here in October next year? Big, using tanks as a threat is no longer credible, and even if it's just a little bit of it, we've moved on. Higa, the Spanish State apparatus are convinced that the independence of Catalonia may be possible, otherwise why Obama, Merl, Aznika, and Philip Gonzaule, the chief bank, the whole hierarchy of the church, the professional football and Pronovias also moved. PP and PSOE feel the fear they seek to spread and spread in Katalunia, and are afraid of what the Catalurians can decide by freedom. We're not going to say that Catalonia is the state we all dreamed of, of course not. We know that as a people which will reach the future with its own hands, in the course of the next months and years, it will be necessary to face the obvious difficulties, the Spanish State, with its self-civilistical and anti-democratic nature, will attempt to prevent or prevent the independing process of Catalonia. At this decisive moment, besides the will of the popular majority, the Catalunians will have the strength of the consent of the organized civil society, and of the democratic political parties. And it's no small capital. And we hope to attain their best dream. And in the meantime, what are we doing here? .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Did the Catalonians lock up the Spanish Constitution and see if they can open the door? Arms crossed over there? Or shall we make another round of the lectures on the auto-engineer? In the Basque Country we know how PP and PSOE stand up to political problems because we've tried all their recipes in our leather. That is why we must make it clear, there is no time to be in the darkness at this moment. He who does not take a clean attitude towards the right of deciding which belongs to the catalonians as a nation, agrees with that of the Spaniards of eternal nationalism. Anyone who does not take a clear and unambiguous stand at the moment in favour of the right to decide freely and democratically for Catalans and Catalans is actively collaborating with the most exclusive Spanish nationalism, the one we suffer from from the 36th to the present day. And taking advantage of the right to decide in Catalonia cannot and should not be limited to a formal declaration free of commitments. At this historic moment when the determination of the Catalan people leads him to, by routing and overcoming all the obstacles and threats imaginable, open the doors of independence to create his own state, this Parliament cannot and should not be limited to being the first one to recognize the independent Catalan State. I have no doubt that it will be a great honour to be the first Parliament to recognize the independent Catalan State, but at this historic moment, where the Spanish State once again shows the worst version of itself, both in Catalonia and in Euskal Herria, our historic task is to launch the Basque constituent process of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, because putting our own constituent process in motion is the best contribution we can make to the Catalan independence process. The Basque Country doesn't refuse to argue on the team on the self-generacy, not at all. We know that in the legislature there will be an indispensable political agreement, which is to be protected by a large majority of members of the legislature. From this day forward we must say that we have all the will to accomplish this vast consent, in order to give the people the word and the final decision. I'll say more. The Basque Country will put an agreement proposal on the mahia. We shall propose to unite on two axes; one is to make up for the present the right of the historical rights belonging to the Basque People. Two, he will only limit the degree of jurisdiction which ought to be given to this Autonomy member, but only the will of the people of Araba, Biscay, and Gipu, and in this political agreement we need also the means of giving the people the word and the decision. On the 10th of October, EH Bilk Arabs, Bischaeans, and guitarists will be presented to the citizens for the power of making their citizens, and we will leave them in their power, in order to obtain contributions and improvements. The law on the empowerment of the citizens of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa seeks to be a legal instrument to make Basque citizens protagonists of the most important political decisions in their lives; that is why we will present it in public square and then bring it to Parliament. It is not an instrument for confrontation between parties, but an honest search for ways to deepen democracy, because we honestly think that the current democracy is completely inadequate, the current representative democracy is completely inadequate, and we firmly believe that the citizens of Euskal Herria must be protagonists of the important decisions that as a society we have to make in the coming times. In this way, if there were any political will on all sides, we should be able to consult the Arabs, the Vicharians, and the Gupullians in the year 2016. We may use this to change the law of the Himistric Lands, or we may use it to determine what manner of relations this Autonomy of Erria wills with the rest of the Basque Lands, or why not, we can make up our minds to determine what relation we want of the Kingdoms of Spain. But we want the Basque People to decide how the conditions of work should be, or what kind of social protection system we need in this Middle-American Autonomy. We got a lot of data here today. All this data had only one purpose to convince them that they are doing a better economic and social situation. It's normal, we understand that whoever's in charge won't say anything worse and worse ever since he's in the government. And sometimes, even if reality is stubborn, they always find the data we want to find. He has spoken of the recovery of the economy, but without denying that many citizens live well in Araguai, Bukka, and Gipuzian, our chief concern is that the number of Basque citizens in a difficult situation and in a state is not diminished in recent years, and that their condition is becoming permanent. A very few jobs have been created, because they still continue to destroy jobs, and most of the jobs that have been created are very pretors; for example, over 90%, 40% remain less than a week old. They're becoming the state of most unemployed people and nearly 60% of them don't take any preparation, the rest remain in the hands of the protective system, but today there are 70,000 citizens who are already out of our protection system, left in misery, of course most of them are women. I've started talking about children who haven't been born yet. All fathers and mothers want their children to grow up and be happy in life. And if they want to leave the Basque Country, they'll have to accept it against their will, but no one wants to feel obliged to get away from their son or their daughter to leave the Basque Country because he can't find work here. Such is now the obstinate reality: Our young people don't find jobs in the Basque Country and leave. After a few years of abroad, some will come back, some won't, others will stay there. And we'll lose all that human capital, in most cases, a highly qualified work-man's hand. The society of euscals, older and older, cannot lose its young because it is very poor politics. The priority of our economy, our model of growth, our infrastructure, our strategic future of our industry, must be our own masters. The Spanish Government has recently referred to the consequences of the neglect of the State of Guernica. $17 billion, it's not a few, it's $17 billion, for how many years? That's the only name he's treated is bad. Abuse sustained by the Spanish State to Basque society. And we agree with the government party that there is no need to tolerate it for a single year. The Basque society needs its own institutions to manage both social security and VAT and excise duties, of course. And that's not the future. That was supposed to be the day before yesterday. This is the finding of the failure of a relationship model. The relationship between the State and the Autonomous Community does not work, and Spain will not give any more, it will never give more. Let this Government know that, in any case, it has EH Bildu to start any path it deems appropriate to take with these powers as soon as possible. Let us not forget that we, unlike in Catalonia, collect the taxes of the citizens of this Autonomous Community; therefore, the money is here, and if we want to stay here. But it often seems to us that this government often employs the want of independence as an excuse, in order to continue to apply more calmly the neoliberic policies which otherwise would otherwise apply them. We need policies to be made for the good of the citizen, projecting the privilege of the people who are passing the worst, and the economy of the future. We do not know whether our children will have a right to live here with dignity. We are almost certain that they will live worse than we are, and if we follow this road, it will be a deeper and deeper crack between those who live well in the Basque society and those who are in the deepest condition. In Catalonia, they say, they want the state because they represent a new people, a state that supports all the social rights of all the people. We want our own state here in the Basque Country, the larger the self-generate, the more extensive the well-being, the autonomism says. Thus, according to this logic, independence in the Basque Country is the only way to guarantee social justice. "EH Collector wants to do that, that all citizens of euscal, with great dignity, may possess all the social rights that they have not yet been born, may be worthy of their children." To achieve it, it is to own their political and social future. Let them be the second generation to decide their future in this country, our first. And so, as Lluis Llach, a Basque People's intimate friend, we also are "tosudament alolas, proclamant el nom, el temps i el illoc que ens dol i pertany emb punys oberts, si cal ambs elnys ptancatas, per mor que somni que ten juns facie." Standing on the wall, it hurts us, and proclaims our names, time and place, if you like, with your hand open, when you have to tie your fist together, that the dream we have together may be possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ray. Mr. Egibar, the Egibar, who is the representative of the team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u12	"We have a strong foundation that will lead us to a higher state of hope," said the President this morning, when he was about to begin his speech. There was a song and there was, at least, a certain one of the Oscars who said, 'They've opened a window for despair,' though later he says, 'but they'll hardly see it.' But I think it's true that the hopes of this town, the windows, and the doors of this country are to be opened among all. Therefore, when a dispute arises about the state of politics, it is, of course, the exercise I make, the President, who has made it from his point of view of government, to examine all those factors which affect us, why, in the end, politics is to be obliged to move between the conditions, and to take the most proper decisions, and to distinguish our powers from our weaknesses. And it has been mentioned, that various speakers have spoken of, but have had a direct influence upon us, and have, for example, a number of men and women who seek a place through the world by the wars of Syria or Iraq or Afghanistan, or by the elections of Catalonia, of course, and by elections at the end of the year in the Spanish State. And I'd like to emphasise one. The subject of the refugees has at length been mentioned, and it is evident that they have left the whole, few or many of them behind, and that in this case, driven by war, and carried on by poverty, they are knocking at the door of Europe and our house, and that they are in our house. And here at least we must reflect, and when we mention the subject of the refugees, we do not at least consider or treat those who come to our house by poverty. And I do not believe that the colour of the skin ought to be peculiar in this subject, why it is that the origin, the existence of Syria, and the absence of Africa, is necessary to a consideration from our view. In the end, where are our strengths again to deal with all these problems? As a person, it is evident that he is in respect of all the human rights of individuals, even of collective rights, of public rights, of rights, of justice, of social justice, and at last those eternal values are also the keys of the future. The President mentioned that, as far as his activity is concerned, he wanted to emphasisize the stability of the institutions as a value. And so do we. The recovery of the economy, the possibility of creating new employments, even the steps to settle the maintenance of life, is much easier to push from the stability of the organizations, it is better, it is more effective, each of us than to be on its own side. The transparent, sharp, the basic services are guaranteed by Economics, health, and social protection, which, of course, tried to refresh the economy and create new jobs. And as a country, we have a political structure to guarantee our social, economic, political future. There's the key. He's made a kind of mess of all the departments. I'm not going to go into that restaurant, the beginning from transparency, the cohesion of society, the competition, the job, the first sector, the justice, the health and the finances, education, New Year 2020, professional education, the Euskazan book, the culture, the health policy, the environment and the country, and the outside relations. All this presupposes as a whole the activity of the Government, and has done what I think ought to do in politics, and what is done by ourselves, as head of the Government, and as the master of the law, which at this moment is now the business of the Government. And also, to the future, tell us what we have to do or what the government wants to do with the support of this group. And here is a first point, which I would like to touch, why, from the different spokesmans, that is, a kind of legal calendar and government activity. And it is true, that 29 Laws were ordained for the Law of the Law, and 27 were to come before the Second Child; and 16: 11. There are Lieutenants, and three of them, when the Sectors themselves require them. And it is true that there is a certain attenuary or a lock in this parliament. But I think that, as we confess, others also must confess in your parliamentary activity... There is also a philibusterism with its own proper meaning in Parlamenarism. And this is not only a conversation that extends and extends, for time's sake, but it has its effect, and in order to present corrections, delays are forming in the transfer of the law. And it is true, and it must be admitted, that if a Government should imagine a triangle in this undertaking, there is a Presupust, Laws, and Plans at every point. And it is true also that this government gave a command to accept the 14 planets apart from the law, and that 13 have already been admitted and working. For this reason, knowing the limits of our auto-generacy, but seeing the future we know that we have strong columns because we have an autoberon built on the popular throne, it is clear that the President sees the end of the law he draws. With a new push, how not, round three main columns: economic activity, peace and co-operation, and this new political status. I'll stick to the economy. It has also been mentioned, and it is quite clear, that I am a positive subject, though they are very modest, and that economic activity is improved, but at the same time it must also be acknowledged that we have had two years, the last two years, the wind has been favourable. I believe that the wind has been favourable, from one policy of the money in Europe, the growth of the world on the other, and the lowness of the cost of the first materials, in the medium of energy, has helped. And as this has been the case, it is also evident that the wind has begun to change, and that those who are the males of China and of the people have become worse, or that their march is diminished. And we all know that the Chinese cold supposes in Europe something more serious, and that cough there is a cold in other places, and in places it can be pneumonia. Hence, from what direction the development of the economy can go, it is evident that this government must invent in its undertakings. All these factors will have an effect, but apart from proper management, as far as they can, so far as possible is clear that this government must endeavour to promote the agreement between different institutions. As it is possible in the near past, considering the political parties in different colours, it was a matter of agreement. You know, it's all about computers, too, and it's like, "You know, it's like, "You know, it's all fucked up." With this stability and prudence, strict management, and even transparent, but in order to preserve people, and to provide for our economy, and to provide for our corporations. In advance, it was said how much it had spent. What I'm convinced of is something, and the data, the president, is going to give more exactly what's going on or what's right. But what's clear is that every department's head is capable of spending a hundred or more. And if there's a change in incomes, that's an effect on all the institutions, and of course for you too. In the last 30 years of industry, euscal economy has been an engine, but between 2007-2014 it is also clear that it has lost weight. From that apartment, 28,5, it's almost five points down, although it's re-establishing itself at this moment. And what's clear is that eroscal industry competes around the world with what economy? For instance, with the economy that's cheaper on their hands. Even if you consider now the burden of energy for the Escal economy or the Esscal industry, the competition throughout the world, both in Europe and America must compete with it all. I'd like to remark that the heart of the proposition that M.M. was made for that purpose, as the President mentioned, is to be more advanced in manufacturing models or how these developments should be supported in the strategic level. The way he competes nowadays throughout the world, you can say that he's at this moment struggling well across the world. If you have a request, you must know that in an hour or two, but what is clear is that you must compete in this vast world. And to make it all happen, it's true as long as you can, and that's the decision that he has to help, you have to protect the Basque industry. And I say euscal industry, not manufactures, or what I do not know; no, because the future is derived from the industry, the euscal industry, the masters, the industry, and the workmen. And in all these processes, the purpose of the government is to increase innovation. Second, aid in internationalization. It's mentioned, there's a bit of fun between you and the pimps and the trade class. Another tool that finally helps our industry. Same thing about innovation and research and funding. Those are the columns. Finally for what? To continue the investing of the companies in it, and also to see what conditions we offer to the industry, the economy. And that's why we have to have the aractives, we have to be sweet. And that's the only way to create tools and conditions. And I think that's what it's all about, you know, when you're talking about your loss, especially the lack of young people, what kind of help you need to offer. It's also known that the rate of unemployment is going down, but it costs a lot to create new jobs. At least it takes a lot of time to create strong jobs, and those born in industry are strong, they last in time. And that will ask for his time. But we speak of them, and confess where the bounds are. Second section, peace and co-operation. I would not like to disturb my message here in the past, but there are two thoughts and a conclusion. One about victims and violence. In plenary, as far as development is concerned, some interventions say expressly..., I conclude that there are those who do not want to recognize the existence of other victims. They recognize some, but they do not want to recognize others, because they seek a partial memory of what has happened. ETA has an untransferable responsibility, but very serious things have happened here, since the 1960s, 1970s and even well into the 1980s, and we must also say that we still do not know the whole truth about the LAG. We don't know the whole truth about the LAG. There are still victims of the LAG and the Spanish Basque Battalion who have not been recognized (no, don't point out that the Spanish Basque Battalion was also playing there), and others who, having been recognized, have still denied the right to compensation. That's real here today. I think we have to face that reality. And this is not feeding the theory of conflict, Mr. Maneiro. It's not feeding the theory of conflict. It is to have an integral vision, and also to recognize that the rule of law was not so much the rule of law on many occasions. And that also requires a shared vision. And while I say that, there are also those who do not want to analyze and evaluate specifically what the violence of ETA has entailed. They have no problem categorizing the violence of the LAG or what the Spanish Basque Battalion or the police abuses might be, but they do avoid the critical analysis of what ETA has meant. They want to make a totum revolutum in which everything is drawn. ETA violated human rights, and I believe that today a commitment to human rights is absolutely incompatible with a forgetful look at what ETA's action was in violation of human rights. It's not compatible. Therefore, we have to overcome those partial visions of what violence has meant and we have to incorporate an integral vision. End of violence. I wonder: Do you think that a police end securely guarantees total disarmament and a complete disappearance of ETA? I would say that the end of ETA requires by the Spanish government less triumphalism, less unilaterality and more prudence. An orderly end to violence must ensure safe and real disarmament, and must also ensure the safe and complete disappearance of ETA. There can be no situations in which weapons are given out of control, or militants out of control, or an acronym out of control. That is the proposal that this Government has repeatedly transferred to the institutions and agents concerned, and that it has had the silent response at best, if not the rejection. Reflection, or I wonder: can the end of an organization like ETA be managed worse? (I mean the abertzale left itself.) Can it be managed worse? I believe that it is made from the most absolute self-sufficiency, and out of any sense of reality, a hypothesis that leads us to have, after four years, still ETA not have a protocol of disarmament, of verification of the authenticity of that decision. And that's not what I'm saying to the People's Party, I referred to in the first part... I am referring to those who correspond to it within the left abertzale: Can it be done worse? Can it get any worse? Simply, no serious, effective steps have been taken, neither in disarmament nor in the recognition of the damage caused, nor the prisoners... After that announcement in late 2013, then, I don't know where the development of that manifesto of the collective of prisoners has remained. They have had on the table, they still have on the table the Hitzeman proposal, also the disarmament proposal, and the Zuzendu proposal. I would summarize it in three sentences or three concepts. I think that, as is obvious, steps must be taken to move forward, and there is a reference that is sure: when you have doubts, you have to observe what society thinks. And society is clearly and unequivocally manifesting itself over three definitions. First, ETA must take unilateral steps in disarmament and its disappearance (that is a majority requirement); the Spanish Government must change the prison policy (that is another requirement), and I believe that institutions and political parties must build a process of agreements. That is the idea, and I just want to dress up with a reflection, because every time I attend an act I hear many times from the interveners the word "report". Looks like we've got a fight or a fight for the story. I want to incorporate a reflection of the present: that also what we are doing in the present is a story; that for four years up to now it has been a long time, and that it is also part of the story what are the statements, the sufficiency or inadequacies in the statements of each other, and the positions. And I say, I add: the positions, or are sincere, have authenticity and are believed, and they are given the value they have... Because if the positionings occur as a result of the requirement of a script are not sincere, and one notes. So, I think... I tell the Secretary General of Peace and Co-existence on many occasions that neither should we give more heads than the strictly necessary ones. That is, if you do not want to talk about your past or your present, then you have a perfect right to do so. Another thing is that then the trust that is projected to society is one or the other. Then there are those who have determined that they do not want to make that critical reflection of the past. Because today, too, an approach has been made to present-to-future principles. And I already know that it entails an extraordinary difficulty to qualify the past, because others also took a great deal of time. Since 1987 that the LAG disappeared, until 2003, that there were still people in Guadalajara, there is a game of years! And then, later, the linked political formation also took a stand with regard to the LAG. Apparently, it should be a matter of time. All I want to stress is that the absences and shortcomings in the present are also a narrative. It's a story. And there we too have already learned our own lessons, and time will tell who wants to move forward and who does not. We have referred, he has referred to self-government, in particular to the reports submitted by the Basque Government, and there is one in particular that always comes out to shine, that we start to talk about the possible or theoretical consequences and we see discussion about what the spokesman of the Basque Government, for example, said at that press conference. And it is the confirmation that in the report, as it could not be otherwise, after thirty-six years, there is obviously a competition title referring to the economic system of social security, which is 18.2, the fifth transitional..., etc., etc. And people start talking about what the consequences can be. I repeat: those who believe in the Statute of Autonomy, or claim to believe in the Statute of Autonomy, that they comply, that they comply. And I am not going to refer again to the authentic interpretation, which would be that of the Socialist Party of the 1980s, which we already know it prescribed, but, of course, what they cannot do is to commulgate us with its prescription. No, no, And that's the way it is. Election programme for the year 80. The last time we read it, Eguiguren told me to see where he had gotten that program. Well, well, you know where. And I'm going to counter that false argument that someone's doing us the favor of not transferring, because, the rest, this was going to be a ruin. No, no, I believe that first we must tell the retired, or the retired, Basque or Basque, that the state does not give him anything, the retired Basque owes nothing to anyone. Your pension is a result of your contribution. Good. We are also concerned about sustainability, but tell me... Because here we can make the deduction of what have been the periods of surplus or those of deficit! We can do... if we want to do accounts, we start the '80s, that the transfer had to have taken place. We start then, don't we, and we see exactly...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u13	Mesedity, isiltasuna! Just talk to the MP in the rostrum, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u14	...we see exactly what the numbers give. What I'm telling you is that they comply and transfer. And by the way, if you can answer me to see where social security is sustainable, in which part of the state, I would appreciate it, because the accumulated deficit from 2010 to 2014 is 36,000, the hedge or reserve fund has already been taken away from it. And you tell me, after... The accumulated decrease in social security members from 2008 to 2013 results in Spain being 15.2; in Euskadi five points less, 10.4 (accumulated decrease). If the loss of contributors is more pronounced in Spain than here (five points), if the employment rate in Euskadi is higher than the Spanish rate in eight points, if the unemployment rate in Euskadi is significantly lower, in ten points, why is the Spanish Social Security rule of three viable and the Basque one is not going to be viable? Can you explain? Although pensions here are higher, of course, because they contribute more. We know what's in the background. There is a political argument that Zapatero already explained in his day, when he said "There will be no transfer here." And Rajoy also said that the Spanish Constitution spoke of a single box. So, he was told, "Where? Where?" and apparently, therefore, he did not know. Like the nationality thing, I didn't know where the one box thing was. [[Barres]] So, here there is a fear, a fear on the part of the institutions of the State, and, ultimately, what is wanted is that the Basque administrations have that bond, that relationship with the people. Because it's the last link. It's the last link. Sepper, yes, it's the last link! From the moment a person gets up until he goes to bed, from the moment he's born to the moment he dies. If that is statutorily collected in addition, and without materializing by political decision, if that relationship is with the Basque institutions, we know exactly what reading it has. Status would scream. Well, this does have more tickets, but it's true... Status berriareren eztabaidan agerraldiak bukatu dira éta txostenak iritsi dira. Ez, txostenak denak ez will say irritsi. Nike uste dut aipagarria de la ere zuek zuzenean eskatu..., hain ziur zeundeten zuen posizioez, esaten duzuela: "We want a report on the economic cost of independence, we want a report on the position of Euskadi in the EU in the event of independence, report on the development of the Statute and pending transfers, level of competence of the Basque Country, such..., feasibility of a social security system, report on the Economic Concert", etc., etc. You ask for the reports, and what does the Spanish Government answer? What's the answer? Exceeding the competence of the Autonomous Community. Therefore, the request is denied. I mean, we don't even have the right to contrast. I would say more: we have no right to think. We have no right to think. We are denied the possibility of thinking. Let us contrast the data, make the reports, officers, by the corresponding ministry. And that's where we explain the other subject. Query theme. I agree with something you said, and I don't know how you make your crop later, Mr. Ray. You say that amongst the political parties of the legislature there is a democratic agreement. At least that's what he said on a thing you introduced him to on April 21. But then you're saying here that we have to put an independent process into action, and that we're going to have a consultation and a promotion... She is not, but I ought to congratulate you, Oskar Matute, why she used that term, which I know at least from the time when I know it. But how do you reconcile political agreement if you don't have a law of consultation? Mustn't the heart of that political agreement be consulted? We need to define a project, and that's what the self-organization is for. Why, on the one hand and on the other, they were afterwards mentioned, Madam Quiroga said: "Déjenese de romanticisms, la foridad o la nación foral." We're talking about anchors. The additional provision of the E Autonomous Statute says that the acceptance of this Statute does not mean that the Basque people renounce their rights under their history. And the addition to the Spanish Constitution says that it protects and respects the rights of the outside territories, which is as much as it is to say..., to protect and respect is to recognize rights prior to the Constitution itself. And it's not a romantic matter. Look, not only if you want to relate Sabino Arana to the forality in Bizkaia, but here you have Mateo Moraza in Álava, look at Arturo Champion in Navarre, and, if you want to also root foral in the territories of Iparralde, read the alternative Garat, of Napoleon's times. That we are talking about the historical rights of the Basque territories. Then the formation of the nation or the principle of nationality will be another matter.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u15	Go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u16	Thirty seconds. One thing I'd like to say is that he sewed it with Katalunia on the concept of query. We have here defended the right of determining Catalonia, in this Chamber, in several institutions, and even in the Catalonia. And then, how this comes into being, and how each of them is effective, it is another thing. I'd only point out one thing to you. One has happened in Catalonia, and the process is going on at the same rate as the patriotic parties have done for many long decades, although they have used each other in politics, one against another, a political and Democraticist way. And two, human mobilizations have always been included with institutions. Marts do not end in a field, but in institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u17	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. You got a second shift. The speech of the legal teams is over, Mr. President, who is the representative of the Eukong, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u18	Good afternoon, everyone. I've followed the speech of the representatives of all the teams with great interest. It is evident that the legislature is the place of political debate, and that we have a special political moment. This afternoon we have seen the reflection of the multiplicity of our people after different spokes of. And even to hear what they had heard while they spoke, it is to me once more that respect, respect, and indispensable tolerance should appear to me. And based on these values, I shall offer my view on the three working gates of the government which I set up in the morning. Then I'll go deep in what each one of the spokesmen said in the main lines. Our priority is to renew the economy by three methods of work used in the morning, and to promote the employment; but we have also a great deal of work to strengthen peace and co-operation, and, on the other hand, we must proceed along the road to conclude the foundations of a new political state. In the sphere of management we have heard different views and planning. That's what it looks like, or so I think, that in the financial situation we agree, we maintain public services and guarantee social policy. With this, as has been said in all discourses, we must encourage new employment opportunities, and encourage a proper employment. I begin with the coincidences of my summaries, of the speeches that took place at the first session of this afternoon. There is a request to the Government for further action, although I believe that with different views. There is respect for the commitment to the maintenance of essential public services and social policies. Employment is the great social demand and also Parliament's, although the points of view are diverging. I have heard, among the various qualifications, the qualification of "self-congratulation". No way. I said that we will not talk about getting out of the crisis until we get back the jobs lost in time of the crisis. On the second axis, the search for peace is another of the major elements of the political debate, and there is a coincidence in the clear demand to ETA for definitive disarmament, which I support and try to promote with a proposal for an orderly end not of ETA, but of violence and terrorism. The Government's attitude in this area will continue to be to work towards lasting peace and social commitment to coexistence. That is why the Government's attitude towards the victims of terrorism has been criticized, and in my view it is done by twisting the arguments and by reading the Government's position that is at all in line with the spirit of our action. But I'll figure it out too. On the third axis, I reiterate that the self-government presentation and the political parties are demonstrating that there is still no common position of consensus for the political future of Euskadi, and this lack of common project has been reflected in the interventions this afternoon. I have heard positions anchored in legality but which avoid the recognition of non-compliance with that very legality; also proposals for unilaterality to advance the Basque political project. And I reiterate my position and the opportunity we have to agree in Parliament on the basis for a new political pact for the future. So far, three major summaries of the three main axes of this government's action in this legislature. Without going into detail of what each speaker has said, but if I stop at some of the main things that come to me from his speeches, I have pointed out, however, I believe that most of the issues that the various spokespersons have said. Thus, Mr. Maneiro began to make an analysis of the results 2012-2015, saying that he was going to make a serious and rigorous assessment, and he described the government as an inert, insensitive, incapable, inactive government. He has deepened his reflection on job insecurity, poverty; he has criticized that we have not implemented any reformative measures... It has also entered the chapter of the victims, with a permanent accusation of what I think I barely speak of, which is the Basque conflict, like that we foster the Basque conflict, the thesis of the Basque conflict. He also referred to the pact with the Socialist Party, and wondered why. He has also raised the debt of the Administration, and he has accused the Basque Government of blaming the rest of us, permanently blaming the rest of us. In the axis of peace and coexistence, in relation to the contribution to the end of violence, it has also marked, with a concept in my way of seeing – I am not going to prosecute it –... , of "summer camp", the relationship between victims and prisoners. You have also expressed your disagreement with the meeting with the mayors, and the criticism that you have left out of that meeting to the People's Party, when you know well, Mr. Maneiro, as all the spokespersons, coordinators, secretaries-general or presidents of the political parties represented in this House and outside this House, that I have addressed a letter to each of you making you see that it was a meeting with the mayors, with the mayors from which mortal victims have taken place, and it turns out that there are no mayors of the People's Party in municipalities where there have been victims. And that does not prevent, Mr. Maneiro (does not prevent, Mr. Maneiro), so that we can count on the People's Party, and so that every mayor of a municipality where the death victims have succeeded and there is representation of the People's Party, in the interests of that consensus, also obviously works with the People's Party. He encouraged us to break relationships... I understand breaking relationships with the parliamentary group EH Bildu. I also encourage you to break them when you agree with the vote, because you do not agree with the proposals signed with EH Bildu to punish the Basque Government. In any case, you've moved on to the chapter of self-government, and you've also come in with another concept, which is "we've been battling for twenty-three years," you said. Well, and that we claim rights that do not exist, that I am the ordinary representative of the state and that, however, I am crouched, with an attitude of political carnage to continue living from the story... It has also come within the scope of compliance with the Statute in its nationalist version; it has referred to social security, and to the political cowardice of this Government and this lehendakari for not having submitted a concrete proposal on the new status. And it has ended by saying, well, the term "ridiculum" of "foral nation", to also say that the right to decide is a fallacy and is a hoax. These are the things you said, Mr. Maneiro. Mr Maneiro, I do not at all share your catastrophic view of the current Basque situation. It gives me the impression, every time I intervene in the gallery and I have to answer to you, that I see you face to face and I see you writing, but it gives me the impression that you don't write what I say. It gives me the impression that you write what you already have written, to repeat how many times it is necessary in this rostrum. Because you in this rostrum..., and I'm not saying that the others don't repeat each other, but you in this rostrum in every intervention repeat the same question at least four times. And it gives me the impression that you write the same thing that you already have written, so that in your speech you insist up to four or five times on the same question that you have already said in this very rostrum in your speech. In any case, you ask me for data, and I will give you objective data. As of December 2012, there were 169,083 people unemployed in Euskadi, as of December 2012. As of August 2015, there are 155,700 people without a job. You've been looking for headlines, accusing the government of inactivity, incapacity, insensitivity. Do you want headlines? For I will give you headlines, headlines that are noticeable: Euskadi is leader in education, Euskadi is leader in disposable income per person, Euskadi is leader in health care, Euskadi is leader in social protection. And all this in view of what is his catastrophic view of the current Basque situation. And I don't say it, they say it's objective reports. Euskadi has the lowest unemployment rate. And, I'm sorry, but I can't accept your call of insensitive to the victims either. That's an old speech, Mr. Maneiro. That is old and rancid, which does not correspond to reality. As much as I repeat it, it's not going to turn into truth. You have said that this lehendakari is indispensible. Well, who's indispensible or who doesn't decide it either you or I. It is decided by the Basques and Basques with their vote, putting each of us on our site and deciding who is relevant or not. And I believe that so far there is a substantial difference in the support received by the Basque Nationalist Party and all its candidates, and the support sought by UPyD. Mrs Quiroga, you have begun your intervention for a three-year balance sheet, and you have accused me of not making that three-year balance sheet. We are in the general policy debate in 2015, and it will be time for us to take stock of the legislative process. You started by saying that I said in 2012 that it was Euskadi's restart, and you referred again to the unemployment data, the data on gross domestic product... He has also referred to the competences of the Basque Government, to the competences covered by the Statute, and in any case also to the demand for more competences covered by the Statute, I have understood – and if I have misunderstood it and apologized to myself – but I have understood that there is an accusation to the Basque Government that it did not want to develop the competences, we do not want to develop the competences covered by the Statute. It has referred to legislative activity, and has referred simply to the five adopted laws, of which the Basque Government has passed and presented to the Basque Parliament, as a scarce legislative output. Well, then I will refer to this issue too, but I also have to tell you that it is okay to refer to the approved ones, even if it does not refer to the ones presented and pending approval, but I will even tell you that among the approved ones, among the five approved ones, in that scarce bag of legislative production that you have denounced, there are three that you have resorted to. Budget execution, hand brake on expenditure. That what is the Basque Government's forecast in terms of collection, and if in the face of the puncture of collection we made bad forecasts, or we did not make investments to square expenditure, or we are not making investments to square expenditure. Man, the estimates for this year's budget 2015 were approved at last year's Basque Finance Council, and were approved unanimously, as they have always been approved. And in the Basque Finance Council there was a representative of the People's Party, the deputy general of Araba at the time, in that outlaw municipal legislature. Therefore, I do not know whether the agreements adopted unanimously, i.e. for all (or for all in that case) those present at the meeting of the Basque Finance Council, as forecast..., I do not know who was right and who was wrong, but in any case we are aware of what the collection data are until August. Nor have we closed the folder there, because we hope that this collection data will be better by the end of this year. You have made mention of the debt ceiling, and you have made an appeal on several occasions to the lowering of taxes. He has asked himself about social dialogue and when an agreement; and he has made an incursion into the field of Ertzaintza (union that blocks, but we cannot stand still); and he has also made an accusation that we have not listened to Adegi's approach, and that this is a government responsibility. In relation to Lanbide he has also made a mention to five years looking inside, without obviously referring to that, of those five years, at least the first two of you were governing partners of the Basque Socialist Party, parliamentary partners of a government with an absolute majority of the Socialist Party with the People's Party. It has also referred to data on young people, the challenges of modernising Euskadi, moving from confrontation to collaboration, the loss of European funds in basic vocational training, the Basque Country... And you have described, the search for consensus in the Basque country, "consensus among nationalists". There are no plural Basque councils here, there are no Basque councils here that also agree on shared strategies, since the members of these councils can be nationalists as they can be non-nationalists in the Basque country? In peace and coexistence you have proposed that no efforts be made equally, and you have wondered about the orderly end of ETA. No, no, I have told you, it is not the orderly end of ETA: it is the orderly end of violence, of terrorism, what we are proposing, which is different. And he has proposed a new paper as the basis for delegitimizing terrorism. In the new status chapter, prolong the agenda of demands to prolong our political life. That's what he accused us of. That is, that we live politically only on the basis of what our political claim is? Yeah? Is this how most Basque and Basque citizens reward us? Just for that matter? In every territory? Even in the territories ruled by the People's Party? Foral nation, and you, with a stage, as you accuse me also of the impostures or positions I have here in the rostrum... "Foral nation" you have described it as rancio, old man (then I will also enter into that question), and you have demanded the abandonment of the complaint of recentralization and you have accused us of inaction and parsimony. Well, as I'll come in later on on each of the issues... Mrs Quiroga, you ask me whether we have moved forward at the pace I thought, and I repeat that we said that the years 2013 and 2014 were going to be tough, and that economic recovery would start in 2015, and so it is. You ask me whether I am satisfied with the economic and social measures we have taken, and I have to say yes. I am satisfied with the social policies we have put in place that have allowed us to contain and maintain levels of cohesion and social balance far above our environment. I will only give you one piece of information, which I have already said here on several occasions: 40% of all the money spent in the State on social security income is given here in the Basque Autonomous Community, Euskadi. You tell me we're worse than in 2012. I don't suppose you're serious! In 2012 (you said this, yes, you said this) the gross domestic product fell by 1.6%; in 2015 we expect a growth of 2.5%. In 2012... Yes, Mrs Llanos, you have said so; correct in your second speech if you wish, I answer to what you have said. In 2012, the industrial output index fell by almost 6%, and in 2015 we expect growth above 3.5%. In 2012 there were 169,000 people registered in Lanbide as plaintiffs; today there are 14,000 fewer people. It has referred to the budget implementation data, and also to the provisional data until the summer, as I said. And as of today, in relation to the committed expenditure, which you have denounced, I could give you data from each of the departments, but I will give you the general data: today the committed expenditure on investment is 71%. To date, 71%. In 2014 the expenditure committed was 97.2% throughout the year, and as of today, September 24, we are at 71%. I have already referred to the recorded unemployment data before. You have also mentioned social dialogue, and you have accused me of a lack of leadership in social dialogue. Look, I think that on some occasion I have also referred to the issues that have to do with social dialogue, and in particular that few months after I was lehendakari, exactly in July 2013, after several bilateral meetings that had been held, I convened a meeting with the national representation of employers' organizations and also with trade unions, to address the issue of ultraactivity. You know what the result was, not that of that meeting, but that of a meeting forty-eight hours later, at which the territorial employers' organizations – not the national one, but the territorial ones – did not support what had been a pre-agreement in relation to what was that subject in question. And I led that process in July 2013. But from that process, and despite what seems to be, this Government has continued in talks and bilateral meetings to promote social dialogue, or perhaps it would be better to say tripartite dialogue: institutions, government, administrations, and trade unions, social actors. And in particular, in addition to the accusations that have been made unfairly by the Ertzaintza unions, and there we have also said in how many meetings there has been no representation of unions (in at least thirteen meetings, at table 103 of the Ertzaintza)... Or in Osakidetza we could say, for example, that in nine months there have been four meetings, four sectoral meetings. That in Employment, for example, and in relation to the tripartite dialogue table, or social dialogue table, two meetings have been held, one in July and the other in September, and another is planned for October. And we do certain things with discretion, Mrs Quiroga, to seek the opportune effect of possible agreement, which is what we are working on. Mrs. Mendia, you have started by making a reminder that there is one year left, and with an appeal, a place that I do not miss another year: that I lost the first, that the other two more or less, but that I do not miss another year, the one that we have left. They are not going to support measures that involve cuts, and they propose as socialists alternatives to cuts. And he insists not to deal if it's in exchange for cuts. That solid foundations have to be laid... You said to make use of it, to take it out of the shed, and not lose the last year, with short plans, not looking to the future, we don't look at the middle term or the length of time, and I'll come in later on. Then we'd do our planning on auto-organizing. Then you entered the profession's data, the poverty connected with work, and when you say socialists, you even mentioned them in the language of social conversation. And you've mentioned the plans for re-establishing workers, and you've proclaimed a follow-up education, and the planning to be made in front of it. You have modified the basis of human cohesion as well as forum-chosen. You have accused RGI that there are 830,000 monoparental houses, and that poverty has a face and for the most part a woman's face, as well as poverty. You have criticized that we have given up, that I have given up negotiating the replacement rate. I think you should know: it's not true. In all the meetings I had with the President of the Spanish Government, Rajoy, in addition to other issues, one of the main issues was the replacement rate, which at one time was 5% and increased to 10%, when I claimed to increase to 50%. And if it was increased to 10% it will not be because I would not claim the increase in the replacement rate either. He referred to the ESC, and on the ESC we could also talk in another area, about the ESC's reports, which have also motivated the Basque Government's meetings with the Economic and Social Council itself, to know how the ESC's reports are prepared and how the ESC's reports are passed on to the public. If they are with consensus, if they are full agreement of the ESC, or are sectoral reports that the ESC gives as valid. He has accused us of a lack of look at the future, and permanently refers to the path left by the Basque Socialist Party. Well, yes, there will be a path left by the Basque Socialist Party, but I will not go into what path the Basque Socialist Party has left. In any case, Mrs Mendia, the path left by the Basque Socialist Party did not count on sufficient support from the Basques and Basques so that the Basque Socialist Party, as it was with the absence of the representation of the Abertzale left in the last legislature, would govern with the support of the People's Party. You have also entered into what is memory and coexistence, with a reference to non-photos and a memory and coexistence on solid foundations, on firm principles, in a claim also of discretion, and that you agree with what we say, but in nothing with what we do. Well, this is something we have been able to see from the very beginning. Unfortunately, since, not in relation to the Basque Government's Peace and Co-existence Plan, but even in relation to the Peace and Co-existence Paper itself, the Basque Socialist Party has been absent from the Peace and Co-existence Paper. Even though the Ponencia de Paz y Convivencia, with the commitment of the representation of EH Bildu, would like to start with the same ethical soil that was approved in the last legislature. Well, he's raised the consensual tax review, a new tax review, with the reforms going in... Updating the Statute from legality, reforming the Statute to strengthen rights... And it has ended by saying that there is indeed a lot of work to do; that Parliament has imposed its agenda on a paralyzed government, and that we do not respond to the challenges facing this country. Well, look, Mrs. Mendia, then I'll try to degrate everything too in your own way, but I'm staying with you to say that Euskadi is richer but the poorest Basques. And I recognize the grave situation in which thousands of Basque and Basque citizens live after seven years of crisis (yes, I also said that in my speech this morning), seven years of crisis, in four of which you were in the government almost, by the way. And I also said in this morning's speech that we will not be able to end the crisis until we get all the lost jobs back. We agree, but we must also count the other side of the coin. And counting the other side of the coin would also mean being able to say that the average expenditure per person in 2014 was 13,313 euros, 2,553 more than the state average. And by listening to your speech, Mrs. Mendia, you can sometimes give the feeling that the world begins and ends with the Basque Socialist Party. I recognize your contribution, and you know I thank you, I thank you, and I do so as many times as I have the opportunity to say it publicly. Even in this same forum, in the rostrum, today I have also referred to the framework agreement on economic recovery and job creation. "It does not present a novel plan for employment," he tells us. You talk about Renovation plans, local employment plans, training plans for unemployed people... And, Mrs. Mendia, they're all plans that are in motion. And here we have the breakdown of what is the Framework Programme for Employment and Economic Reactivation 2014-2016, in 2014 and 2015, what we have planned and what we are implementing, and the impact forecasts that we had for the year 2014 and that we have for this year 2015 and that are being fulfilled. He talks about providing us with a social cohesion fund, and I can tell you that this fund is committed to the Basque Finance Council with 10 million for 2016 and 20 million for 2017. And of course all these measures can be improved, I agree. He has ended up saying that he wants a stronger and safer statute. Well, let's get to work. Let's work, wake up and make a deal. Mr. Ariz, in the name of EH Collect, that you changed the view, because the direction of life makes us often change it. And you have put a question on this, which of your daughters, or whom we would like to leave to the Basque People, or whom we would like to leave to our children. And then, I believe, there has been a long majority of your participation in the Spanish Government. And we'll solve the conflict. And when you went to the youth, you said the case was unreturnable, and you mention the guarantees. And when thou mentionst the pledges, ye offer yourselves as pledges and as pledges. You accused the parliament is after society. And then you made a reference to Catalonia and you asked, "What about here? "I don't know. And here I speak of the same thing M. Egibar has said to you: We have a group of self-generacys, and if you have said that you have all your will to contribute to that group of self-organizations, you have a group of self-reproachers to suggest the proposals you have made these days. The agreement proposal, and you've established the proposal for this agreement in historical rights, and today's historical rights, the day of historical rights, the day of historical rights. Look at historical rights in the EH Collect! I do not know whether the creation which exists in the EH Collect is composed of other political forces, and because they have their history, or because the alterations of generation have forced EH to be founded on historical rights in this new political proposition. The legal proposition, the young man, was ley de tempolemite de la Ciudad. Mr. Egibar has told you about the collection, along with Mr. Matute's allusion to it. Ley de temporemito de la Ciudadía. How many disputes have we had in this legislature when the Socialists spoke to us of the citizen and we talked about the Basque people? Andley de temporanto de la Ciudad Maria now on the EH Collector. What difference does it make between the arranged and legal examination of the ley de tempoeramite and we plan? You later mentioned those who are in a bad condition and ought to be in possession of ourselves, in order to give an answer to all this, which you have once again entered into an accusation against the Spanish Government. And in reference to the Spanish Government, you said that Euskal Autonomy and Euskonya Ercola had failed in their relationships to the Spanish Government, and you've shown generosity, as always, by the EH Collection that would have to see your hand stretched out so that it could take a few more steps. I'm just wondering if you're using this situation as an excuse to put politics on a neoliberal basis. Root yellow, jaiotze-tasagatik egin dudan aipamena in a didazula ikusi duet, goizean jaiotze-tasez aipamena egin baitut. And I see that this House is also putting itself to the head in seeking a solution to this problem. I am convinced, Mr. Arraiz, that your daughters will live in a peaceful setting. I'm convinced. Zorionak, Root yellow; zorionak, Semper yellow, ez dakit besterik inor zoriondu beharko dudan... [[Barres]] You said, Mr Arraiz, that we are on the closest stage in our entire history to achieve peace, and I agree, I agree. I agree, and I tell you that starting the path is easy, starting the path is easy, although it is also said that starting the path is the most difficult thing. Well, starting the way is easy, and the decision is not in the hands of others, but of ETA. In the same way that ETA unilaterally declared the definitive cessation of the armed struggle, of violent action, now, this afternoon or tomorrow, or on Sunday 27, ETA has in its hands and voice the possibility of unilaterally announcing disarmament and dissolution. And that is the quickest way to end the cycle of violence and that our sons and daughters, and grandchildren of some or some of those who are here too, of many of those here, live in a scenario of peace. I shall present it in three different areas, exactly as I answer what I have heard. I'll start with economics and public policies. This morning I used words of trust and hope. It's true, it can't be denied that we're better than three years ago. I've given economic growth and employment data. We're better, but I'm also willing to accept the deficiencys and the problems we have with it, and I've said so in the morning. We've been in deep and deep crisis, we've been through deep consequences and we're still suffering, but let's admit that we've managed to go back to the economic situation. It wasn't this, and I said it in the morning, the government's contribution. I've clearly remarked that we've been successful through my morning performance. However, I will confirm the most important idea. The object of the government is the person, the person to guarantee the service to people and offer new options, which is the priority of our program. Critics to which I have referred earlier, in relation to self-congratulation. Look, I'm not euphoric with anything, and less with the evolution of the economy. [[Barres]] Nothing. Evolution is positive, but there are many uncertainties. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u19	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u20	I'm glad they take it that way. The positive aspects of the current situation cannot be denied. We're better than a year and a half ago and better than two, but we have a long way to go to get back the lost job. I have said it, and I will insist on it. I have acknowledged our concern about the instability and uncertainty perceived as a result of the Chinese crisis, even with the messages of slowing down in the emerging countries, and let us say nothing about the waves of the European zone. However, I wanted to stress that our concern lies in the difficulties of people and families who are unemployed or insecure. The crisis has left severe consequences in Euskadi, and I recognize it. And we face the situation with realism and responsibility. Therefore, no self-congratulation, for anyone who thinks that is the attitude and disposition of the Basque Government. I have heard comparisons about the evolution of employment that surprise me. Well, Mrs Quiroga also said that she would not want to go into comparisons, because we could immediately counter other data. In any case, it is said that Spain is reducing unemployment more than Euskadi, and it is true, as much as that Euskadi reduces it more than Germany. But, despite this, the situation of unemployment in Spain is much worse than in Euskadi, and that of Euskadi is worse than that of Germany. The unemployment rate in Euskadi is 15%, and in Spain it is 22%. The important thing is that the evolution of employment in Euskadi, Mrs Quiroga, is consistent with the evolution of the gross domestic product. This is relevant: in the second quarter, Euskadi's gross domestic product grew by 2.7%, and employment by 1.7%. And this means that part of growth translates into more productivity. We have seen the crisis and unemployment very closely, and I am just saying that we are turning the situation around. It is no consolation, but the reality is that in January, referring to Lanbide also, as has been done, there were 172,000 people registered in Lanbide in January, and in August there are 155,000 people registered in Lanbide. And I'm going to give another data: in January (there has also been a reference to social security membership), in January there were 877,000 people affiliated with social security, and in August there are 885,000. Jobs are growing, membership is growing. It's not enough, but it's good news. I believe that the path is positive, that we must continue to drive the programme of economic revival and employment agreed with the Socialist Party of Euskadi. The aim is certainly to create employment and improve the quality of employment. We share that the job that is being created is not of sufficient quality, we share it, and I have publicly denounced it also in sectoral forums. I have acknowledged this, but let us all recognize that job creation and its quality are also the responsibility of companies. It is also a consequence of the labour reform approved by the Spanish Government. Now (yes, Mrs Quiroga) you will understand that to create quality jobs you must start by creating jobs. And today Euskadi creates a job. I recognize that employment remains, therefore, the outstanding subject in our economy, and should be the priority objective of social dialogue, which has also been called upon so much in some interventions. All of us would like to see the conditions for starting the dialogue between employers and workers in a definitive way. The Government has encouraged it, I said, and I have personally intended to do so, and I hope that after the stabilization of the organizations it will be able to resume. The Government maintains an intense bilateral relationship, as I have shown, which aims to help find social consensus. Employment, therefore, is a priority, and for this we are improving Lanbide's capacity. Look, we're reviewing one hundred percent of job demands, and the future goes by working skills and not so much resumes. We are increasing the number of companies using Lanbide to complete their workforce – also in relation to employment, employment mediation and Lanbide. In 2013 we had 3,990 companies offering jobs, and now more than 5,000 are registered in Lanbide. The challenge is to meet the demands of companies, and specific training and employment programmes are also being implemented. And we have examples: Petronor, Reunited Tubes, Mercedes, Gestamp or La Naval, among others we could put in. We have eight programmes aimed at promoting youth employment. We invest 20 million in local and regional employment plans aimed mainly at the long-term unemployed. Some reference has also been made to young people and to data that we have also known these days, presented by the Youth Council of Spain. Well, the challenge is that young people coming out have a chance to get back. Those who come out, have a chance to come back. It's not so much holding them back, but those outside have a chance to get back. We need your knowledge and we need your experience. And it is true that young Basques seek opportunities outside of Euskadi, it is true that we have excessive youth unemployment, but catastrophic claims cannot be made, as they were made in the provision of certain data without looking at the reasons behind each data. An example. In these three years, the Basque Government itself has given 1,450 scholarships to young people to gain experience abroad; we have supported 1,838 projects for the internalisation of Basque companies; in the past 3,000 young people from our universities or vocational training centres have gone abroad to continue studying. Part of the future of our young people is knowing how to be, train and work in a new global world. We're encouraging him. The challenge we have is, I insist, that those young people who have come out for one reason or another can come back. And I recognize that we have an area of improvement: to make available to our companies that knowledge of those who have gone out to train and work abroad, to show that talent to return it to the country. And that is the effort we have to make, with realism and tenacity. I shall repeat it clearly and distinctly: Euskati has a economic strategy, an industrial policy that looks into the future from Euskakia. I have mentioned many instances in the morning: the program to provide funding to companies, associations, and the Foundation contract, the Basque Industry 4.0 initiative, the agreement we have with the trade vaults, the Global Competition program, the new policy with the Clusters... This is our economic policy, it's written and we're filling it up. It's starting to provide results. Euskadi, therefore, despite criticism, has an economic strategy. Our economic strategy is based on four legs: the "i" of industry, the "i" of internalisation, the "i" of innovation, the "i" of investment. And of course we have industrial policy, and I refer to the facts. I refer to the following facts: agreement with financial institutions to ensure financing for companies; agreements to give capacity to mutual guarantee companies Elkargi and Oinarri; programmes to improve Basque companies, Industry 4.0 and Digital Industry; consortium of internalisation with delegations and chambers of commerce; new Global Lehian programme with more than a thousand companies; new Interlehian programme and cluster policy; assistance to Basque companies for tenders in the framework of multilateral bodies; inter-institutional plan to support entrepreneurial activity, with outlaws; Innobideak strategy for new management models; extension of broadband to industrial polygons. This is economic policy! For an inactive government, I don't think it's bad at all. Euskadi decided to do industrial policy in the 1980s, and we saved our economy and our industry. Today we are doing industrial policy, and we are going to guarantee the future of our economy. Because industry is the future. In Euskadi we have a 23.6% industrial economy, and much of our gross domestic product is advanced services to support our industry, be it engineering, consulting, technology companies... Tourism and trade, on the other hand, account for 18% of GDP, and we still have almost 122% of the European Union's GDP. 122% of the European Union's GDP. We have unemployment rates below our environment, we have more stable and quality jobs. And of course we are not satisfied (we are not satisfied), but the starting situation is better than in other areas. Innovation has also been called upon, as has been the case in previous debates in this House. Innovation is a fundamental axis of government action, and it is a country policy. And this morning I said it, I was the first to acknowledge that we have to move forward, and I did so in the Basque Science, Technology and Innovation Council. Anyway, I think we have made a great effort to keep our R & D & I spending in the European media environment. We remain in the 2 % environment in the context of a long and deep crisis, which has led us to prioritise social public policies. Euskadi invests 1.24%, our benchmark is Europe, and, together with what innovation is as a fundamental axis, and not only that it is concrete in the budget contribution, we are redesigning the system to improve the results of R & D+i policies. We need to improve efficiency and advance public-private consultation. I recognize the effort of the private initiative, and so I have also mentioned before the public-private partnership, the private initiative committed to the Science, Technology and Innovation Plan, which envisages 6.6 billion private investment up to 2020. A point to the People's Party and its reference to lowering taxes. Look, the best tax recipe, Mrs Quiroga, is not to make fifty tax reforms in three years to raise taxes and then lower them to six months after the election. And this is what the People's Party has done. In Euskadi we also agree with you and with the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party on a fiscal reform that came into force on 1 January 2014, and what is our responsibility is to ensure certainty. And I sincerely believe that it would be counterproductive to carry out a new change in our taxation, when the reform implemented has not yet been assessed. And we also have, in the area of taxation and also in this section, a joint plan with the outside parliaments to tackle tax fraud. You ask for concrete information, and I say to you – you also know the answers of the Finance and Finance Commissioner in the rostrum, in plenary – that progress has been made more than ever with institutional agreement, clear measures, transparent and effective measures; that the joint plan to combat tax fraud has been approved; and that agreements have been signed for the reciprocal exchange of information. One more section. Social policies are the priority of our government. I've mentioned that in Spain we're 5% of the population, and in Spain I mean making fun of the warguts of the people who are investing in society, not spending it here is 40% of the time here. We have Solarized societies and institutions, and we've had three decades of solidarity. We know that there is much need, we know the difficulty of the situation, but we must admit this reality also to all of us. I repeat, this is not only a function of the Government, but it is a function of all the institutions. With regard to social policies, the Basque Government has not reduced its efforts in social policies, it has increased it. And I'm going to give you data. In 2000, Euskadi allocated 70 million (in 2000, fifteen years ago); in 2010 it was 385 million (in 2010, five years ago), and this year it will be almost 500 million. In 2010, 17 million were earmarked for conciliation, and this year will be 30 million. We have laid the foundations for the development of a balanced social service portfolio, the Housing Act will be developed, and income, reconciliation and family guarantee policies have also been maintained in their main benefits, not reaching what we would obviously want ourselves to achieve. It is not only a matter of economic commitment: we are also improving the management of income security income, and I think it is important to stress that the processing time is 46 days, when two years ago it was 102 days. We continue to fight against fraud: an average of 1,300 persons per month are suspended for breach of their duties, each and every one of the complaints received in Lanbide's services are investigated, and – I will be strong once again – we will not tolerate the slightest abuse of the system, nor, of course, fraud. As far as the Housing Act is concerned, I have been clear, and today we are defending before the Bilateral Commission on Cooperation with the State the Housing Act adopted in this Parliament. Continuing with the essential services, and also by reference to Osakidetza, I want to highlight the quality level of the Basque Health Service. It is a benchmark in Europe's public policies, and Osakidetza continues to improve. And it's not just about photographs, Mrs. Mendia. The current OPE is 1,014 jobs. And of course we would like OPE of 3,000 jobs, as has been claimed here in plenary, but it has to do with what you have denounced: the replacement rate approved by the Spanish Government, for which I claimed 50%. The University Hospital of Álava is in progress, the works of the hospital of Santiago have begun, in Txagorritxu in the coming months we will bid the works of the new building. We have never supported the pharmaceutical copayo, and we are, curiously, the only community that has put in place compensation measures (and here there are parties that have responsibility for the governments of autonomous communities in the Spanish state). We have regained support for Onkologikoa from Gipuzkoa, despite what has also been said, signing a concert and giving economic stability. And we will end with the deployment of comprehensive health organizations. Osakidetza has tried, on the other hand... Mention has also been made of the treatment of hepatitis C, and I am interested to note that Osakidetza has already treated more than 700 people with new hepatitis C antivirals, costing more than EUR 20 million. And it is expected that by the end of the year he has treated more than 1,000 people. And finally, since July, the situation on the waiting list for more frequent and relevant procedures can be consulted on the internet. Education, there has also been an appeal to education, and I say that education in Euskadi must remain a policy based on stability and consensus. I share that we have to materialize it in a Basque education law – as I said this morning, and that is what is foreseen in our government plan – but we have to start with a premise, which is to preserve the spirit of consensus for that future Basque education law, and it is an objective of the government program and of Heziberri 2020 itself. A reference to research has also been made in the section on education. I must insist that, in relation to research, what is relevant is the agreement reached in the Science, Technology and Innovation Plan itself, and I would also highlight the University Plan as a response to that demand. In education and eucatitude, the division and agreement are indispensable. I've already mentioned the criticisms we've received from the Popular Party. In the last three decades six laws have been admitted to education, but in this period euscal education has shown the ability to produce better results. It is impossible to impose a law without being able to participate in the community of education. The Euskara, on the other hand, has moved on in the past three decades, which is precisely 14,5 points, and must continue. We say it's guaranteed to the future, but that doesn't mean the job's finished, not even less. We know that we have not finished our journey, but step by step, we advance action by action, and we intend to continue to penetrate further into this road as we have said. And our intention is that the cost of economic costs is not to be disturbed even in mature hope of being able to learn to support it. We are accused, as I say, of lack of action, of lack of concreteness. I believe that with the answers I have given, that accusation is sufficiently rebutted, but, in any case, this morning in my speech I announced seventy measures for the coming months. We have strategy, we have program, we have ambition for the future of Euskadi, and I have to say that the government is fulfilling, and that everything committed to the government plan is being fulfilled. And we have also complied, despite what is said, with the legislative programme. First, we presented a legislative programme, and second, we said that the government would pass twenty bills in 2015, and we will pass them. Another very different thing is what is being done in this House, in Parliament. Because there have also been parliamentary groups, or spokespersons, that these past days have publicly acknowledged that this is already part of the political parties' strategy to activate or slow down the debate on the bills passed by the Governing Council and brought to this House. Peace and fellowship have been mentioned, and, if not, I shall give an answer in general. I want to emphasise the purpose of our mission in peace and fellowship, and I said in the first morning: society society. How are we gonna do this? We obeyed, therefore, in obedience to what was promised, and we accepted on the plan the 18 missions and the initiatives of the enterprise. We're not political parties in the future. We want the future hero to be an eascal society. That's what we're conducting all our programs and I'm gonna make a couple of places that we're working on this year. Remember the high school, the Social Party and the Eucalist Party, because of a legal team driven together by the Jultistic Party. The second, in the case of the victims, answers to a desire to be shared in the construction of the future. And by the victims they've set up the project and we're completely in agreement with them. The central objective, therefore, of the Peace and Co-existence Plan, and we reflect it from the very beginning, is the social encounter. No one should take the lead in peace, and this Government is, of course, not working in the area of peace for the purpose of arrogating to us anything that corresponds to society as a whole. Neither party, nor much less ETA, should take the lead in peace. We must not do party politics on the subject of peace, I have said that once and a thousand times. Let us put aside the exaggeration of differences, which lead nowhere, and let us focus on those we share, which is a lot. And what I think is a lot is also the statement of the victims of the Eraikiz programme, which is an indicator of the future. The central axis is not to place it in what can be – I insist – capital for political parties, but in the social encounter, not in political leadership. In the face of the equidistance charge, I say we defend memory for all victims. I met with the victims on June 4th and 5th, as I've been doing for years now. To insist that the Basque Government or the Peace and Co-existence Plan establish different categories of treatment for victims is not true. We must all agree, as has also been said in other interventions, to recognize the violence of ETA, the injustice of the violence of ETA, of the police abuses, of the Spanish Basque Battalion or of the LAG. The problem is that we do not all agree to acknowledge the injustice of the murders committed by ETA. And this is a direct appeal to the left abertzale. And I believe that on this issue I have clearly expressed how many times I have had the opportunity to do so in this rostrum too. The abertzale left eludes a clear pronouncement that heals the past; eludes affirming that what ETA did was wrong, that it should never have done so, and this is a pending subject. Violence was a mistake and an injustice, and not recognizing error perpetuates its consequences. With regard to the victims' portraits, I will make one point, Mr Maneiro, once again: to pay tribute to the militancy in violence or terrorism is incompatible with the policy of victims committed to human rights that the Basque Government defends. And any agreement to remember the victims must imply recognition of the injustice of any form of violence or terrorism. We are not going to stand still, because standing still cannot be any project to build peace and coexistence. Society wants institutions and parties to work together. And at this point of working together, I repeat, Mrs Quiroga, instead of announcing more speeches and parliamentary committees (which is fine, we should see the result of what could be a debate on this issue before the presentation is created), I would ask you to get involved and work on those that already exist in this Parliament, which are a suitable forum also for those issues that you, in the pretence of a presentation of freedoms and coexistence, would like to raise. Do you not think that the positions of the groups in this Parliament are already sufficiently expressed? The Ponencia de Paz y Convivencia is constituted on the ethical ground that was approved even by you in the last legislature. However, if you want another speech, I insist, do not offer it to the lehendakari: it is a matter to bring to Parliament, and therefore to offer it to the rest of the parliamentary groups. LTH. I have also been interested in the reference to the internal institutional architecture. And I say to Mrs Mendia that the debate on the reform of the Historical Territories Act and the debate on the new political status of Euskadi are at different levels; that they are also being dealt with in two different presentations by this Parliament. That the two issues are relevant, and I have welcomed them both since the investiture debate even, Mrs Mendia, but they are different. That the institutions work on the same subject does not mean that the expenditure you publicly announced can be saved. For example, the employment policies we demand as a priority, employment policies, Mrs Mendia, and economic promotion. Something will sound to you, because of the responsibility that the Socialist Party of the Euskadi is also responsible for right now in certain governments. Well, employment and economic promotion policies account for 18% of that figure that you said publicly. Are you really proposing that we eliminate these resources? For example, the investment in the Bilbao metro is shared by the Basque Government with the parliament. Do you think it would be better for the House to stop contributing its share? I repeat what I said at the beginning of this legislation, we welcome this discussion, but the relationship between the institutions of Eukadin works well. We're a small country, we're close, all parties have their hands on these institutions. That things can get better in this too? Yes, of course, I won't deny it, but our organization architecture is not a problem today, I should say, a positive choice that separates us. Social security. It has also been raised, in relation to the management of social security and pensions, which can lead to bankruptcy or ruin in Euskadi, and that means that, in my view, and as Mr Egibar, spokesman for the Euzko Abertzaleak group, has also said, Spain is already in bankruptcy or ruin. Look, Spain's pension system has problems with future viability. That's why the Toledo Pact. That is why, Mrs Quiroga, the Toledo Pact, and that is why the proposals for amendments by the Spanish Government and the People's Party, and the ideas for drawing benefits from the system, are being put forward. Euskadi has no more problems of viability than those of Spain. He's got less. And I tell you one thing, Mrs Quiroga: 64 out of every 100 people contribute to Euskadi; only 56 in Spain. And a system is more viable as more people co-operate. I think the difference is clear. I do not deny the problems, but all we ask is that the Statute be complied with. That the Statute, the management of the economic system of social security (Article 18.2) is complied with, as envisaged in the Gernika Statute of Autonomy, and that Euskadi manages pensions. And we'll do it rigorously and we'll guarantee it. How can it be said that if we manage it will be a ruin, when the ruin is in Spain? Or do we doubt the ability of Basques and Basques – and I don't mean the Basque Nationalist Party or the Basque Government – to implement the measures that are necessary to ensure the viability of the system, if it were in our hands? But we are also talking about the management of the economic system of social security: Article 18.2, management. We manage health and it's guaranteed, we manage education and it's guaranteed, we manage social protection and it's guaranteed, and if we manage social security as we should, pensions will be guaranteed. Let the PP, the People's Party, not be so patronistic with Euskadi. We're a self-responsible society. I repeat, do not deny the transfer for a criticism that we are going to mismanage it and that this is going to be a ruin. No, it's going to be the other way around. But don't be patronistic in that sense, with the prediction that we're going to mismanage it. Comply with the Statute. I repeat, moreover, Euskadi has an occupation rate of 64%, and Spain of 56%. And, more importantly, I believe in the trust of the citizenry. The Basque pensioners have no doubt that if their pensions are in the hands of the Basque Government they will be charged, because we have always complied. They're quiet. It's a self-portrait section. At the new political state, I explained the position of the Basque MUDM this morning. And we can't forget that there's a band of jobs working on this parliament, we can't forget that it's his job to agree to a shared diagnosis and then, if he's on that basis and that's how the crew decides, it's a plan to make a specific proposition. And over and over again, we're getting ready to make a suggestion to you. And again and again we say that there is a band of jobs in which each member of the legislature is responsible for its proposal. And if you're gonna hang on the wall, you're supposed to use a path so you won't show yourself on the skin. I have, however, explained our principles clearly and distinctly, and confirmed an idea: our historic rights are seeded and autogony fruit. It is our duty to try to get more fruit out of this seed. Therefore, the political position of the Basque Government on the new political status for Euskadi has already been reflected this morning, and I also reflect it in this debate. And I have conveyed the desire for a political pact for coexistence, and we do not renounce the rights of the Basque people, and we are concerned about the violation and degradation (yes, I insist, degradation) of the Statute, and degradation of the spirit of the 1979 statutory pact. The Statute, however, has great value, and we want to regain the spirit of pact. We want guarantees of compliance, and we want to adapt it to the needs of the country and to the reality of Europe. No one can deny that there has been a degradation of the spirit of the statutory pact, and no one can deny that there has been a degradation of self-government, not even in the transfers already contemplated and managed by the Basque institutions. Let's not say the ones that are pending. No one can deny that there has been invasive legislation through basic laws. No one can deny that there is a case law in this regard also on the basis of the rulings of the Constitutional Court. The debate on the reform of the Spanish Constitution does not guarantee that the wishes of Basque society will be met, and I keep this in mind, but I also say that for Euskadi it would be interesting to modify the Spanish Constitution if it allows the development of the first additional provision, for the recognition of the historical rights of the Basque territories, to which the left now clings abertzale to present the law of empowerment as an initiative of the citizens of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. I would insist that it would be interesting to modify, provided that it allows the development of the first additional provision for the recognition of historical rights. And if not, I sincerely believe that the Spanish Constitution also has mechanisms that can enable further development of self-government and advance in the political construction of Euskadi. Mr Maneiro, are I, waiting for the results of the Catalan elections and the results of the general elections, when I am invoking the pact, invoking the fulfilment of the spirit of the statutory pact, invoking the compliance with the Statute of Gernika, an organic law, invoking the first additional provision of the Spanish Constitution, the historical rights recognized and protected by the Spanish Constitution? Cheating on me? Therefore, progress in the new political status does not strictly require a reform of the Spanish Constitution, and it does require a determined political will and vision. They reproach me, however, that I do not defend my political project, and I am clear, I am clear. I said it this morning. I am a Basque nationalist, a militant of the Basque Nationalist Party, and, just as the additional provision of the Statute of Autonomy speaks of non-renunciation of rights, man, I also say that I am lehendakari, and because I am lehendakari I am aware of what my institutional responsibility is. You do not need to remind me that I am an ordinary representative of the State, to claim that I have to comply with the law. If that's what I'm doing, demand compliance with the law! Now – I also return the ball to you, Mr Maneiro – in the same way as in the additional provision of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy, for being lehendakari I do not renounce the principles of the Basque Nationalist Party. But I am lehendakari, and in this condition I speak to him, as lehendakari. And I also raised it this morning and I put it to the political groups with parliamentary representation. I firmly believe that, in defence of their freedom, the Basque people have not accepted, accepted and cannot accept that their majority will, and currently democratically expressed, can be altered, supplanted or diluted by or in other wills. And much less with the Statute of Gernika. And I remind you again, and I remember everything and every spokesman: the additional provision of the Statute of Gernika states that accepting the autonomous regime does not imply the renunciation of the Basque people of the rights which, as such, could have corresponded to them by virtue of their history. And this, Mr Maneiro, this, Mrs Quiroga, from a conception of historicism, but also of decision-making (of both joints, historicism and decision-making), is a foreign nation. Article 1 of the Statute of Gernika states that the powers of the Basque Autonomous Community do not come from, but are adapted to, the Spanish Constitution. I invite you again to read the first article of Gernika's Statute of Autonomy: they do not come from the Spanish Constitution, but they adapt to it, by determining that it is the Basque people, it is the Basque people and no one but the Basque people, which is constituted as an autonomous community within the Spanish State. And this is also a foreign nation. And we could also talk in this sense about what is free accession. And we could also discuss what the right of self-determination is. And the right of self-determination not for secession, but the right to self-determination also for free accession. For free membership. And this is what the Basque Nationalist Party claims with the first article of the Statute of Autonomy of Gernika, I insist: that the powers of the Basque Autonomous Community do not come from the Spanish Constitution, which is what article 1 of the Statute of Autonomy of Gernika says. Mr Maneiro, with his gestures, once again, what I observe is that it is absolute negationism, but the problem is that his attitude is the denial of what was the will mostly expressed by Basque society in 1979. This is what's serious. We have never given up our freedoms and rights. We did not even do so with the Spanish Constitution, which includes the first additional provision. And I return to the surprise that seems to have caused that concept of a foreign nation. Well, outside nation I sincerely believe that it is a nation built on the basis of our historical rights, I insist, in the combination of historicism and decision-making, which have represented and represent the constitution of the Basque people throughout history. And that's what makes us unique. Which makes us unique. And we could talk about Catalonia and we could talk about Basque singularity in the face of what is Catalonia's history, also in the period of democratic transition. And we could talk about what was the commitment of the Basque and Catalan governments in exile not to return to the Spanish state until there was a consolidated democracy. And we could recall the attitude of the Catalan Government in exile, as opposed to that of the Basque Government. And we respect it, and we respect the decision taken by the Catalan political parties regarding what their historical rights were, or could have been. And we respect it, as we respect the path they have now taken, but we are unique, and we are unique both in the Spanish State and in Europe. Foral nation, therefore, respect for diversity, plurality, from a cooperative, participatory institutional system, based on consortial democracy, to the vanguard of the most advanced democracies. A model that – I said this morning, and I am not tired of repeating – looks to Europe, to Europe, in defence and development of our uniqueness, based on the principle of subsidiarity, also envisaged in the Treaty of Lisbon, in horizontal and multilevel governance, in a structure of composite states and in a complex process of European construction. It's a custom for patriotism on the left to be late. Anyway, welcome. He didn't approve of the state, but now he accepts the contributions conferred by organization. In 1990 the patriotic system had not adopted the right of self-determination in the year 1990s, the patriotic left did not accept the law of consulting, nor the right to decide the new political state. Now he pretends to consent, but the problem is that he does not make the agreement strong, but that he enlarges the differences, and is always in his eyes the Jest Party of the Eus. For the last 35 years we have obtained many different agreements based on multiplicity, and now we have an excellent opportunity, which must be our goal, at least that is my goal. I insist that the proposal put forward by the left abertzale, or by EH Bildu (in any case, proposes a law of consultation), is not a proposal to Basque society, no matter how much you say it, Mr Arraiz. I think it's a tactical movement, I don't know if for internal consumption, as I told you before, or I don't know if a tactical movement that looks at the unique and exclusive objective of the Basque Nationalist Party. Well, I have to tell you, Mr Arraiz, to take your proposal to the Self-Government Office (as I have told you before, not to make shortcuts), and in the Self-Government Office each of the parliamentary groups to put forward their initiatives, and to reach agreements as soon as possible. You always mention Catalonia as an example and reference, as the model we have to copy. I insist that Catalonia took its own path and political model thirty-five years ago, and, as I said to you, then we respect it and today too. The Catalans bet on one model of self-government and Euskadi on the other, based on the rights of the outside territories. We have both been re-centralised, but the starting points today are different, partly because of the decisions that were taken before, because of the decisions that were taken in 1978 and 1979. What is important to me, in any case, is that Catalan society should speak freely this Sunday. And the important thing is that after Sunday it will be necessary, I am sure, dialogue and negotiation, and it will therefore be necessary to arbitrate a political answer to a purely political question. Bilaterality. Unilateral decisions by the State, non-compliance with the Statute, re-centralization, undermine the Statute of Gernika, and this is the message I want to make clear when I speak of the degradation of the spirit of the Covenant and the degradation of the Statute, and degradation also according to what is invasive legislation and what is jurisprudence. And guarantees of compliance are necessary. This is bilaterality, that a part of the pact cannot be imposed and the pact altered. This morning I recognized the correctness of the bet for the Statute of Gernika, and I reiterate it. It has given us well-being, cohesion and the greatest institutionalization of the history of the Basque people. The Statute has been the legal-political instrument that has made it possible to articulate coexistence between Basques, and between Basques and the State. And if anything has been shown is that self-government, trust in our institutions, has enabled us to achieve a level of welfare and social justice as we had not known before. And I sincerely believe that the legal and institutional architecture with which Euskadi is based is the starting point (starting point) for the process of a new political and legal articulation. And I also reiterate that we have a great opportunity, as I said this morning, to move forward in collaboration – from what is also that identification of the Foral Community of Navarra – with Navarra, and to frame it in cross-border collaboration. Well, the Statute is not being complied with. There are twenty-four matters pending transfer to Euskadi, and eight others in varying degrees of execution. It is intended to re-centralize the State, and for competitive conflicts, in addition to what we have said about matters and functions that are still to be transferred, it could also say that we have been forced to bring eleven constitutional remedies, five positive conflicts of jurisdiction before the Constitutional Court, and three conflicts before the Dispute-Administrative Court. The State avoids maintaining a bilateral and agreed relationship. We lack an effective system of guarantees for Basque self-government, and that is why we need Euskadi's new political status to be respected and to provide for guarantees of compliance. Recognition and bilaterality entail the shielding of the statutory pact, and the provision of equal areas for policy design and conflict resolution. And I repeat – I want to make it clear – my bet is the pact. We need a shared project, we need the necessary skills to ensure the country design we want. There is a need to prevent unilateral attitudes against the Basque Government from continuing. And the starting point is democratic demand. Since the first day of government we have made it our priority to attend to the crisis, to guarantee services and cohesion, to reactivate the economy and employment. And the new political status is also a necessity, and we have to devote effort to it. Therefore, the Government's priority is to get out of the crisis, because it is an urgent need, but, ladies and gentlemen, a new political status is a necessity for the future of Euskadi. I would like to conclude my participation in this general policy debate by stressing the will of the Basque Government to move Euskadi forward. We want Euskadi to move forward from consensus, from collaboration, from cooperation. We need a shared country project, and we are working to unite the wills that make it possible. Euskadi needs coordinated and joint action by the Basque administrations. Euskadi needs dialogue and political agreement, he needs stability and confidence at a time when we are experiencing major uncertainties. Euskadi needs private involvement, public-private collaboration and a social consensus to maintain good leadership. Euskadi is a common project, inclusive, social and solidarity. Euskadi needs us to build the economic and social future, to achieve definitive peace and coexistence, and to build a new shared and agreed political project. And at this point, the Government is going to keep the work undertaken three years ago in three commitments: Commitment to employment, economic recovery and social policies; ensuring public services and social policies, aware of the need to continue to manage from rigour and economic stability; establishing economic recovery and creating more and better jobs, and designing a future project that over the coming months will have the centre of action in employment, innovation and the Basque Country strategy as an open and comprehensive vision of the country. Another commitment, that of peace and coexistence, and commitment to a new political status. And this Parliament, for its part, I believe that the work of the Self-Government Commission must be completed. I reiterate my respect for parliamentary work, and I move on to the search for a common diagnosis that will allow us a new political future pact for Euskadi, a new political status. And I want to end – an appeal has also been made – with a message of illusion. Euskadi has a future, Basque society is strong, it is a worker, and at every moment in its history it has been able to take the right course. I referred in the morning speech to those who preceded us. And those who preceded us at every moment were able to make the decisions that today have made this country modern, cohesive and competitive. And to assume our responsibility at this moment, to convey the boldness and intelligence necessary to guarantee a new economic, social and political future, we owe it, yes, to those who preceded us, but above all we owe it to those who will succeed us, to those generation of young people who must know that their future is Euskadi and that their future is in Euskadi, because Euskadi has a future. I've been grateful to the U.S. patriots by the law team, and I've tried to bring out a hopeful view of it. I know problems, I know difficulties, but I have confidence in institutions, even in eupscal society. I just wanted to say that the government will complete the program today. We'll keep our promise. And I confirm that the key of the future is a collaboration. That's what's going to be: the increase of association, in order to overcome our challenges among us all. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Passing on the answering round Mistto-UPyD's spokesman. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u22	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Mr. Lehendakari. The truth is that at the beginning of his speech I listened to him the review he made of my own speech and I thought, "Yes, he has indeed taken good note of all that I have said to him, and I have certainly been quite blunt." And I think I've made a good intervention. [[Barres]] , because I believe that the parliamentary opposition is not to say the things that this government has been able to do well, although it has not done too much, but above all to point out where the problems lie. And that's what I've done. I have not, therefore, been a catastrophe, much less, but I have raised, with data in addition, the problems that many Basque citizens have. Because it has certainly drawn my attention in your first intervention that you have not referred to anything that I have raised in my first intervention, in relation to job insecurity, in relation to the temporality of employment, in relation to the increase or maintenance of poverty, in relation to the increase in inequality that has occurred during these years in Euskadi. He had not said it, he has not said it, he has not pointed it out, and therefore I have reminded him of it. You don't like criticism, but criticism is very important. You've been learning a lot in this Parliament since you've been lehendakari, haven't you? What's he learning a lot? [[Barres]] He is learning a lot not thanks to Mr Egibar: he is learning a lot thanks to the spokespersons of the opposition groups, who point out to him what mistakes this Government is making or what you are making yourself. It is our duty to point out to you what your mistakes are, what you have not done, or what you have done wrong. So, what you had to do is thank me and thank the rest of the groups for all this work that we've done so beautifully over these three years, because when you stop being lehendakari you'll look back and say, "Well, I did learn a lot while I was lehendakari, thanks to all those I had in front." In the same way, by the way, I myself have been learning a lot in this Parliament since 2009. And, indeed, I have wanted to point out some of the fundamental problems that Basque society has. You tell me that at the beginning of the legislature we had 169,000 unemployed, and today we have 155,000. Right. Congratulations, not to your Government anymore: above all to those citizens who have been able to find a job. But there are still many problems. We have partial, temporary and precarious employment. It is not that it is not of sufficient quality, as you said, but that the employment that is being created in recent months is indeed partial, temporary and precarious employment. And that there are still many problems, and that there is energy poverty, and that there is child poverty, and that thousands of young people in recent times have left Euskadi. How can I not remind you, if I am one of the strongest members of the opposition to your government? I have to remind you. You say, "We're better than a year ago." Some Basque citizens are even worse. There are many Basque citizens who are even worse than a year ago. There are a lot of people who are having a bad time. And at least I have forced him to say something more in his second speech, in a more insistent and clearer way in relation to these problems. You say that, in the end, we are much better than the rest of Spain, but what happens is that when you're interested, you look south, and rarely look north. For example, Euskadi has one of the highest unemployment rates in Europe, so we have to remind him, don't we? And we have to remind you that all this time you and your Government have not been able to solve those problems, and now we are being presented with 70 measures to correct the situation. We'll see what they give you. At the moment, you and you have not been able to solve those very serious problems that society has, or many Basque citizens at least. He says that Euskadi is a leader in everything. Great that he's a leader in everything. What happens is that I was already a leader before you came to the presidency of the Basque Government. He was already a leader, he hasn't changed anything about it. Nor does it have much merit to be better than the rest of Spain, especially in terms of unemployment, economic activity, etc., etc. Therefore, it does not compare so much with the rest of Spain, as it usually does, and look at the evolution of the Basque economy. Do not talk to me so much about GDP, in short; talk more about the dignity of the Basque citizens, and of those citizens who are certainly having a bad time. By the way, the difference with the rest of Spain is smaller, it is narrowing, and there are even those who speak of a Spanishization of the Basque economy as a result of the fact that industry grows less than services. And that is also a serious problem. What has been done well, is maintained, but what needs to be done to correct certain errors, certain problems, so let's do it, which is what I have raised. What is your concrete proposal? What are we left with? The outside nation? Do you give up independence? Why don't you give up independence? You do not renounce independence. Therefore, every time I come down to this rostrum and we talk about the new status, I have to remind you what the Spanish Constitution says, what the current law says, or what the limits are. Because I know you want to achieve independence, and I'll do everything I can to keep you from achieving that goal. I say to him because, in the end, without concreteizing anything, I say, he raises things that are outside the Spanish Constitution: the right to decide, political bilaterality, the foreign nation... And it also poses things and defends ideas that are detrimental to the coexistence of citizens and to the well-being of people. As, for example, we manage social security here or pensions. That would be harmful, it would be very harmful, it would be much worse for us. What happens is that you put forward any nationalist proposal as a step forward, and I believe that there is nothing more reactionary than any nationalism. You say, "No, the more self-government, the better." Well, I don't think so on many occasions. What happens is that you pose that as a step forward, and that, in my opinion, is no step forward. For me there is nothing more reactionary than breaking the common citizenship that we maintain with the rest of Spanish citizens. There is nothing more reactionary than that, breaking the shared citizenship we have with the rest of Spanish citizens. And I have to tell you, and I repeat, that you do indeed stand on your feet. Cheerful waiting for what is happening in Catalonia and waiting for what is happening in the general elections. I certainly think so. Because I believe Mr Egibar, I believe that you are indeed still a nationalist party, and I am convinced that you will do your utmost to achieve independence and thus to raise new frontiers between fellow citizens. And that's what I'm going to oppose absolutely always. You were talking about degradation. I say this, for me to dismember the state is to degrade, to break shared citizenship is to degrade coexistence, and therefore my obligation is to put it on the table and remind it. You speak of a foreign nation and of historical rights on a permanent basis. In my opinion, they are rancid and anti-European concepts, and they are deeply reactionary. I believe in democratic citizenship, which is the "set of rights, duties and guarantees recognized by the State to each of us. They are not based on any predetermined cultural, ethnic, ideological, religious or racial identity, but on our membership as members of the constitutionally existing institution, which establishes the rules of play that we share, based on respect for which everyone can try to design the profile that he wants to give to his life, whether to resemble one or to differ from all," as Fernando Savater said. I defend this, democratic citizenship, rather than old concepts and rancid concepts as a foreign nation or historical rights. Three years lost, actually. You want to reform the Statute. Why don't you look inside, what can be reformed within Euskadi? We have a report by the previous Basque Government on this €400 million that we would save ourselves if there were a thorough reform of the Historical Territories Act and if we eliminated duplication and inefficiencies. You're not interested in that. It does not want to reform the Basque institutional framework, it does not want to reform the Historical Territories Act, and it does not want to reduce or modernize the corporate framework. If this were done, we'd all be better off. We would have much more resources to make them available to health, education, employment, scholarships, conciliation aid, maternity and paternity aid, more for social expenditure, more for R & D+i, and more for housing, if that were done. Now he says yes, he's going to discuss that bill or that bill of historic territories, but the truth is that for three years he has permanently refused the debate. Anyway, I'm finishing up. With regard to peace and coexistence, you criticise that I criticize you, but I have no other remedy. Because if we respond to the events that have taken place, I say, especially in the last few weeks, how am I not going to be critical, if you criticize the arrests of ETA members, or if at least you don't celebrate them, or if at least members of your political party even reject them! How are we not going to be critical, if they include in the list of Jonan Fernández ages who died for natural causes! How we're not gonna be critical! How are we not going to be critical, if they organize a meeting to honor certain victims in certain municipalities, and it turns out that they invite EH Bildu, who does not condemn ETA, and do not invite the People's Party, with the excuse that the People's Party does not have mayors in those municipalities. That is certainly a regrettable thing, and that is why I say that you encourage, with these kinds of proposals, with these kinds of attitudes, the theory of political conflict and the equidistance that characterizes them. Anyway, I just want to end up saying that I believe in Euskadi too. You said in your first intervention, at a certain time, that you believe in Euskadi. I believe in Basques, too, and Basques. The problem is that I don't believe in your government, and I don't believe in the Basque Nationalist Party. And, therefore, I will continue to oppose your Government, the Basque Nationalist Party, and you as lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u23	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Quiroga, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, I don't know if you already wrote it and you haven't listened to me this afternoon, but at no point in my entire speech, and I think I'm sure of that... We can look into the Journal of Sessions, but I'm so sure I haven't said we're in a worse situation. You know why? Because my whole approach throughout the debate was precisely to highlight two positive facts. And putting those two data into value also suits me, because you know that part of that is also for a number of policies that have been taken at the national level, and that have worked well, and that we are also benefiting from in Euskadi. That's why I'm telling you that I recognize that the situation is better than in 2012. What I have said to you, and I have tried to argue with numbers throughout my speech, is precisely that the Basques should be in better positions and emerge from the crisis at a different rate, precisely because of the capacity we have and the self-government we have and the instruments we have at our disposal. And what I have tried to say is precisely that it is this government that is not up to the circumstances, that is not going to the pace, that is not making the decisions with the speed and the effectiveness with which it should take them. When I was talking to you about budget implementation, that you have certainly given me no reason why these budget executions are so slow, do you know why it is? Because when this Government decides to launch an aid line, by the time that order is launched, by the time those requests arrive at the Government and finally that aid reaches the recipients, it takes more than a year. That is why it is not being carried out, because of the slowness of this Government when it comes to putting these actions into effect! That is what I am telling you: that this government is not dynamic, because it does not make changes, because it does not modernize the administration to be more agile and to respond much faster to all these needs. That's what I told you this morning. And that is why I told him to make better use of our self-government and our ability, from his Government, to be more effective and to accompany the needs of the moments that we are living, that are fast, that need quick and much more agile responses. You also told us about taxation here. He says he doesn't get a tax cut. I think so, lehendakari. I think you know that's driving the economy. The problem is that it gets you out of your comfort situation, in which you sort of, sort of, already control how the collection is going to go, and that prevents you from making decisions and staying on this kind of raft where you don't mind the situation. But this is not about this government being more comfortable, but about people having more resources to be able to boost that economy. That's why I was telling you that families are the first to be demanding that tax reduction, which is what you should be leading next year. We talked about fraud. You still don't tell me how much you've collected from fraud! Because that's what they put in the papers. In the documents that appeared from those plans that were to start, yes, I put it, that there would be tax fraud of 6 billion, and that would finance the plans. And, listen, I want to know – because I think this Parliament has a right to know – how these plans are progressing on the basis of those resources that would be available. And you didn't say anything. He hasn't entered those debates, he hasn't entered the numbers, he hasn't entered the numbers that I, in a humble way, but I think he's the most honest, I've tried to unwind and put on the table. Because it seems to me that this is the debate that we Basques deserve: how it is being managed, whether it is being effective in spending or not, and whether that spending is actually having effect. And we see they're going a lot slower than they should be. He's told me about Lanbide, and it's true, I think it's very recurring to talk about inheritance. "It's just that Lanbide wasn't just us, he came from behind..." Yeah, but they've been running Lanbide longer than the previous government, okay? Three years in September. Three years, in September. And you were going to come and fix everything, because you were the government champions, because you were the management champions! Three years! It's just that that's the reality. That's why what I wanted to tell you this afternoon is that we expected more, because you told us that you were going to be much better, and that Euskadi was going to live a reboot. And we're seeing that no, that's not it. And the data backs up that of course we're doing better, because the trend, the inertia is a cycle change, but that we used to lead, and not now. And you have endeavoured to explain to us all that this is the position that we have to play now, that Euskadi has to be like this. And you know that no, that Euskadi has greater potential, and that the problem is that this government is not up to the level of Basque society. You've also told me that the lack of bills or passed laws is partly the fault of Parliament, isn't it? It's Parliament's fault. Man, I have been President of Parliament! I know the majority you have in the Bureau! I know how this works! Man, don't hide in that! Of course, if you're waiting for the last year to bring us the real bills, the ones that have an impact on Basque society... Of course! But if it's clear, if it's obvious, if the numbers sing, lehendakari! Now, the blame will be on the system, the system that makes them pass by I don't know how many reports until it becomes a bill. That is why you are here, to reform all that, to speed up the processes within the Government for the drafting of bills. If this is old! If I've been here for a few years now! All governments sit there and say that it's the Administration's fault, that it has to do a whole process, I don't know what... This has always been said, but nobody gets there and actually does a reform to be much more agile by legislating, as they are in other parliaments. They are no better than us, and they are at a much higher legislative pace than this. More. Budget implementation. Mr Egibar says that of course he is convinced that we will arrive at the end of the year and that everything will be carried out. Well, it's not a matter of faith; these are numbers. These are numbers, and the numbers right now what they're telling us is that we're going with the handbrake cast, and you're making a calculation, you're making a calculation, and that's not good for dynamizing the Basque economy. I would also like to refer briefly to the issue of pensions, because, Lehendakari, you tell me that I am a paternalist. Man, I'm not going to give lessons in paternalism to the Basque Nationalist Party, which if there is a paternalist party it is precisely the Basque Nationalist Party, but, leaving that aside, I'm talking to you about a reality. Do you recognise that there is a deficit now, at the moment, of 2 billion? Yeah. Good. The last calculations I know are that we thought we'd balance that with the EPSVs. Is that going to tell the Basques? Sure, let's do the numbers! And, apart from that, there is always the temptation that they have to remain alone with the wording of the Statute, but this of the provisions leaves it as aside. The statute must be read to them in its entirety. There is also a provision that says that the single box will not be broken. Don't you? Oh, no. Neither. There is no such provision. [[Berber]] Oh, good! Okay. All right, all right, all right! Okay! Nothing, either. Okay. The case is, lehendakari, for going to data, because I think we have to be rigorous in this, the reality at the moment is that to guarantee pensions it would take 2.1% replacement rate, 2.1, and we in Euskadi are at 0.8. If it's a matter of numbers, of realities! Realities. But, well, just like you here can go out and say you're going to guarantee those pensions, when you know that's not so. And I'm ending up with two questions, best three, if I may also a little bit the president. A lot has been said here about birth, and it is precisely today that a number of parliamentarians have been congratulated. I too would like to congratulate you, Mr Arraiz. I wish you all the best for those creatures who come along the way. You said you were going to tell them a story, a story in which there were two sides that were doing a lot of damage. Be careful, because if you tell them that and generate that feeling that here in Euskadi there have been two sides that have been hurting each other, perhaps within a few years they understand that they are legitimized or legitimized to take up arms again, because they consider that you were a traitor to the cause, and start the story again. Look, I have a 14-year-old son, and I haven't told him the story. I just told him that we have to respect each other no matter what we think, that we have to be respectful, and that killing, killing, is always wrong, never has justification. I didn't explain anything else to him. Nothing more, because I don't want to condition my son, because I want him to live in freedom, because I don't want the seed of hatred to grow in him. On that basis we will build the future of Euskadi. Not telling the stories that suit us, because probably what will cost you is telling your children where you were, where you were. And I'm done. Two things. Outside nation, lehendakari. We have already clarified ourselves a little more: based on historicism and decision-making. Decision-making, lehendakari. Schmitt's decision? Do I read you what Schmitt's decision-making says? "It consists in making sovereign authority the absolute source of any moral and legal decision in political life. This doctrine has a specifically authoritarian feature that is not involved..." Well, lehendakari, if I was worried before, this deserves an explanation. Look, I'm gonna finish (president, thanking you for your generosity), telling you the same thing with what you ended this morning. I want to thank the Basques, I want to thank all the Basques, all these years for their work, their dedication, their bet, their risk, their strength to face this complicated situation, despite having the government we have in the Basque Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs. Mountain, your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u26	Good afternoon. Well, as it was in the script, the nationalist parties have basically come to mark this plenary by talking about flags, homelands, outland nations... because that's what worries them the most. But the Socialists already know that what we have done has been to conjure ourselves mainly to come here and talk about what concerns the Basques. And not because we socialists say it, but because the Basques themselves say it, even those who vote for nationalist parties. They are concerned about employment, education, health, social policies... Those are the issues they are concerned about. And on those matters I have focused my intervention this morning mainly and I will try to focus now too. Because when I speak of self-government we are talking above all about competences in employment, in health, in education, in social protection..., in all those competences, that we have them, that we do not have to wait for anyone to give them to us, because we already have them in the Statute of Autonomy. And what we demand of this Government is political will to carry them forward with determination. But I have also reiterated in this rostrum, before all of you, the commitment of the socialists to self-government. For us, getting more and better self-government is much better for the Basques. Because basically self-government we understand it as service to the Basques, as a better defense of their rights and freedoms. And we want self-government to be useful to the Basques, and we want it within a project shared with Spain and in Europe. That is the proposal of the Socialists. We do not accept either proposals for independence or rights to decide, nor consultations, nor issues such as bilaterality, which is a renewal of other old issues, or the new linguistic finding of your Government for this plenary, which is the outside nation. And we have a lot of work ahead of us, and I don't think it would be good to get lost in words or nominalisms, and go to the root of the problem. We have the paper, and we think we have to focus on what we consider to be the main problem of self-government, which is to shield competences. That is the root of the problem, that we can exercise our powers to better defend Basques and better develop their social rights. I prefer not to lose myself, as I said, neither in words nor in reports without rigour that have been presented. There is much work to be done in the paper (that is, I share it with you, Mr Lehendakari), but it is also true that, although you have said in this rostrum to respect the will of Parliament, it seemed to me that it was pure pose, because you, and also the spokesman for the Basque Nationalist group, have passed, to point out to us the way in which the final result of that paper has to be. And I remind you, the Socialists do not share the nationalist solutions, because we are not nationalist, but we do share with you a question, which is to review what we have. And for that we must also start by recognizing that Basque autonomy has served this country very well, that we are much better as a society now, and that if in the future we reform it from consensus and legality will be much better for Basques, sure. I propose that you take the opportunity of the new time that will be opened in Spain, of a constitutional reform, to improve that relationship, to clarify the competences, to create spaces where the differences that exist between the different governments can be resolved. And that's our proposal. And also, as I said in my speech, take advantage of this moment also to improve the relationship between the Basque administrations. And, from what I have heard in the reply on the Historical Territories Act, it has given me the impression that you have not had too much time to read the proposal, but I have found in you a much more tone to find us, unlike the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party, the coordinator of the group, who has dispatched you with two commandos. Then, I will remain with that predisposition to debate, agreement and consensus-building, and we will give ourselves time to do so. I would also like to touch again on an issue that is important to us and that we have said this morning: we do not want to lose this legislature on issues of coexistence and memory. And the truth is that all the agreements entered into, all the consensus entered into in the last legislature, in this legislature they have been deluged, they have been lost. The Basque government in this legislature..., I know it's wrong to say it, but it's going to be a legislature lost in memory and coexistence, because, beyond a handful of headlines, a few photos and plans without substance, well, you haven't brought anything else into this House. And we also believe that (this is the management of the Basque Nationalist Party in the Basque Government) the management of the People's Party on these issues at the head of the Spanish Government does not share it either. And neither do we share how Mr Maneiro brings these issues to the House, but there is one issue that, despite these differences that we have in the PNV, the Socialist Party, UPyD and the People's Party, there is something in common between all of us (among you, Mr Urkullu, Mrs Quiroga, Mr Maneiro and myself), and that is that we can all say without ambiguities, without turning around, that we condemn terrorism, that killing was wrong; that we should never have killed, kidnapped, tortured or threatened anyone, either on behalf of the State or on behalf of any political idea. And whatever any of us say, or from the seats of the Basque Nationalist Party, the People's Party, the Socialist Party or the UPyD, it's not new, it's not news, but it would be news, Mr. Arraiz, that you said it from your bench. Any of you, let me say it. Because you've talked about your children, you've talked about the future of this country. What a better service for the future of this country that you make that statement! And that, Mr Urkullu, is the substrate and the basis on which the Socialists move on that issue. And we're not going to move a step back on that cohabitation issue. And, as I said at the beginning, we are going to focus on issues that are of interest to citizens and which they have repeatedly said is their main concern, namely employment, employment and the economy and public services. And, look, I've recognized him and it's true: the data is better, there are fewer people targeted at Lanbide. I will never blame you for unemployment, because you are not guilty of unemployment, nor of the causes of chronicity, nor of precariousness. But he will always hear me demand that he express to the maximum the tools that the self-government has delivered into his hands. The Basque Government has the greatest of tools, it's the best, and you're not exploiting it to the fullest. They're getting along with managing in a pretty poor way. And we – and you know it too – are not going to escape you, because we have not escaped you in these three years, not a single proposal that we think can serve the Basques, which can serve you to reduce the unemployment of the Basques, to put an end to the precariousness, to improve your situation. Because for us the biggest priority is to care for young people, to care for the unemployed, to care for those people who have been in GIR for many years and who see the future without hope. And these are the things we ask you to do, aren't they? You were criticizing the plan I proposed to you, because it said, "Well, there's no news, it's already included, isn't there?". Indeed, yes, we have included it in the last budgets: specific items on sustainable building, training of unemployed workers in that particular area, because we believed that this could make it possible to make synergies within the government departments in order to generate more power in helping the unemployed. Our surprise has been that we have not found that progress with the strength we intended, and that is why we have brought it. And also because they are subjects that you know are on the Social Dialogue Bureau and which have the support of employers and trade unions, and in this Parliament they have the support of my group. So, take advantage of that backup, don't forget it. Because the government that preceded you, the Patxi López government, recovered the Social Dialogue Bureau, after a decade of not convening it and not considering it a useful tool, and we demand you to convene it in this legislature. He lost two years, which means it took him two years to summon her. They soon found agreements, because trade unions and employers felt that it was a useful tool, which in addition in the Nordic countries – in which we so much like to look at employment policies and social policies – is the tool used, the social dialogue table. Well, please unblock the measures that are approved there, carry out all the policies of training employees who are in ERE, of long-term unemployed workers... Anyway, move on with all those plans, have country ambition... What I was saying to you at the beginning: is that you are dedicated to managing the present, and you have to manage the urgency of the present, yes, indeed, but you have to do it looking to the future above all, and consolidating that future. And those stones of the future we have to put now. And in matters of social protection, I'm going to focus on it again. We made a full monograph on poverty and employment. Here you have a lot of resolutions adopted by this Parliament, which can give you the key to building a solid foundation for sustainable and social growth that will end this gap that has been established between the Basques, the fruit of the crisis. And you have made a point, and some other group in the House too, about the legislative timetable. I hadn't mentioned it, I didn't want to go into the debate on the legislative calendar, but the truth is... First of all, because they don't like it, because Parliament's website is very transparent and it sings right away and it leaves them in evidence... But I will give you an example of where everything converges around the Government and its parliamentary group. The Statute for Women in Agriculture. The law was left by the previous government; you referred it to the House in November 2014, no group appearances have been requested. On 18 March they already had all the amendments from all the groups. The paper is chaired by the Basque Nationalist Party, and has not been convened until last week. Lehendakari, that's not the fault of the parliamentary groups... I could quote more, but, finally, really, I think they're on evidence. And it is not right to blame the House groups on those issues. And I would also like to make another assessment (I am finishing, Madam President): you do not have to thank us for the support of your Government, Lehendakari; you do not have to thank the Socialists. We do not support the Basque Government; we support citizens, because we want them not to suffer the social gap that leaves the crisis, and we want them to have social policies that support them and policies that boost employment, so that their lives are better. That's what socialists do and that's what guides us. A great deal of work remains to be done in this last course of the parliamentary mandate. I tell you again, this government has started badly; it has turned around, Parliament has marked a social agenda that you are addressing, but from time to time you are being dismissed. We will be very vigilant so that they do not lose track, because the budgets..., we have the budgets in place and some budgets will come to the House, and they have to be used to improve those of the previous year. We don't want any cuts in those budgets. Of course, the Socialists are not going to admit any, nor in any case, as their Government seems to be running. And if you have shifted invoices to another year, from one year to another, as the Court of Auditors has already detected in the report it presented in June in this House, it will be your problem, it will be the problem of your economic managers, but I do not want it to be the problem of the Basque citizens. Then, lehendakari, we will always continue to find and agree with us where we cut down the inequalities of the citizens, where we can help the sufferer, who remains on the road for the effects of the crisis. But I would also like to remind you, as I said in the previous speech, that today we are playing into the future of this country, of the Basque citizens. Be ambitious, have country ambition, and make decisions. We will be for not allowing your Government any distraction and supporting you on those issues that go that way, but not the wrong way. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u27	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Mr. Ariz, representing the EH Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u28	Good afternoon again. I'll try to make it a little bit. For the first time, we thought it was a gathering on the general policy, and perhaps an insolence, but it seems to us that this question has not been so far as the people and the circumstances demand it. Maybe even our contribution hasn't helped. But considering the state in which the Spanish State is in, what sort of disputes are being opened throughout Europe, as well as the new state in the Spanish State, and in Catalonia, it seems to us that the historical occasion demands us, and we have a sense of being punished politically inoperatively. On the other hand, we talked about peace. We have mentioned it and repeat that we do not believe the past to be the priority. But it is not in order to avoid the subject, because we think that the present ought to be a priority, because all that is not yet solved ought to be preferred. In this, of course, we believe that to disarm, that all victims are victims and prisoners, because they are things that are not to be solved. I have already alluded to it, and I believe we have been able to speak of the past to-day. I've spoken, and I don't know, but I think we've said new things. Perhaps the problem is that we do not speak, but do not listen to each other; at least, our feeling is that we do not listen to each other, and perhaps, in spite of much talking, we do not really communicate to each other. Zentzu horretan, guk uste dugu esan dugula, like euskraz esan izanagatik izango daea batzuek ez dute ulertu. We haven't said we're going to count two sides. We have said that we are going to tell and that we must tell everything that has happened in this country, everything, absolutely everything that has happened: what they have done to us, what they have done to me, and what I have done to me too. That's what we're gonna tell you. And we have also said that we are going to tell that violence is always a pernicious path, and that, although you can sometimes think that it is the only way, that is the only way, then it is also a pernicious path. And that's not what I'm saying here today for the first time. I didn't make this up myself. I don't know if the left has said it abertzale. José Miguel Beñaran Ordenañana, Argala, said so. Argala, an ETA activist, was responsible for the death of Carrero Blanco, who was awarded the category of victim, and Argala, the same Argala, was the victim of the Spanish Basque Battalion. It's our story, it's everyone's story. These are the things that have happened in this country. We said that we were the guarantee that nothing would happen again. But it looks like violence's over. One violence is over, but there are others. And they have to end, they have to end it for once or there won't be any peace. In this respect, that they are self-critic, Mr. Egibar has been teaching all the rest of the world about it again, giving them moral lessons. Mr. Egibar, you have to share it with everyone. I think I should be a little more humble. It seems that his party, his political tradition, is the only one that is clean of all macula. I don't want to go in there right now. You will then again have the opportunity to vomit again on the left abertzale, which is what is best given to you in recent times. I'm just going to give a small example: I think it's not very consistent with that self-criticism attitude what happened with the subject of Iñigo Cabacas. That is, the police officer responsible for the operation for which Iñigo Cabacas is killed is appointed head of the Ertzaintza. I don't think that's what you can understand as self-critical reading. And then, on top of that, it is the secretary of peace and coexistence who goes where the relatives of Iñigo Cabacas tell them that it will not be possible to clarify which agent fired, I think that does not correspond to a self-critical reading, which is the one they ask for the rest and that it seems that for you do not have. We also think you won't listen to us about the car. At least we either said it or maybe we didn't say it right: the law of consulting is one thing. And this law of consulting, this law of power, we plan on this and other things, not only to determine them. It's a tool, so it has to stay outside of that self-portrait outfit because it's also for other things. And political agreement, we place it on self-interest. For this purpose, too, we say that we shall make a proposition. And in this proposition there are two axes or something. One is that the right to decide is to take historical rights today, and in that you can take whatever you want, we see it, maybe an opportunity for a possible arrangement. And then, on the other hand, we mention, that, in our opinion, only the degree of right which belongs to this member of the community may be limited by the will of the people. That's exactly what we pretend to be. And from that point on, I think they can be able to understand each other if there is any small will. And in case you have any doubts, I'll tell you clearly. We do not seek you, and neither are you so important as to think that the idea of a law of consultation is formulated uniquely and exclusively as a confrontation with the PNV. We're not looking for the PNV in that confrontation. Irremediably, we have a confrontation, this people has a democratic confrontation with a state that neither recognizes it nor will it recognize it, whether the PP or the PSOE is in government, nor will it recognize it as a subject of decision. That is the democratic confrontation that exists. And we're not interested in a confrontation between this bench and this one. We're not interested at all. We are interested in the confrontation of this people with that state that does not recognize it. It's the one we want and it's the one we're looking for. From there, you'll say. And whether it's the model of Catalan or not, I don't know. But with everything that's happening in the Catalonia, beginning to appear at the end of the replica made by us in this plano, it seems paradoxical to us. The importance of such an important political event appears to us to be paradigmatic. And in this respect I don't know whether Catalonia is a pattern or not, but Catalonia is making the way. That's why we protect the catalonians because they're making their way. We're trying to make our way, but here it's paralysis now. And we believe it is because there is no will to resist the State. And that disguises itself in other words. But the state will give us nothing, we must take it, and from the moment we have no light, it will be very difficult to advance, to start making our way. That's what we're looking for. That's what people want us to do. Citizens care more about the issues that you talk about, but then you don't vote so much for yourselves, you being the ones who talk about what citizens care about. It turns out that I believe that the problems faced by Basque citizens are going to find a solution precisely where we are asking: by letting them decide freely and democratically their future in political, social and economic terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ray. In conclusion, Mr. Egibar, the Egibar, representative of the team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u30	Good afternoon again. Two or three pointizations to Madam Quiroga. Bat. The economic recovery plan, which revolves around 6 billion, when it insistently reproduces an error, an error I don't know if of information or other kind... In any case, you should know that the plan is 6 billion, and that funding, as far as the anti-fraud part and the results of the tax reform are concerned, is set at 550 million for three years. Read it: 550 million for the three years, and nutrients are tax reform and the fight against fraud. Look at him, or look at him. Secondly, in the Constitution he also made the same mistake Mariano Rajoy. When he was told about the unitary character of Social Security, he said "single box". No, there's no single box. There's no single box. There is talk of a unitary character. And one thing is ownership of resources, and another is management. And the fifth transitory, which develops 18.2, speaks exactly of the convention; therefore, the transfer is contemplated. Thirdly, the issue of the surplus and deficit sequence. Indeed, you amount in 2014 or 2013 to 2 billion. Yes, yes! What doesn't tell me are the previous ones, where are the surpluses. And I can talk to you from 2000 to 2008, and if you want to recalculate the previous ones, where the surpluses have been. I do not even tell you if we compare the financing of public administrations operating in Euskadi, who and what surplus they get! Of all, every year the Spanish State obtains surplus. Then if we do account, if we start to liquidate society, which is not profit-making, I think the accounts can come out in a direction that you do not contemplate. Bigarren gaia, PSOE self-governing guruan. I don't think so, he has no credibility. This permanent appeal to "let's reform the Constitution and you'll see"... But there are a number of facts that give them away. One, apart from what may be the chimera or fantasy, that of constitutional reform... Because you'll tell me who and why you're going to get those two-thirds or three-fifths majority! But, well, two acts. You have recovered the previous remedy of unconstitutionality for the statutes of autonomy. You have deliberately unprotected the Statute, removed it from the constitutional bloc, when the Statute of Autonomy had a specific path. Yes, it was you! And then here, in the Self-Government Paper, among the reports they have requested is one that powerfully draws attention, which is the one presented by the Socialist Party, its group, where a report is requested from the Cojua to determine the limits of the debate. Because some of your rapporteur, or participant, understands that concepts (he does not dare to formulate: or the right to decide or political subjects) that should not even be discussed. The scope of the debate itself is being restricted. What reform is going to come out of there? I believe it is an impossible mission that you are posing. Of course, we are not going to be persuaded in that direction. I believe..., and this Parliament has had different pronouncements in recent times, but with regard to the Statute of Autonomy the lehendakari has spoken, as lehendakari, and in the morning it said "I allude to the ideological acquis of the Basque Nationalist Party, of the positions of each one"... We're not saying things that are inconsistent! I mean, does anyone believe at this point that you can regain that famous consensus that gave political character to the Statute of Autonomy? That consensus disappeared many years ago! In the only attempt to reform the Statute, which was in 2004-2005, the reform proposal was not even allowed to proceed in Madrid. It's hurrying. And we are not sure if in the foreground of a possible reform or proposal. I think if we're facing that historic moment, if we have to speak clearly... It is also true that we are not going to participate in an operation to put purpurin to the oxide. We are not in a lifting operation of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. If the historical moment has come for Spain and Euskadi to understand each other, it will have to be from mutual recognition, respect and mutual recognition as a political subject in order to establish a new political relationship. And you don't see it, you don't see it; then it seems like imposition to you. Not yours. You say, "There will be consensus if there is the Socialist Party; if there is not the Socialist Party, there will be no consensus." For this Parliament has also adopted a declaration a few months ago recognizing the political subject of the Basque people and their right to decide, and there may be, and indeed there is, the proposal to agree on the exercise. Then I don't know. You know we're Basque nationalists, right? We're not Spanish, we don't feel Spanish. So, we have nothing against Spain or against the Spanish, obviously, but, as I prayed or picked up a sign at the Diada in Catalonia on the 11th, it said that of "We don't feel, we don't want, we don't need to be Spanish". What part of the prayer is not understood? And yet, we have to live together. Is it so difficult to think, to articulate a mechanism of coexistence from the respect of the two nations or of the two peoples? There's the difference! You do not understand that there is a people to whom your rights must be recognized. We think so. Moreover, I would ask the Socialist Party and also the People's Party a question: Do you believe that Spanish democracy has matured, matured enough, modernized enough to admit a debate of this nature? Because the positions of the People's Party or the Socialist Party are not homologated in Europe. In Europe, the top leaders are acting in a different way. And Rajoy himself, referring to the issue of Catalonia, has internationalized the matter by talking to Cameron, Obama and I don't know who else. He's internationalized! So, if solutions have been articulated in Europe, why is it not possible in Catalonia and in Euskadi? Mr. Ariz, what I see is that you are of very fine skin. Look, I don't have to flirt with you, and I've applied what Xabier Lete says in the song: "When you grow up, you will see how much silence is worth, go on your way, that is better, above all things, like the wind." The thin skin shows up at least in Union. I thought it wasn't a matter of politics, and of course it's the main thing for me is political maturity. And I don't think I gave anybody any moral lessons, why PNV does his own self-criticity too. And each one belongs to you. And about the new political state of affairs you mentioned, and the query, you know, was a few years ago the patriotic left man was in other strategies at that time, but we introduced him into the text of our new political state, where we read 133 points, and there you will see the right to determine how the process of execution of a democratic exercise is performed. This was proposed by us, and we defend it to-day: that this people have a right to determine their future. And in the previous session, what I've said to you at the end of the session, we've got a career, you've got yours. But to think that at the time of a wager for politics, this nation needs necessarily an independent process, considering the behaviour or strategy of some of us in the past and others, is to be considered, that is, we should be forced to counterpoise what he is doing, because that is not possible until now. But we want to build this country, build it, and build the building from it, which will always continue to be built up for the protection of the people's will. That's our way. And if we all behave loyally, each one of us will have to put his proposition on the table, and see if we can do something before this law is over. But we see the political project. And the axis or backbone of this political project may, of course, be the right of deciding in every area. But to say to me from the hands of the council, that it is all the same here to decide the future of a people, or to determine what kind of society I know not, you will have to explain, why nations, peoples, have a right to decide. And the rest may be inquired into the law of consulting, or the inquiries which may be included within a law of participation. Thus, and as you will be a new father, watch the deck, why you fine-skinned people will have a long life in politics, in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-09-24.u31	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Since the list of subjects is over, I end the whole meeting. It was 7 p.m. and thirty-two.
