ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I say before that the seventeenth has been left for another, and in the fourth place the nineteenth shall be seen, and in the place of the nineteenth, the fourth. First point in theme list: "The question is, that Joseba Egibarre Artola Eubertarians have made to the president for the recovery of employment and economy." Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u1	Good morning, everyone. Good day, presidents, chiefs and congressmen. In January 2014, a plan is to recover employment and economy, to time between 2014-2016, and now it's been over a year. It's been a year and we'd like to evacuate that year. In fact, the size in which the targets were placed. As for the rest, if it's the purpose of this plan to help you create new jobs or to increase the dynamization and to help you with the snobbishness and the innovation that the corporations need to compete... Those targets were there and we'd like to evacuate it. And since we're standing on the porch of this year 2015, these yearly activities and previsions for 2016. That's our curiosity. We think that society, at least in government niceties, ought to know these parts too, which belong to economical activity. We, as a group, see this evaluation necessary, and the prevention for the next year. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u2	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, good day to all of you, members of the legislature. In January 2014, the program was accepted and introduced. In order to be more modern and more consolidarian, more lasting and more competitive, the Jest Party and the Socialist Party signed a treaty. That's the scope program that's been given to the engagement by that word. More than rating, I'll report what I've done. The year before, many plans have invested 1.435 million euros. To make any use of companies, 620 million Euros are put on the shoulders. In the same way, 2200 new companies and autonomous workers have been pushed into creation. We've invested 376 million euros in the innovation, which is why 1,300 small, medium companies have developed research and development initiatives. As far as the operation is concerned, it's about to create 11,800 jobs. The framework programme was approved by the Government in January last year; it is part of the strategic planning for human development and sustainable growth of this legislature. The Government's nuclear objective is to boost employment and economic recovery through Strategy 4i (innovation, industrialization, internationalization and public investment). We have committed 6,475 million euros until 2016, with the commitment to encourage the creation of 32,000 jobs. This week we have completed the assessment of the first year. We note that investment has begun to bear fruit in terms of employment and economic dynamism. Last year EUR 1,435 million has been invested, EUR 600 million has been put at the disposal of companies, EUR 376 million has been allocated to innovation, and a total of 1,300 SMEs have developed R & D & i activities. In terms of employment, the creation of 11,800 jobs has been encouraged. We have achieved this through four axes: local and regional employment plans, incentives to recruit people with difficulties of integration, rehabilitation programmes in the construction sector, and programmes to support self-employment and the creation of SMEs. The 11,800 jobs created have helped to alleviate the negative effects of job destruction caused by the crisis. This programme continues with new measures to support enterprise and the implementation of employment plans. This year, EUR 1.7 billion will be implemented and 600 million guarantees will be made available to companies, we will allocate 258 million to the employment plan, and our forecast is to encourage the creation of 11,000 new jobs. Euskadi lives a moment of growth and confidence. Growing up does not mean getting out of the crisis, but it means moving in the right direction and opening up opportunities for job generation. It's going to be years' work, sustained policies and shared effort with companies. The creation of jobs, returning to the pre-crisis parameters, will be the result of our companies being competitive, technified, maintaining growth dynamics in international markets, and driving new economic sectors. Today, Euskadi is growing above 2% of GDP, the basis for sustained job creation. The role of the Government will continue to be to facilitate conditions, assist businesses and be exemplary in its public policies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors made to the Chief of Security, with the family of the House of Zan Cabacas, with Jonan Fernandez." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. The Cabacas has recently made a few public meetings or communications with the Security Department. Sometimes, in Jonan Fernand, the secretary to Peace and Company participated, as the family declared. Fernandez, it seems, begged them to lose hope of finding out who killed their son, because in such cases justice is very difficult. He told them that none of the widows of the edge had received justice, and begged them not to search for their enemies, for they are not in the right place. This attitude increased the suffering of the family, as they said. We think the message is serious. But we don't understand why Jonan Ferndez had any part in these meetings. Is it also a question of peace and partnership? That's the message he delivers to all the victims? We ask you for lights on that, Mrs. Beltrán de Heedia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u6	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. In reply, Mrs. Heeddia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Congressman, good morning. From the Government on this issue, the death of Iñigo Cabacas and the clarification of the circumstances of his death, we have always marked two priorities: on the one hand the judicial and political, for the clarification of the facts that caused the death of Iñigo, and therefore the absolute collaboration with the judicial investigation, but at the same time the human and ethical aspect of solidarity with the family, especially with the parents. Look, since I joined the office in December 2012, I have held several meetings with both parents and with the environment of Iñigo Cabacas, meetings that have always taken place in the field of personal relations, from discretion, in privacy, and always with the desire and willingness to approach and sympathize with reality, with their pain. I would have liked those meetings to have followed in this area, in the area of discretion, in the area of personal relations. But at the same time I have to tell you that I understand and accept that the parents of Iñigo Cabacas, Manu and Fina, criticize, value these meetings and even make demonstrations. They're in their perfect right. They do it from pain and from desolation, and I understand it because I understand their pain. That's why I can't accept what you're doing these days, Mr. Arzuaga. What brings to the clarification of the death of Iñigo Cabacas the pain, the use of the pain of the parents? What can be done to use pain as a bold weapon of criticism against the Government and against members of the Government, decontextualizing words of situations you do not know because you were not there? Being close to the family and expressing our solidarity, personal support, are initiatives that neither I personally nor any member of the Government will give up, as long as the parents of Iñigo Cabacas accept it and so will they. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u8	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u9	Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, I don't know the contents of that meeting unless it's from Manu and Fina's mouth, and that's why I'm asking you. You say you hold these meetings with discretion and privacy, but they have decided to make them public, surely because they could no longer. When passed on to the Cabacas family who are not going to get justice, the Department of Security and Jonan Fernandez himself do not act as impartial observers, they are not objective spectators who see a fact and who think about it, they are not neutral. The Basque Government, and the Department of Security, is ultimately responsible for the crime committed against Iñigo Cabacas, it is their responsibility, and I believe that before it, Jonan Fernandez takes an exculpatory role, if not to minimize precisely that crime committed against Iñigo Cabacas. When he asks the family of Iñigo Cabacas to resign and lose hope of receiving justice, Mr. Fernandez acts as a party agent, acting as a covert of the responsibilities of the Department of Security. When he asks you not to look for enemies, it also sounds threatening. You say that you act with discretion and privacy to alleviate the suffering of the family of Iñigo Cabacas, but I consider that they show very little sensitivity and very little humanity. Because it is not a mere question of words, it is also a question of facts. He tells us that he collaborates with justice; however, there are data that say exactly the opposite. The Basque Government is a party to the investigation of the case, and is not performing any actions, no proposals to clarify the facts. It is making no effort to keep the investigation going, when it is not hindering it. No empathy, no sensitivity, but also no performance and no effectiveness. You put me in front of you that I use, that I patrimonyize the suffering of the Cabacas family, and I tell you that it is not. I work honestly for truth and justice. I understand that only truth and justice will alleviate their suffering, and I also understand that they are increasingly far from this coming to a good end. Reflect on why the family does not find support in its Government to achieve truth and justice. Think about why you have these negative feelings towards you; negative feelings for your words, for your deeds and for your omissions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u10	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u11	You, Mr. Arzuaga, if you have evidence and arguments to criticize the investigation, you can make that criticism of the investigation. No one is going to deny him his right to criticism or denunciation, let alone any contribution he can make to justice and justice. No one's gonna deny it. But that's not the way he went on Monday with the press conference. It's not the way. He's using words and expressions that don't belong to him, I insist. He's demanding explanations for private conversations you weren't in. He asks me to explain what I don't have to explain. He is using words that are born out of the pain of tremendously distressed parents. For what? For what? You have no right to use private conversations because you were not present, because you did not participate. These are conversations you don't know about. Not you. You have just portrayed yourself in your own contradictions, Mr. Arzuaga. Look, there are two ways to increase the victims' pain. The first is to pass in front of them, pass by and ignore them. The second is to pry into his pain with the intention of using that pain for partisan purposes and electoral opportunity. Both forms are absolutely detestable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u12	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the Medical Department, Blanca Roncal Azanza Basque Sozialists, were made to be the head physician of the Medical Department, to serve as a special health service in Hosa. " Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u13	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, councillors, parliamentarians, good morning to all. I would like to begin by congratulating Mr. Counsellor on his new status as trade union leader. Apparently, you have measured when to call and when not to strike. But, of course, it needs to be measured that the strike is a right that resides in citizens, not in their rulers. And it is also necessary to recognize why we have arrived here, why we have reached that point of conflict that affects the services that citizens must receive, which is what a counselor should talk about, not about the time when a strike can or should be called. It is up to the adviser to explain to the citizens how he will make it possible now and in the future that health remains universal, free and of quality. Of course, that requires planning, management and agreement. And this Parliament has already guided you in the agreement. And I say well, oriented, because, as has already been explained on more than one occasion, what we do here are orientations. And I tell you that we have moved towards the agreement because on 30 October we agreed (parliamentary majority) that we wanted to continue to guarantee universal, equitable, free and quality health care for all Basque citizens. And we agreed that in order to achieve this, the Government must negotiate and agree at a sectoral table on human resources adequacy in Osakidetza. It should therefore increase the replacement rates for retirement, permanent disability or death to 100 %. It should also draw up an employment plan in Osakidetza to ensure generational relief, restore the spirit of agreement of the year 2000 of thirty-five hours and other employment promotion measures, and analyse situations of temporary employment, in order to transform into structural all the places that take as possible three years or more in that situation. I repeat that we decided that the Government should negotiate and agree, that they are not synonymous words, but complementary: the agreement is the result of the negotiation. In the light of that, we ask you what decisions you intend to take to comply with parliamentary agreements in order to improve the quality of health services.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. President, good morning to all of you. Mrs Roncal, you ask me what decisions we will take to comply with parliamentary agreements in order to improve the quality of health services, and I have to start by telling you that the quality of service offered by Osakidetza is beyond doubt. If you are a user of the service you know. Membership already guarantees the public and quality health service for all people. That's how it's been for the last 30 years and that's how it'll be from now on. The concrete decisions to comply with the parliamentary agreements to which you referred in reference to the 2014 transactional amendment are not being considered. If you review it, you'll see that it's been a long time since they've been fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u16	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u17	You should have announced to those who have called a strike who are already entitled to thirty-five hours a week, who are entitled to replacement, that you are going to make an OPE to replace all the places that have been lost due to retirements or disability or death... You should have announced that in the press and the callers themselves, and you should have moved it to the sectoral table. I'm sure there would have been an agreement. And, of course, he should have informed us that he had already complied with that. But far from that, you are having an absolutely reckless speech about public workers. He's talking about privileges. And I never hear you talk about the human resources that are needed to cover those public services with the quality and citizen requirement, or the conditions of those who offer and provide those services. I don't hear you talk about how those who educate our children, who watch our health, who watch for our safety, who attend to the needs that need it. On the other hand, I hear, in general to them, of the lack of will of agreement of you, of you and of the rest of your Government, because you do say speeches of will of agreement, and then don't let go of the phone to get in touch with anyone, and we saw that exactly yesterday. They lack strategic vision...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u19	Mrs Roncal, as you do not seem to remember, in the short time I have to brief you on the specific points of the compromise amendment. The first, with regard to human resources adequacy, when the Osakidetza text was adopted, had already offered at the sectoral table, among other measures, an OPE for 2014, an OPE for 2015, an extension of staff, and measures to increase interim appointments. Osakidetza and the Department of Health, then and now, bet on creating stable and quality jobs. The proof is that the forecast of places in the OPE is more than two thousand. We have come, and not without difficulty, to the roof that sets out the basic rules, something that you are perfectly aware of, as is the legal uncertainty that would characterize an offer of employment that exceeded the maximum legal allowable. As you know, on this subject I remind you that, with regard to the replacement rate, in 2009, as President of the Government of Spain, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, the State Budgets Act established that the total number of re-entry places for public sector staff would be equal to 30% of the replacement rate (the Socialist Party, Mrs Roncal). The following year, 2010, Mr Rodríguez Zapatero again lowered the replacement rate to 15% (the Socialist Party, Mrs Roncal). And in 2011 Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero again reduced it to 10%. As far as the development of an employment plan is concerned, Osakidetza, as you know, has had since 2014 a human resources management plan agreed and signed with the Euskadi Medical Union. With regard to the thirty-five-hour day and other employment measures, I must say that working hours are not a sectoral issue for Osakidetza. It must be general and for the administration as a whole. As for the wage freeze, you know that it is also a measure imposed by the basic legislation, and that you applied it from 2011. That's right, after lowering wages by 5% in 2010. Did you skip state regulations by paying the extra December 2012? Neither. Substitution coverage. In February, the Osakidatza Directorate presented an offer at the sectoral table. It is true that health care has special connotations and different to other services, but there is no administration, neither in Euskadi nor, I know, outside of it that replaces one hundred percent from day one. Of course, Osakidetza in all her history, when she has been ruled by us and by you, she has not done so either. Sixth and last point: Membership has made a study about temporary jobs. Look, for me yesterday's strike, I consider it a failure of our system. I wish we could agree, but have a little memory, eh! They didn't start yesterday, huh! I'm not going to read you the strike days again in your period. Mrs Roncal, parties that have held government responsibilities must take the decisions they made in their day, and not renege on them to draw electoral results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u20	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of Carmelus Barrio Barroja Popula Group to the head of the Medical Department as to the appeal to Osalist." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u21	Egun on. Good morning, Madam President, Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, advisers and advisers. Ladies and gentlemen, bad news. Yesterday and today, strike in Osakidetza, regardless of the incidence. The unions are concerned about their working conditions and salaries, the best in Spain according to you, counselor; the department is concerned about their budgets and their needs, and we are concerned about the users and patients of Osakidetza in this joke that they have mounted between trade unions and government for a long time. But patients suffer queues, delays, postponements, suspensions, lack of warnings, etc., etc., etc., for these two strike days. The trade unions with representation in Osakidetza convened it and developed it definitively on 23 and 24 days, in these two strike days caused by these discrepancies and differences existing in this legislature, which have, of course, since the previous one. On Monday 20 the two parties met at the sectoral table to decide the last offer of the management: another failure. That is, the pagans, the patients and the users of Osakidetza. Let that be very clear in this joke. We asked him... You have said that the strike is irresponsible, and we ask you: How do you assess the situation created in the Basque Health Service-Osakidetza in relation to the reasons given by the unions in this strike call? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u22	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. President, good morning again. Mr. Barrio, the truth is, I was hoping for another kind of question. If I had been listening to him, one of my children would have said "Postureo". From the Department of Health of the Basque Government, from the General Directorate and from the Human Resources Directorate of Osakidetza we have said on many occasions that we do not see justified the labor conflict that trade unions have been promoting for months in Euskadi, especially in the public sector, and that you, for the party to which you belong, should know that the situation in this area is not very different from that in others where you govern. We don't think it's reasonable that the unions have called it. The exercise ought to be the last act of proclamations. Unemployment should be the last resort in the face of a serious labour problem, which we understand is not being dealt with at this time. Trade unions try to confuse their own working conditions with the quality of service provided. But indicators of health, results, satisfaction, accessibility, treatment, facility comfort, etc. do not speak of a decline in the quality of health care provided. We are aware that the working day has been increased to 1,614 hours (if for you outside, we would have 1,650), and that the salaries of all the employees of the Administration are frozen (and also here the policies of the Government of Mariano Rajoy pursue this), but the working conditions and wages of Osakidetza are not bad; they are better than in most of the health services of the autonomous communities, and also better than in other sectors not dependent on the public administration. Even so, we work to try to agree with the unions, and we think that the union model has serious problems of disassociation with its workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u24	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Do I posture, counselor, to worry about patients and users of Osakidetza? It will be the responsibility, right?, of an opposition group that is precisely concerned about this. It seems that sometimes, by your tone... we are not surprised that they strike, by the tone, and difficulties in the negotiation, counselor. [[Berber]] Well, but after the last failure of the last negotiating table and the strike days, how do you face the current moment? Tell us for real. Don't mess with Mariano Rajoy or anything else. No, no. Let's worry about our health. How they face the risk of more strikes, more mobilizations, which will once again have the users affected. Let us remember the previous mobilizations, the strikes, the current ones, let us remember that even the donation of blood, of which we were witnesses, was stopped. I mean, that's serious, counselor, so let's see what attitude you and the unions have towards all of this. The unions have said that there have been several meetings, that their position has not changed (yours, that of Osakidetza)... Has yours, that of the trade unions, changed in any way? I don't know, tell us. I see that the Medical Union, Satse, UGT, Commissions, therefore, seem to have a more reasonable speech, more professional, even another disposition. She and LAB, in a bag. Out of the way, Mr. Counselor. Are you not capable, since you share nationalist ideology, affinities, of stopping a little that escalation of radicality in the discourse of ELA and LAB? Aren't you guys capable of it? Come on, there's a dissociation, I think (the incidence of the strike says so), a dissociation also sometimes (how do you rate it?) between trade unions and the Basque public health professionals themselves. We have to value that. Anyway, I was telling him about ELA and LAB and that radical nationalist discourse, but we have to compare. The representatives of ELA speaking of all this, disqualifying all this as a farce, as a pure and harsh blackmail ("It forces us to shout," said the representative of ELA). The other unions (Satse, UGT, Medical Union) speak more of wills of agreement, speak more of intention to improve and negotiate. I mean, what doesn't have to be is that the patients are...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u26	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Darpón, your word is to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u27	Yellow neighborhood, you, who is an intelligent man, will know how to separate when someone speaks to you from the heart, who is not angry. [[Berber]] The Basque Government, the Department of Health and Osakidetza should not and do not want to ignore the situation in which we are immersed in society as a whole. The economic situation in Euskadi is improving, it is a fact; although there is still a way to go, we can talk about recovery, about signs of recovery. The sure recovery that will bring with it improvements for the professionals of Osakidetza and the rest of the Basque public sector of Euskadi. At least that is the will of the Government. For the Department of Health and for Osakidetza professionals are our most valued value. Thanks to their work and commitment we are able to offer a quality public service, supported and highly valued by Basque society. However, we are not satisfied with the current situation, we believe that it is necessary to reach agreements to improve the working conditions of Osakidetza, and for this we have put on the table relevant proposals, Mr Barrio: public offer of employment, reactivation of professional development, agreement for the coverage of replacements, agreement on internal mobility, expansion of Osakidetza staff, improvements in the systems of transparency and control in temporary recruitment, etc. But it is true, it is true, that we have trade unions for which at the moment it seems that nothing is enough, and any proposal that does not go beyond recovering the working conditions of 2010, increasing wages and reducing working hours, seems that it is not going to be valued by the trade unions, even though it implies a real and effective improvement on the working conditions of thousands of workers. Two don't understand if one doesn't want to. You have no doubt that our will is of understanding, and we will be up to the last minute of this legislature trying to do so. Be sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u28	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Five point in theme list: "The question is, that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto, a member of the U.UPyD team, is to be written in public University of the euscal and the members of the community." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u29	Yes, thank you, President. [[Un poco de agua, por favor, para el señor Darpón, o una ankle, despues del esfuerzo realdo.]] Mr. lehendakari, Covite has filed a complaint against five ETA terrorist band activists who have recently been released from prison because they obtained prison benefits for conducting studies at the UPV. The complaint is based on the fact that they appear to have obtained their titles irregularly and, therefore, alleged documentary falsity is alleged. In particular, one of them took the university entrance exam ten years after starting his university studies. Two others completed their studies without a mandatory examination of access to higher education. Another studied a career without having passed the access exam for over twenty-five years of age. And in the latter case your file appears with a fake ID and a date of access exam for over twenty-five years of age faked. Covite's claim calls for the imposition of appropriate sentences for the crime of documentary falsity, in addition to the cancellation of the obtained degrees or university studies that have been fraudulently conducted. The application also requests a review of all executions carried out after the so-called Parot Doctrine, which allows for reductions in the sentence for conducting studies. Beyond what the Office of the Prosecutor determines about the complaint of the group of victims, it is interesting to know what the Basque Government thinks about this abnormal functioning of the UPV, since if its control mechanisms had functioned correctly, these irregularities would not have occurred. And these irregularities have occurred, there are data that prove this, and the consequences we are suffering now, in recent times: in recent weeks, in recent months, prisoners of ETA are coming out of the street as a result of having obtained prison benefits for these facts. It was therefore interesting to know the Government's views on the matter, and, finally, what it would be willing to support the Government in clarifying all that. It seems to me that it is a very serious issue, its consequences we are checking now; therefore, it is a topical issue. Finally, I also ask the Government directly whether it would support the fact that these facts could also be investigated politically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u30	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mrs. Uriart, who's a local representative, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u31	The President of the legislature, the President, the chief of the Department, the members of the legislature, good day. Mr Maneiro, the question you put to the Government today has only one justification, that of making noise and instilling suspicions in a pre-election period in which we find ourselves. In any case, I will answer you with three simple objective statements. First of all, neither the University of the Basque Country nor the Basque Government, which is in no way competent in this matter, have received any official notification in relation to the subject you raise. Secondly, the only information we have on this subject, apart from that disseminated by the media, is that published by Covite on its website. According to this information, the Collective of Victims of Terrorism has filed a criminal complaint against five levels, not against the University of the Basque Country or against this Government, for an alleged crime of documentary falsity that occurred around 2001. Therefore, Mr. Maneiro, we will have to see what the position of the court is. In the meantime, this Government has nothing else to say about it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u33	No, Counselor, the aim is not to make noise, but to denounce facts that have actually happened, to investigate, to know what has happened in the UPV for decades, whose consequences we are paying now. It is now when there are ETA prisoners who, as a result of fraudulent prison benefits, are going out on the street. The Basque Government therefore has much to say. This is an extremely important matter. You say the facts don't know them. I'll tell you about it. The complaint is against five ETA militants, five ETA express, but, counselor, the cases are tens, and you will know them shortly. Dozens of ETA prisoners who accessed prison benefits fraudulently, as a result of a strategy designed by not knowing exactly who, though we suppose, so that university degrees could be awarded from within the UPV. The matter is indeed far-reaching and is going to have to be dealt with, and we want it to have to be dealt with in this Parliament as well. I myself will therefore contact the democratic groups in this Parliament to try to set up a committee of inquiry to know exactly what has happened in the UPV. You're going to have very strong news very soon, counselor. It's a real scandal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u34	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u35	Mr Maneiro, as I told you at the end of my first intervention, we will have to wait to see what the court says. In any case, the University of the Basque Country makes an important effort to ensure the quality and safety of university studies for all students. On the specific subject that you bring to us today, I must say that the quality and safety of university studies carried out by inmates in prisons are now guaranteed by a protocol approved by the Governing Council of the University of the Basque Country on 28 October 2004 unanimously, ratified by the Constitutional Court's judgment 206/2011 and updated by the Governing Council of the University of the Basque Country on 18 July 2013, also unanimously. In conclusion, I'll answer with three clear ideas. First of all, we don't have any legal information about it. The Basque Country University hasn't got a complaint about this subject, much less, Euskelek, because there's no competition in this area. Secondly, this subject is very old. What you're talking about is a 14-year-old theme. I'm not going to go in now in 2005 for the future. The charge is present, and we must now see what is the decision of the tribunal. In any case, it seems to me a very disturbing and pathetic thing to try to stain the good picture of Euskal City University with things that happened 14 years ago, without any proof and no charges against UPV/EHU. And thirdly, things have changed a lot these 14 years. The Basque Country University has done a terrible job to ensure the quality and guarantee of the students' studies outside the past few years. It was a long fight. A protocol was made for this, a protocol the Constitutional Court gave him. Therefore, Mr Maneiro, I would ask you for greater rigour in your arguments, in order not to confuse the citizenry or harm the image of the University of the Basque Country, which is carrying out a magnificent work in this area. Be more rigorous in your statements, which seem to have nothing but a clear electoral end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Number of points in theme list: "Interpelation, made by the member of Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPyD team, of the model of state which the President defends for the whole of Spain." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u37	All right. Mr Lehendakari, a few days ago you pointed out in an interview that the legislature of Mariano Rajoy has been wasted on the concertation of the model of State, despite the fact that the People's Party, you said, "has had all the bases for an understanding of the model of State that includes the singularity of Catalonia and Euskadi." I think the phrase was exactly like that, literally. And I ask you again what I have asked you on several occasions in this Parliament: What is the model of state that you defend?, what is the model of state that the Basque Nationalist Party defends?, what is the model of state that the Basque Government defends? In what model of State would they feel comfortable, if they were comfortable in some model of State. What concrete reforms would you propose? What kind of state model are you proposing or supposedly defending? An asymmetric federal state, a confederation of those that do not exist anywhere in the world? What legal reforms would they propose? What would be the steps? What is the final scenario in which you would feel comfortable, if you would feel comfortable in some final scenario? With what other groups do you think it is feasible to agree to defend here or there that model of state, here in Euskadi or in the whole of Spain, that model of state? What implications would it have for Basque society? When are they going to pose it? It points to a model of State that includes the uniqueness of Euskadi. Is it not, today, treated in a singular way with respect to the other autonomous communities? How would that singularity have to be changed, where would it have to go? What else do you aspire to? When are they going to pose it? When are you going to start that process? Through what mechanisms? What supports do they count on? We need you to answer all these questions, and we also need to know what exactly you stand for and what the Basque Nationalist Party stands for. We need, and we are going to put it again, a debate on the issue, so that each parliamentary group gets wet and clearly positioned. Because indeed it seems to us a very interesting debate too; the debate on the model of state and the possible reform of the Spanish Constitution seems to us a very interesting debate, but it also seems to us very interesting and very necessary for each political party to position itself clearly instead of playing several bands, as the Basque Nationalist Party has usually and historically done. In other words, let us stop deceiving citizens, something the Basque Nationalist Party has done on too many occasions and historically. Let him speak clearly, exactly what he wants, for when he wants it, and how he intends to achieve that goal. During these two years of barren legislature ( yesterday we had a new example of the absolute incompetence of this government), you and you have been throwing ideas, albeit without realising anything, and sometimes posing different things. UPyD wants to know exactly what you and the Basque Government intend to do, what steps they intend to take, when, how and with whom, and whether they intend to respect or violate the current lawfulness, which is meridianly clear in relation to the fact that the future of Spain and its model of state must be decided by all Spanish citizens. You and you have recently claimed the right to self-determination. You and you raised at the time the holding of a referendum for 2015. You and you have spoken of the Basque nation in Europe, you have also spoken of Basque nationality, you have spoken of new status, you have in turn spoken of full compliance with the Statute. They have claimed the right to decide. They have also said that it is necessary to achieve independence, albeit without a date. They also talked about the Basque Republic. They have spoken of a new pact with the Crown, of political bilaterality, of historical rights. They have talked about the need to reform the Spanish Constitution, and they have also talked about reaching a new status without the need to reform the Spanish Constitution. They have spoken of achieving a true plurinational state. They have said at some point that the most important thing now is to overcome the crisis, and at the same time, or almost at the same time, they have said that the new status would help us get out of the crisis (i.e. in some cases practically divergent things). They have also mentioned that before reaching the new status we must close the black page of ETA. They talked about a national pact between Basques. That is, during all this time, in addition to not governing and not dealing with the essential problems of citizenship, as well as showing an absolute inability to pass laws or to solve the main problems of society, the fact is that they have been making divergent, unclear statements in some cases. They've been playing two bands. And we do want to know exactly what model of state you are defending and which the Basque Government is defending today. We are clear about the model of state we are defending. UPyD is clear about the state model it defends. It also seems clear that these gentlemen on my left want independence tomorrow, and better than tomorrow afternoon. The Socialist Party has proposed an asymmetric federal state, and the People's Party is rumored to be trying to agree with CiU or some Catalan force, in short, the possible configuration of a state that could grant some kind of privilege to Catalonia. Finally, let us say that there are some political parties that have positioned themselves, some in a clearer way than others, but it remains to be seen what the Basque Nationalist Party, and in particular you and the Basque Government, about what the model of state it defends today, what steps it intends to take to achieve it and, ultimately, on what model of state you or you would feel comfortable in. I think we need to stop fooling the citizenry, I think we need to speak clearly. It gives me the feeling that some, in fact, are independentists and others are nationalists, and above all they are nationalists who live on the tale of remaining nationalists, but who do not finish their proposals. Finally, to see if Mr Lehendakari can clarify all this, to know at least what exactly you think about this issue today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u38	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, you are indeed asking again, because this is exactly the same question that you asked me on 13 June 2014, and I have also answered this same question four times in this very full of control in reply to your questions. I have tried to explain to you repeatedly the concepts on which our model is based (our model, that of the Basque Nationalist Party), I have explained the working procedure, the new context of Europe, the new concept of agreement-agreement, and respect for democratic principles. And I am sure you remember that I have spoken about the working procedure: dialogue, negotiation, agreement or ratification. I have spoken, yes, of all the issues that you say we have said, in your context, Mr Maneiro, and because I believe, or have felt that you have been cut short, I tell you more than you have said we have said. I have spoken about the context of the new Europe, the construction from the ground up, the concept of subsidiarity, interdependence, shared sovereignty. I have talked about the aspiration to have a voice in Europe. I've been talking about the concept, as I told you, deal-agreement. Also from legitimate aspirations to grow as a nation, to have greater self-government and more sovereignty. I have talked about the need to have a system of guarantees, effective bilaterality, and respect for the Basque differential fact. I have also talked about democratic principles, respect for decisions taken by Parliament and ratified by means of a legal and agreed consultation. My concern, Mr Maneiro, is Basque, the institutional and political model based on Basque historical rights, understood as the constitution of the Basque states, from a respect for plurality and with a confederal conception, that model that you say does not exist anywhere in the world. We have it here, it's ours. This internal model is what it could propose for the State, based on the recognition and respect for its multi-nationality. I want you to understand that in reality the key is not the model of state that I consider appropriate for the whole of Spain. The key is the relationship that Euskadi must have with the model that Spain decides as most appropriate. Today we are assuming the need for a rethinking of the state model, you have said, given the evidence that the coffee formula for all has even failed. A model is being proposed that assumes the undeniable reality that different nations live together in the State. If not, that of the different nations, to what does the term "nationality" contained in the Constitution itself respond? The terms that we are putting forward, with realism, Mr Maneiro, and conscious of the context that we live in (the Basque Nationalist Party, aware of the context in which we live), are based on ensuring an effective bilateral relationship, which recognizes Euskadi with the highest levels of self-government, with its own voice in Europe and, very important, with guarantees of compliance. I mentioned in his question the result for Euskadi of the relationship with the current Government of Spain, and I want to begin by saying that I believe in my work as a lehendakari based on respect and institutional collaboration, I believe in the pact, and I believe in the political agreement. It is clear, however, that, due to the lack of commitment by the Spanish Government, this has been a lost legislature for the Basque self-government; not only for its updating and progress, but also for strict compliance with the Statute of Gernika, which is an organic law, Mr Maneiro. The model I want begins with a state committed to fulfilling and respecting the Basque self-government, when it has also been expressly ratified by the majority will of the Basque people. The Spanish Government does not comply today. Important statutory powers remain to be transferred to Euskadi; this Parliament itself has noted and affirmed this. Key transfers remain to be made to plan for the future and improve well-being: the management of the social security economic regime, airports, concessional motorways, railway services and infrastructure, ports, or prisons, to say the least. It is not that we aspire to manage these matters, Mr Maneiro. No, no, It's just that we should already be managing them by law. There has not been a single statutory advance since 2011. You ask me about the model of State, about the position of the Government with regard to the model of State. Well, well, we want a state to comply. We want a model that guarantees the capacity of Euskadi, which we do not constantly look to the courts to avoid laws that invade our competence as a self-government. In this legislature we have had to go to the courts to defend the capacity of Euskadi, sometimes with the commission of this Parliament: thirteen unconstitutionality appeals lodged, four positive conflicts of jurisdiction lodged, four conflicts in the contentious-administrative jurisdiction but of jurisdictional significance. We want a model of state that guarantees compliance with the political pacts and complies with them. As I said at first, I have several times tried to inform you of our example. I've told you several times that our project is written and I'll read it to you again today. He accepts the commitment to the development of political action: "The guide which society has placed in our hands demands a careful and flexible method, clear criteria, prudence, and modesty. it requires us to begin, by presenting our own design, and helping us to unite ours with the designs of others, by the concurrence of the members of society. That's what we wrote. Why did we start on this road? This also is evident from the point of view: "Ours is a modern society, which plunges itself into more extensive and more extensive regions. In this circle, it is necessary that the peace and the agreement of life should be sought for, in order that the society of the euscal society may have the opportunity of deciding its political and social status. By means of the usual forms of democracy, it is necessary to open and attain a modern compact, which is respected by society of euscal. At the same time, the above fact of the nations that surrounds us, and the better future, the accord of the international relations we are to cultivate together." It's written, Mr. Maneiro. We therefore want an agreement-agreement. On the basis of an internal agreement, we propose a new pact with the State, and we want it to be implemented. That's the way it's written. We are aware that Basque society demands a special exercise of responsibility and flexibility, because we have been immersed in a deep dispute for too long, a political dispute that has been fuelling in a majority of our society a deep collective dissatisfaction to which we must give a way out. Society calls for a solution for today's Euskadi, for the Basque nation of the twenty-first century; an open agreement that includes the formulas of respect for the will of Basque society expressed by the mechanisms of advanced democracies, and that at the same time understands the supranational realities that surround us and with which we must interrelate in order to build a better future in solidarity. Our judgements are also written, with all transparency, and the commitment to use only political and democratic paths. Even the commitment to respect the people's wishes. It is also necessary that all political projects should be solved in the legislation, and that respect for multiplicity should be paid to them. This is Mr. Maniro, our criteria. They're written and I've been introduced to you over and over again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u41	Yes, thank you very much, lehendakari. Indeed, the last time I asked him about this matter was a year ago, a question that led us to register a motion for each political group to position itself in this House in relation to the model of state he defends. Because it does seem to us to be a very important issue. And it seems very important to us that the Basque Nationalist Party should be clearly positioned and say exactly what it wants and how it will intend to achieve those objectives. Legitimate objectives in any case, provided that, logically, the existing legality is respected. That's why, anyway, there wouldn't be any problem. But when you talk about respect I have to remind you that respect above all is due to the current legality, and any changes that you want to make in relation to the model of state, or internally in Euskadi, must be made through the established legal procedures. And that's what I want to remind you here today, too, that this cannot be forgotten. It must therefore be remembered that, among other issues, the right to decide in relation to the model of State belongs to all Spanish citizens. I don't know if you accept this or if you're planning to skip it. Indeed, a year ago we discussed that UPyD motion in relation to the model of state, and I recall that the Basque Nationalist Party did not register any full amendments to that motion, apparently because the deadline was exceeded. I believe this is the first time, in six and a half years' time in this Parliament, that the Basque Nationalist Party is being given the time to table an amendment in its entirety in relation to a parliamentary proposal. I hope that when we register this motion the Basque Nationalist Party will present its amendment, and explain in this House exactly what it is defending and how it intends to achieve it. The important thing for me, in any case, Mr Lehendakari, is for all political parties and all institutional representatives to speak clearly and explain to the public exactly what we want. And you've been saying different things lately. They said at the time that the important thing was to get out of the crisis, to get out of the crisis trying to propose a new pact between Basques, and then they also said that a new pact between Basques or a new status would facilitate the exit from the crisis. You spoke at a certain time of a Basque republic, and then defended the possibility of a new state with the Crown. Finally, I say that these are contradictions that I see permanently in this government, in you and in the Basque Nationalist Party. And I believe that what political parties have to do is to position themselves clearly on what exactly they want. Let them tell the truth to the citizen, not only rhetorical phrases or general ideas about the scenario that is intended to be reached with the passage of time, but exactly what is wanted and for when, and, very important, with whom. By whom you will be accompanied, with what support do you count on to try to defend that new model of State or that new political pact between Basques. To whom do you look to reach that new covenant, what characteristics that new covenant would have, in what would benefit society that new covenant, this is what I think you have to explain. I say, the model of state is certainly an interesting debate, and we are going to bring it back to this House. It seems to me that this re-thinking of a state model is taking place and is on the agendas of the various political parties, but obviously there are different opinions, Mr Lehendakari. That is, it does not seem that all political parties think like the Basque Nationalist Party. There are some who think very differently, and therefore you will have to acknowledge that you may be in a minority, and therefore you will have to accept what is decided in relation to that reform of the Spanish Constitution. And in any case what I want to say to you, Mr Lehendakari, is that do not forget that you have to comply with the law in force, you have to comply with the legal procedures established to change the law in force. It should be perfectly clear. That is democracy, that is the first condition that any Democrat must fulfil: any change he wants to make, through the established legal procedures. And above all, Mr Lehendakari, to tell the truth to people, not to say one thing at a certain time, to say the opposite at another time, to say one thing in the Aberri Eguna, or to say something different in this Parliament. Clarity is what society wants.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u42	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u43	Mr Maneiro, in a previous question we have also had to re-emphasize something that I believe is obvious in the answers to certain questions, when the references made in the questions are decontextualized. Let us contextualize everything we say, even in our own questions. You have raised the position in relation to the state model, you have raised the position of the Basque Nationalist Party, you have raised respect for the current legality. I have not heard anything about the legality in force as an organic law which is the Gernika Statute of Autonomy, and about its compliance with its integrity, even in the provisions for its possibility of deepening and progress. You're talking about registering a motion. Why, instead of registering motions and coming to full control of the Basque Government, do you not submit to the exercise of the self-government presentation, once you diagnose the development of self-government, and present your initiatives there, in the self-government presentation? Instead of coming here to the full of control to announce that he is going to present motions for us to retract, when we are already portrayed with everything we have written. And you too are portrayed, Mr. Maneiro. Look, I am very clear that I reject a model of state that denies the rights of Euskadi. And he asks me, "Who are you looking at?". Well, it makes it hard for me to look at you and UPyD, it makes it politically difficult for me to look at you and UPyD, when you deny the historical rights of the Basque people. I cannot accept models committed to suppressing and even cutting down, little by little, Euskadi's political and self-government capacity. I cannot accept models that propose to end the economic concert, a key piece of Basque self-government, essential for guaranteeing public services and the quality of life of citizens. I owe myself to Euskadi, and I will always defend Euskadi's interests. That is why I defend the economic concert and that is why I also propose the extension of the model to what is a political concert. The collective challenge of this society is to achieve a new framework of relations with the State from recognition and respect for the Basque differential fact. You have found this differential choice after election since 1978. What you can't do is deny this reality. Who's in the minority, Mr. Maneiro? The Basque question exists, and it is up to us in this House to try to agree on a political solution. Don't look for contradictions. One thing is my wishes and aspirations, another is my duty as a lehendakari to try, from the beginning of realism – and I stress this – to improve Basque self-government in response to a majority demand of society. One thing is my wishes and aspirations, and another is the acceptance of a plurinational State that respects the agreements adopted by Basque society. And this is the essence of our proposal, or of the compromise proposal. I am perfectly aware of my institutional responsibility as lehendakari. We have an opportunity that we have not had before to articulate a new political agreement for the future. Our approach, Mr Maneiro, is transparent, it is written and I repeat: our aim is to reach an agreement on political normalisation that defines a model of coexistence, as well as a framework of relations with the State in which, with greater self-government (i.e. more sovereignty), effective bilaterality and conditions of loyalty are guaranteed. This coexistence agreement is necessary in Euskadi, and I personally believe that it is also possible. I can assure you that I will continue to do everything in my power to achieve it. All but deny the evidence of reality and renounce this opportunity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Queer lópez de Muninuza EH Collector's parliamentary members made to the president, and then set up a job fraud and then continue to be the director of a public entity." Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u45	Yes, thank you. As far as the subject is clear, does the chairman of the Public Administration and Justice think it acceptable to be the director of a public entity who has committed fraud?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u46	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munin. In reply, Mr. Erkorek who's a member of the team has a word to say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Lopez de Munain jauna, I must sincerely thank you for your consideration of my person who supposes to erect me little less than in a kind of global, universal ethical lighthouse, with infallible criteria regarding all kinds of public positions in all public administrations. Because you ask me about a person who performs public responsibility functions in a public society outside Bizkaia (about Gipuzkoa you don't ask me, do you?), a society that has no relationship whatsoever, absolutely no relationship with the Basque Government, right? Therefore, there is little I can say in that regard. I can do a theoretical exercise; I can tell you that, if that person were subject to the Code of Ethics formally approved by this government – an exercise, I insist, purely theoretical, because it is not subject to it – in principle he could, in my opinion – not that of the Ethics Commission, to which I do not supplant here or anywhere – he could continue perfectly exercising his functions, because he is a person who, as far as I know, is neither charged nor prosecuted, nor has been sued or denounced. And in the procedure to which you also refer you have not even been summoned to testify as a witness, because it was a procedure that was neither criminal. It was a labour procedure, which was dealt with before social jurisdiction. This is what I can tell you about a question that concerns me very tangentially. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u48	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u49	I obviously care, and your opinion seems very valid to me. More than anything because you also think of things in which in theory you should not have – in your opinion – previously. But I would like to open the focus a little bit, because if we open the focus of what has been the management of this person when he has fulfilled his responsibility, in this case in EITB, we can see several things, several important things, I think, in order to be able to say if a person who has at least been pointed with his finger and has also been accused of having made illegal assignment of workers when he was EITB manager, through the company M4F. I think it is important, and it is important to know and, above all, with this extension of the focus, to see what has happened, and what has happened in EITB. You'd have to remember, and to be honest, that he was tried... There was a case that has been dismissed, for which he was tried to be accused of misappropriation of public revenues and corporate crimes. And, beyond the fact that you could not be charged with those crimes, you will agree with me that the expense you incurred in your mismanagement for EITB was considerable. And that does concern this government, since this government had to pay 700,000 euros for the management of this person, for the mismanagement of this person. Subsequently, and as one of the managers of M4F and Vilau Media, it would be necessary to remember the labour problems of these two companies, which at least one of them is already in competition with creditors and the other was also tried and is in ERE. But it is that the connections between these two companies are quite interesting, because, while the workers of M4F supported an ERE on their backs, the managers of Vilau Media went to work in M4F. That is to say, when the wage cost of the workers was cut, the managers of Vilau Media, a company created under EITB, both of them, became part of the other company. And Vilau Media, coincidences of life, should also be remembered, is a company that is imputed in the Hiriko case, and for something that is quite interesting: for having collected without doing his job, or any job. Therefore, if we take into account that this company has already cost the public coffers 700,000 euros, that it is charged for having collected public money without having done any work, and that the person to whom we are referring, Juan Diego, was one of the responsible, the question I believe has all the intention and is absolutely valid. Do such a person, do you believe, within his or her ethical code, of his or her assessment, that he or she may be a director or manager of any public entity? We are clear that no, even if it is not because he has been accused or not. A person who has cost the public coffers 700,000 euros, who has been pointed out with his finger for having made illegal transfer of workers, can he be managing, can he be running a public entity? If you think so, the problem with the Code of Ethics surely we will not have the rest; the problem with the Code of Ethics you have, that yours do not apply the Code of Ethics, because the only thing that is ethical for you is that, being a person of the Basque Nationalist Party, everything goes well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u50	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Munain, we must not have much difference in criteria, if you are consistent with the political formation to which you belong. Because, look, two months ago at the Bizkaia General Councils, which are the ones that control the institutions that you want to focus your attention on right now, they discussed this particular issue, and Irune Soto, who is the spokesperson for your group there, held exactly the same view. He said that until there was at least one charge it was not appropriate to take any action in relation to any public office. Exactly the same criteria. She went beyond that. This was not then agreed upon; it was agreed in General Meetings that no action should be taken until the opening of the oral trial. Therefore, the criterion should be exactly the same, independent of the affiliation of persons. There is also another consideration that needs to be taken into account. There is a certain halo of suspicion that you intend to project about the employment management of EITB, of the entity, during the first decade of the 21st century, but there is a data that openly contrasts with that claim, and that is that the employment management of EITB during that period was widely agreed with the entire union representation. I think you know this. During the years 1999-2009, twenty-seven collective agreements were signed for the three companies of the entity, which signed all trade union organizations represented there, including LAB. And the agreements signed have been unanimously endorsed by the board of directors, with the participation and vote in favour of political formations that are part of their coalition at this time. Therefore, neither the criteria are so different, objectively analyzed, beyond the affiliations of each other, nor does it seem that there is fundamental reproach here, when what was carried out is a management of staff agreed to to its last end with the union representation and with the board of directors. I cannot tell you much more about this, because my area of responsibility is confined to the Government and you, I insist, are talking to me about a person who develops his management in another institution, and I am not that beacon of universal projection to make ethical approaches in relation to all positions in the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u52	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The eighth point in the subject list: "The question is that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-the member of the U.UPyD team had made to the president about the personalization of the City Projects for damages." - No, no, no, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u53	Thank you, President. Mr Lehendakari, Counsellor, I do not know exactly who will answer, but the question is obvious. Last week this Parliament approved a UPyD initiative in relation to Hiriko and what the Basque Parliament should do in relation to the open judicial case against the promoters of this project, some of them linked to the Basque Nationalist Party. In particular, this Parliament urged the Basque Government to act as an injured person in the complaint lodged by the Provincial Prosecutor's Office of Álava before the Court of Instruction No. 3 of Vitoria against promoters of the failed Hiriko project. We would therefore like to ask the whole of the Government whether the Basque Government is going to fulfil this parliamentary mandate, and whether it is therefore going to act as injured in the case opened in the Vitoria courts. I mean, the parliamentary mandate has been virtually unanimous. With the exception of the Basque Nationalist Party, the entire parliamentary arch supported this UPyD initiative. It is clear what the Government's response has to be. In my opinion, you must announce that you have finally decided to appear as an injured person in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u54	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments and congressmen, good morning. Mr. Maneiro, I don't even know what you're asking me for, if you've answered yourself. In any case, for this government I represent, which has as one of its fundamental principles of course the utmost respect for this Parliament, there is no other answer to your question than to say that we are going to fulfil the parliamentary mandate. There is, therefore, no doubt about us; a great respect for this Groundman. And so we will obey our decision and our command. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Maneiro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u57	Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u58	9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary laws of the Belénburdo Underground to collect the members of the People's Administration and Justice, as to the prerogative of the law of the Public Empire." Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u59	Good morning, everyone. I think it's over on April 16th. So he intends to regulate the rights of 13,3,000 workers, tasks, and properties of Araba, Biscay, and Gipuzian public administration. It is obvious that the legislation has been rejected by all the unions in the public function. In their opinion, the project is lost, and is in the wrong direction. In this context, it is necessary that the legislature should remember this matter in the monographic discussion of November 7, 2014. That's why we ask you: Whether or not he intends to fill the plug on the day, in the monographic discussion I spoke of, the Parliament agreed to the resolution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mr. Erkokek, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. You ask me, Madame Arrival, for the priority of the law of public employment, and this government believes, that it must be the principal end of public employment to secure the stability and efficiency of the public function. But not only for fun, but it's probably the same purpose as the syndicate representatives, that the public function should be stable and effective at the same time. You say that negotiation is concluded. It's not like that. The table may not be collected again, but the negotiation will not be exhausted at the table. The same week, the two unions sent us the same numbers of demands, and we continue to examine them. So negotiations are not over. You also say that all unions rejected the bill. Well, if we continue to negotiate, we can't really refuse, as you say. It's true that some union isn't all the same in this respect, rejected four, five months ago. He refused to negotiate De facto, because he did not sit down at a table. One. But the others still do. And between them two of them, they've still done some fat business cards this week, and the negotiations are still open. So that's what that tramite will do until he's exhausted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u62	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u63	I'm glad to hear that the negotiation is going on, or that it stays. That's not the news we had, not the one we were talking about in the media. The whole thing is, after five months of this assembly, that the negotiations table had been concluded by the deputy director. Yes, he opened a deadline, a week ago, for borrowing. If you mean it, I don't think it's enough, but if the negotiations remain open and that's the case, it's a relief. But it's true, even if you say so, when all the unions say that all the people have given an opinion contrary to each other. And I will give you a few examples of what one has said, and I am speaking of the four principal unions: "He has not made a single change of reason," they say. Instead of encouraging a public service to the people, it gives precedence to the party control. "He denies the right to collective business, and leaves it in the hands of the administration to decide the conditions of work." "He is subject to the fundamental law of the State," etc., etc. It is not time for us to enter into the substance today, we have come to speak or ask about something else. Whether this law, before it has been brought here, will be made to agree with the synthesis of the laws; whether it will be fulfilled here in the legislature. And what was said was: "The assembly asks the General to create and restore the following two priorities in the process of evading public employment: that the print of the law should be the result of reflections and agreement between the unional and institutional operators, on the one hand, and on the other that the conditions of the workers should not be committed by one side, that is, to secure a collective negotiation." And from our point of view, we want to add that what you're asked for is essential. It is essential that this law, the law of public employment, should be agreed with those who work there. As it is essential that this law of public employment should be reduced to reality and necessity here, and not again to be a copy of the law prescribed in Madrid. And that's why, I repeat, we're asking you to do it again, because from our point of view it's not possible, to get ahead of us, like a law like that, as we said, without the consent of the workers. And that's it: Are you sure you're gonna get this promised? Is he gonna bring the law along with the union agencies?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Arrival, you have brought in a decision made by this legislature, but then, when you have read it, and to draw its consequences, you have changed the contents, because as far as the agreement I read, it speaks in terms of negotiation, and there is a long negotiation, deep. The board has been assembled four times, more than 500 delegations have entered, hundreds of changes have been changed in the initial text, hundreds of changes. The meeting was more than 14, except for a union, because that union left itself out of the start and said he wouldn't negotiate, he didn't negotiate. You ask for your consent, and you must agree with everything, as it seems to you. I don't know whether there are many such instances in history, but it'll be difficult to get an agreement with the union that has left itself out of business from the start. We're still working with the others. This same week, as I said, business is still coming, and that's what we're going to do. It's done and we'll keep doing it. As I have said, it may also be proved, by examining the procedure, that changes have been real in the original text, made by the consent of the unions. We'll see what the consequences are. But the will of this government, at this moment, is to continue to negotiate, as much as possible, as we can, the most advanced, and the most acceptable to be brought here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u66	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interpology, Vicente Reyes Martin's Sozialists, members of the team, made to the head of economics and contestations, about the short engagement of the Euloquis with I+G+b." Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Counselor, it should not be necessary for me to present this inquiry today. because you and the lehendakari regularly declare that R+D+i is the guarantee of the future of the Basque industry, an essential element for competitiveness, for internationalisation; having high-value-added technological products is essential... Anyway, what am I gonna tell you, everybody agrees. But it turns out the facts contradict his words, and that's why I'm here. The reality is that Confebask, the agents of the Basque Science and Technology Network, are calling for this government to commit itself sufficiently to R & D, because the situation is difficult, and the government speaks assiduously but does not guarantee the future. By describing the current situation, spending on R & D+i has decreased throughout this legislature, and that is a fact. The case is that over the past 20 years, Euskadi has always increased R & D spending on GDP, and this government has broken that trend. The previous government, in the worst years of the crisis and with a very low budget, reached 2.06 % in 2012, placing Euskadi for the first time above the European average in R & D+i expenditure relative to GDP. Expenditure in 2013 was again below the EU average, below 2% of GDP, remaining in 2014, at 1,93 % last year. That is why we are increasingly far from the leading countries, with which we need to compete. It's not that it's a desirable goal; it's that we need to compete with them, and we're getting further and further because we don't devote enough resources. We are far from Germany, with a 2.94, from Sweden, with a 3.21, but much more of the most advanced regions of Europe, where the difference is enormous. On the other hand, also the President of Confebask, as I told him on another occasion, warned a few months ago that this legislature is the first time that companies themselves reduce their investment in R & D+i, and that this factor, together with others related to the crisis, leads us "in a direction that does not guarantee the necessary support for the economic model on which we want to base our economic and development future". This is the reality, counselor, and with this panorama the Basque Government has approved a new Science, Technology and Innovation Plan to walk until 2020. A plan with which a great effort would have to be made, first to recover the level of investment of 2012, and then to move forward. This is also what the President of Confebask was referring to. He said: "To advocate for a high-value-added economy, and as a basis for it, for a technologically advanced, innovative and competitive industry that is able to push our growth, progress and employment, requires a redoubled effort in many areas, but especially in R & D." That is why I say that we could hope that in the new Science, Technology and Innovation Plan the Government would commit the necessary funding to achieve that, but it does not. By making some notes that illustrate this, I will tell you that a fundamental element of any plan is the indicator of expenditure on GDP, in general the economic indicators, of economic objective. Well, the GDP expenditure indicator is not in this plan. It's gone. It is the first time that a plan does not have an objective that is also a common reference for measuring the intensity of the planned effort and for contrasting what has been achieved. It's gone. This is true of the fact that it allows the government to avoid picturing that the government's target for 2020 is 2.5% of GDP, when the European target is 3%. That is, we are setting ourselves the target for 2020 (we, the government, which has approved the plan), is putting the target for 2020 far below 0.5 points below the European average target. We're giving up competing at the exit point. It is not that we are making it reasonable to reach the European average; it is that we move away as a starting point. In fact, we should increase the funds to meet that 3%, which would mean that between the public and private financing of R & D funding in 2020, EUR 280 million more than we are expected to have. That's just to get to the European average. And we are far from that commitment. How will we then compete with the most advanced regions internationally, with our products? We need strong technological development, and a lot of innovation, to compete internationally. And this plan, which has been advertised as a bowl and dish and whose essence is constantly claimed to be the paradigm of what should be support for technological development, that is, support for R & D+i, turns out to be made, as a real objective that is hidden, far below the European Union's expenditure on R & D. Look, the lehendakari said this morning that returning to the pre-crisis situation means that our companies are competitive, and that is not guaranteed by the plan they have just approved. And it is that every day there are contradictions between what the Government says and what it puts on the table to make possible what it says is important. And the point is that we are not worse, we are investigating worse, when I am talking about this difference with advanced regions or with the European average. We are equally efficient in general terms. The problem is that regions that are equally efficient in the use of funds double or more in investment than GDP. So, counselor, it's either a country bet or it's not. Because you can put the excuses you want, but the reality is that you invest less in this issue. In fact, you don't consider R & D as a priority, and you camouflage the data in this plan because paper can handle everything. They basically referred to the financing of the PCTI in two respects. On the one hand they state that the contribution of private sector companies must be greater by 2020, and on the other they say that more money will come from Europe. Funding is mainly based on these two pillars, because the Basque Government does not, which reduces its contribution. But how companies are going to contribute more money, that's not known. We start from the idea that the economy is at a time of exit from the crisis but still weak. I have heard you argue that that will allow for a hike and that will help companies to invest more. But, look, Elkargi's leaders said before yesterday that the real economy, that of families and businesses, especially small and medium-sized ones, is far from seeing the light, and that there is not yet a clear improvement in business expectations in the short and medium term, because what is certain is that the debt of companies is not going to disappear alone. Business managers are saying that over the next few years companies will have to clean up the balance sheets and that the investment will take time to arrive. This happens especially with SMEs, 26% of our business fabric. And since R & D spending is investment, how are companies going to increase investment, if they are getting better, even if there is a slight economic growth? There is something that does not fit into this balance sheet, in these calculations, especially if we consider that the money from the Basque Government's calls attracts private money. Moreover, part of private funding is actually public, it comes from government funds. Companies, with the grant and what they put in, hire a project from a technology center to other people. It's not just their money they put in. So with the public investment that you anticipate, the numbers don't come out for the private investment that you also announce. And as for the government's R & D effort, it is transferred to the Horizon 2020 programme, to European funds, but it turns out that so far we have raised European funds above our weight in European GDP, and the agents themselves say that we are on the edge, that it is very difficult to attract more, because we have to make alliances with other countries, travel, make big corporations, a lot of spending... That's difficult, companies that are doing so far no longer have the capacity, and SMEs don't dare in general. How will we then be able to increase the flow of European funds for R & D? In short, it is materially impossible to fulfill the scenario proposed by the PCTI, which I believe will lead us to a new descent...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u68	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. In reply, Mrs. Tapia, the Lobby Boy, is in the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning again, everybody. Mr Reyes, we are probably going to have a very similar debate to that we have had in other committees. But, well, remembering that as a government, and as my purpose as a councillor, it is to consolidate Euskadi as a country of reference in the field of R & D (also as is yours, of course). For this purpose we have been working on different lines, not only this Government, but over the past decades, and particularly intensively in this legislature, trying to make this system the best possible. Having said that, I will try to explain again, although I do not start from scratch, because you know him well, but we will not tire of explaining what we have done and why we have done it. Euskadi has been characterised for many years by its commitment to R & D+i, and not only economic, but also by the fact that there is a well-organised network in our environment, well present in Europe, which meets the needs of our companies, because that is the main objective. In this way, we have succeeded in ensuring that our economic sector, especially the industrial sector, offers greater strength, greater added value in the products it is currently producing, and that it is more competitive. We have, he said, equipped ourselves with a Basque network of science, technology and recognized innovation, but, while recognized and rich, it is also complex. In this context, since as a country we have always been self-demanding with ourselves, when we arrived at the government we stopped to analyze a report that had been commissioned by the previous government, which had been carried out and delivered at the end of 2012, of a European expert working for the Commission, as you certainly know, Mr Kevin Morgan, professor of a British university, who, in addition to knowing well the architecture of the system, its potential value and the trajectory that he has carried out during these years, pointed out an important aspect of improvement. Because, of course, these reports are responsible not only for analysing the situation, but for looking at points of possible improvement. And I came to say that everything inverted, economically and not economically, well inverted is and has yielded results, but that the efficiency and effectiveness of our system could and should be improved. And that's what we're up to. We have put our hands into the work to perfect the system, which, as you well know, has been well cared for over the last few years by public and private agents (which I do not forget about them, because they have also made a very important effort), but to make this change it was of course necessary criterion, but also a little courage, both political, for our part, as well as courage on the part of the agents who undertook that change. What have we done and still do? First, set the priorities for our smart specialisation strategy, the so-called RIS3, and also adopt a new science, technology and innovation plan until 2020. By the way, by unanimity of all the actors present, not only as a government proposal. All agents are the three outlaws besides the government, as you well know, the three universities that we have in this country, and also agents of innovation and technology, such as the two platforms, but also business agents. And for this we agreed, according to a realistic forecast at the end of 2014, that up to 2020 would be invested among all 11 billion euros. Why do I tell you realistic forecast? Because, as you well know, the previous plan for science, technology and innovation, which was also unanimously adopted – as everyone has been, on the other hand – provided for a series of investments that, given the crisis situation, was impossible to achieve. Therefore – and we have also commented on it on more than one occasion and you have reiterated it here – it is true that these 11 billion can become more if the situation improves, as is expected to be improving. Another thing is that at that time, December 2014, when this plan is approved, the realistic forecast leads us to be cautious and to say that those are the millions that we will be able to invest among all, as you said, public and private. And what we intend to do is that, at certain times – and you have also mentioned it well – it is considered private, that which in part is a public fund, really the private also make that important effort. And we know that the effort they have to make is very important, that they have to change their actions, but so does the European Union, and perhaps those agents who are investing much more in other places with which we are comparing themselves do that in a different way than we do. But, well, from here on, what we want is to focus the activity of our Basque Network of Science, Technology and Innovation on the three areas that have been defined as priorities (advanced manufacturing, energy and biosciences with a focus on health), focusing resources where we have more capabilities, and trying to diversify products and services where we have more knowledge. Secondly – something that the report also said – we have started to rearrange, adapt or how we want to use the word, with the involvement of all the agents, the Basque Network of Science, Technology and Innovation. For what? In order to better adapt it and respond to the new socio-economic challenges of Euskadi, but also to focus these efforts and make our network well understood and well understood and comparable with the rest of the Europeans. Because all European networks, the whole innovation system, are not only measured in economic parameters of GDP, which also has twenty-four more indicators, and we have to be able to compare ourselves in the twenty-five, complete. Two years of intense work, but that has given rise to the adoption of the decree that will regulate the new functioning of the whole system. Thirdly, we have reviewed and improved funding programmes that specifically focused on improving efficiency, which was another aspect cited in that report. Because it is useless to focus the activity of our agents if we are not able to properly implement them in terms of their support in terms of public calls. For this reason, the new calls for 2015 for the Etorgai and Gaitek programmes respond to this new approach of raising the level of specialization and strengthening the capacity to develop collaborative research. Because, if we are saying that we need to gain competitiveness, also all those entities that you are talking about, both Confebask and for example Elkargi, refer to that size, dimension, are important to be able to compete, and through these programs we also want that collaboration to help to compete. Finally, we have established an integrated system for monitoring and monitoring the impact of programmes. Until now, follow-up at the time of the presentation and in the follow-up of the objectives had been done – and I think it is appropriate to do so – and now we are going to measure or measure the impact of these programmes after they have been completed and at two years, three, four..., what impact they have had on employment development, on new programmes, on new products, on new resources for the company. What an impact these programmes have had, because of course what is not measured does not improve. And we've designed a system that's going to analyze where we're investing, how we're doing it, what impact we're getting, so we can refuel the system with improvements. The origin of this measurement lies in the criteria set out in the calls we have put in place, and of course these four major actions, I insist, to define a strategy, improve the network, improve our programmes and measure the impact, we understand that they are something relevant that will accompany all the resources that we have to put in place among all. I am therefore referring to the efforts made by this Government to position our R & D & I at European level, of course, and to the commitment to maintain R & D investment in Euskadi. It is a pulse that we must bear among all the institutions; not only the Basque Government, all the public institutions, but also the private ones. We are incorporating new levels of demand, it is true. For that, we have our instruments much better adapted and better prepared. And as far as technology programs are concerned, and you know it well, throughout this 2015 all calls have increased by 7%. It is a new architecture of programs that we will gradually go modulating and adapting to the needs, with results-oriented criteria, to what the company requires, to what we are demanding. And, of course, it is important that public investment, as you say, stimulates and catalyzes private investment, but that private investment is truly private investment and the involvement of our companies. And we know the difficulties, but we all suffer them, the public and the private. And this commitment is a joint one, and this has been achieved throughout the process of developing the Science, Technology and Innovation Plan. We know that reviewing our entire system requires a major change in our behavior, but, as Albert Einstein said, "If you want different results, don't do the same." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u71	Indeed, counselor, if you want different results, do not do the same. That is to say, increase the funding, which in this legislature has dropped it. Because he's got the whole legislature talking about plans, about paper. Without funds, without increased funds, there is no impulse to R & D. We need to be more efficient, we need to work more effectively, okay, but that's an improvement in functioning. But without money, without more money, there is no impulse to R & D. And I was coming here... , my question was addressed directly to funding, and you answered me with the reordering, with plans, which, by the way, is not going as well as you say, and now I will comment. But I only ask you to say that it is going to increase funding, that it does not refer to what is currently in the PCTI; that it has at least the ambition, as a government, to reach the European average of 3%, and it does not start from an objective of 2.5 by 2020. That you intend to return to the way the previous legislature ended, being above the European average in investment in R & D. That is why, when you always turn to everyone – and it is true – we want the same thing, I think it is true, but that we are doing the same thing over the last few decades is not true. Not this legislature. The upward progression has been broken and it is descending, and that is the data from the Eustat. In reality Basque companies have an important size problem, it is true, but that is not the only problem they have to apply R+D+i. And I keep telling you that the big and the small (especially the small, which are the vast majority of ours) have a problem of sanitation, 100% activity recovery, even restructuring, and that makes it impossible for a strong stake to invest in R & D. That is why the Government had to have as its ambition, as an impetus in a plan that it has just made, to put in place funds to help make that happen. But he doesn't. In any case, with regard to the efficiency that you have said, the calls – which you are governing, for example – for R & D subsidies have not only decreased in size in this legislature, and are still much lower than in 2012, also in times of crisis; it is that, as we have said before, they are resolved late (and that is the management of this government). Late resolution, the end of the year, when the projects that support are completed or should be completed, loses the incentive effect required by European legislation. And there is a specific case that I also repeat, because it seems to me to reflect very well the situation of the effectiveness of this government, and it is the business R & D units. The case of these units is more dramatic because of the abolition of the Saiotek and NETs programmes and the new regulation of the Gaitek programme, which excludes them. There is a paradox that these R & D business units have less opportunities to access public funding than a conventional company, since the latter can access net subsidies without acquiring any commitment to specialization, staffing, research... And this happens with agents, business R & D units, of great importance in Europe and in the Horizon 2020 programme. And all this has produced an ever more manifest discomfort. You told the country that no one had complained, and yet it is notorious the discomfort, to the point that even some R & D units from some company have been directly with you for this concern. This is the case of CIE Automotive and (...) Technological Centre. I mean, there's a discomfort, a huge concern. And I still do not understand why you exclude these units from direct intervention, and at best obliges a product subcontracting, when in reality your mission goes beyond the ultimate technological development, which is to provide for the companies on which they depend, with which they are related, new technological developments in the medium term that cannot be made through subcontracting. The same applies to universities with basic technological research, which hosted Saiotek and are now lost. In universities, especially in two of them who are very dedicated to this, they are becoming more and more concerned. And, I dare say, more disgruntled.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u72	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u73	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. You were talking to me about papers and plans, Mr Reyes, and it is true that the papers, as you call them, and the plans require your financial resources, of course, but you will not deny me that with resources and without strategy you do not get anywhere either. Therefore, both are important in this case. And I have to tell you specifically, for example, that in the period of crisis 2008-2013, to give data as well, in Euskadi we have increased from 1.81 to 1.99. And it is true that 2013 was a dramatic year for all, for public and private institutions, and it is true that resources for R & D were reduced. It is no less true that the resources planned for 2012 were also not implemented in their completion as foreseen in budgets. So the difficulties are the difficulties, and we all suffer them. But, I said, the financial indicators of budgets are important, but when we measure the effectiveness, the quality of an innovation system in Europe, with the IUS indicator with which we all measure, of the twenty-five meters that there are, of the twenty-five objectives that are set, one is financial, and there are others. And there are other important ones in which we remain well positioned. And I'm going to talk to you about some of them. Employment has remained virtually unchanged, and wages have increased by 0.15%, then we have maintained wages and people. The main assets of knowledge are maintained, increasing the number of researchers in Euskadi in 2013 from 11,711 to 11,842, and in particular in the public administration we increased from 585 to 623. With regard to additionality, we were on the right track: private financing of companies amounted to 57 %. The number of patents increased from 210 in 2012, to 217 in 2013, at the worst time, with utility models from 112 to 130. The agents of the Basque Network of Science, Technology and Innovation captured 57 million of Europe, an important additionality compared to 2012: 12 million more. Scientific production in Euskadi reached its absolute peak in 2013, at the worst in terms of funding. In 2014 Euskadi remained among the European regions of high innovation, and for the first time Euskadi equates with the group of European countries of high innovation. Because, I insist, the resources are important, but the indicators are twenty-five, and the financial resources are one of twenty-five. The network, which continues to be highly innovative, is shown to be highly innovative. Let's say that, of the resources that have been dwindling, in terms of public administration, which is what Eustat measures, but let's measure them all, it went down from 494 to 460, it's true. Of that 34 million, 23 were from the State. The fall in resources from the State in 2013 is that, but, not content with that, in 2010 there were 131 million, and in 2013 there were only 34 (62 in 2012). Beyond that, in 2014, we incorporated more R & D, making an important effort to overcome that 2013, and we reached 194.4 million in 2013 to 202 million in 2014. And we've increased them again in 2015. In the technology programs, as I was telling you, of the 124 million of 2012 we have increased to 133,600,000 in 2015. Different, the programs are different, and we probably haven't been able to explain them as a whole, we may not have explained them well, but I insist that they go in the right line. And we have also incorporated a new tool according to European legislation, and it is incorporating, through the Basque Institute of Finance, a funding line that did not exist so far in Basque, for SMEs and midcaps, but also for technology centres, for investment in R & D, which did not exist so far. A fund of up to 100 million euros. We have also set up two advanced manufacturing centres worth EUR 13.5 million. And, as you see, I return to the strategy, which remains important, and for Europe we remain important. I trust that, certainly sooner than later, in this House too, in addition to funding, which is still important and I trust that we can go up there, let us see other things that others are able to see in us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, "To the pressure of the lawmakers of the Casanova Alonso of the EH Collectations, the head physician of economics and contestations, to the pressure that is holding up the sector of trade in the days of Bilbone." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u75	Good morning, everyone. Thank you. The country of petty commerce remains in a very serious situation. Even now that some are talking about recovery, the data isn't very hopeful in this sector. Some problems of the sector are connected with the crisis itself, and others are the effects of the economic neoliberial measures which have been enabled to face the crisis or to resist the attack. The clearest example of this position is the liberalization of the hours which are being arranged by decree. This policy is coming from Madrid, but this policy has also echoed in the Basque Country. For example, I'm sure it's meant to change the law, to facilitate the selectation of the tourist stations, and to expand, by this figure, the liberalization of the hours. But if, somewhere, the pressures to open for the great trading zones are obvious, Bilbo is the place. There's a lot of evidence of that. The former mayor and today the mayor have put on a constant pressure to open the comercials at feast time. And that seems to be a line of party, because Juan Mari Aburto, now candidate for EAJ, has joined that pressure, and he himself is making pressures to open the comercials during the holidays. So, as a result, we're asking you the following question: Is there any kind of pressure that's constantly working on the business sector to open the City of Bilbo during the holidays?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u76	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mrs. Tapia, the Lobby Boy, is in the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u77	Eskerrik asko berriro, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, you know, the RedMork uses his right hand to protect the Basque trade and every moment. And every moment he seeks the agreement with the sector, giving information to the sector, and getting information and complaints from the sector at his own time and suggestions. But let me see that you're making a mistake in the concept, trying to confuse all the others. I'd like to explain that the liberalization of the timetables and the nomination of the high tourist fields is two different things and must not be confounded. If you hadn't, like fun, put any resources to the legal model established by Madrid. Therefore, all these shops would be open throughout the Euskadi if we had not put that resource, but that resource was put in place. But not only was the appeal lodged, but the Euskadi Business Act continues to be applied, as a result of that appeal and as a result of a law passed in this Parliament. Thanks to this, Basque traders, those who have more than 150 square meters, maintain only the possibility of opening eight days a year, eight holidays, 72 hours a week, and two promotional sales periods. They are the result of an agreement and an established law, which was also endorsed by the whole Consultative Council on Trade. What we do, therefore, is not to pressure anyone, but to try to enforce that law that we have adopted in this House. Because equally condemnable is to apply policies of unbridled openness, which lead to a dead end – against which we are, of course, as a government, and we have done everything we have to do – but equally condemnable is the attitude that some want to impose at all costs, in order to open a festive day, those shops to which the law protects them. We are going to be in both areas, and we are going to continue to be, from this government and from all the institutions, against total liberation, but, of course, against a situation that makes some people not affected by that law that we have acquired in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u79	Mrs Tapia, perhaps I have given you the opportunity to deviate from the subject, because I did not think you could hear a single word about the question, which was the attitude of the Bilbao municipal government to pressure traders in the city of Bilbao. We will talk about those issues that you have raised to me, and about the attitude of the Basque Government, when they are willing to continue the process of amending the Business Act. It seems that, although you say that you have a permanent dialogue with the whole sector, you are not very interested in bringing that law here before the elections, or in activating the appearances before the elections, because you know that you actually have the whole sector and society against any step in favour of liberation. But I am going to talk about Bilbao. I am going to talk about Bilbao, for example, where the mayor (the previous mayor, already unfortunately deceased, Mr Azkuna) said things like "You know my opinion, that it is favorable to open eight festivities a year, at least", "The Chinese have started to open as mushrooms; if ours do not open, worse for them", "The Chinese eat, sleep and procreate in their stores; I don't know where they die, but they will compete with us in a tremendous way", or "Or we open, or we wake up, or we have more and more Chinese." Mr Areso: "The shops miss the opportunity of the Basketball World Cup to open on Sunday." And now Mr.Aburto: "Bilbain trade should open on Holy Week and on certain bridges." And in addition to these statements there are a number of measures, such as the fortunately frustrated attempt, among other things by the intervention of Euskal Herria Bildu, to reclassify the Circular Square to facilitate the installation of a shopping center, and the change of the General Plan of Urban Planning to favor the opening of shopping centers in the center. And it is not only we who denounce this situation: "Cecobi rejects the Bilbao City Council's line of action to point out traders as the bad guys in the film"; Euskal Dendak says that "Bilbao regulates trade to the extent of the Great Way". What we are asking you is whether this is the policy that your Government supports, because, moreover, what is done in Bilbo, in fact, not only has influence in Bilbo: it has influence in Bilbo and it has influence throughout Bizkaia. Let's see if we think that Barakaldo or Basauri traders are not going to suffer the consequences of a generalized holiday opening in Bilbao! Traders, you know very well and indeed it is, they already have the right to open, those less than 150 square meters, and they don't open because they don't want to open. They don't want to open up because it's not profitable for them. They don't because they like to lose money, among other things many considerations. It therefore makes no sense for them to be pressured and even accused of sabotaging or not allowing an open and touristic city project not to open on Sundays. Let them leave the merchants alone, that they know very well what they have to do, and that the release of schedules is not promoted...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u80	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u81	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, mix it all up again! General opening where? A law is being enforced, trying to enforce a law that we have established here: eight holidays a year, when they decide and if they decide. Nothing more. And don't tell me there's no shops open. Of course, I don't know in Bilbao, San Sebastián I know him a little more, but all the shops of the Old Party that have less than 150 square meters are permanently open, because the law protects them. Why not in Bilbao? Let them decide, of course, but don't you decide for them. Those who want to open up and comply with the law that we have given ourselves in this Parliament, and not the widespread openness that you are talking about, because there is no one they can open up, according to what they decide. And, of course, the Basque Government has resolved the issue of commercial hours in areas of great tourist influx at the request of the two municipalities (Bilbao and Donostia) and according to what they have asked us, as agreed at the plenary session in each of the two municipalities. Nothing more. And, of course, the law on changing business hours is in this Parliament, is already here. He hasn't been late. With the agreement of all who were preparing it. Here it is, and I agree, above all, I insist, with the two large municipalities (Bilbao and Donosti) to which they are affected at this time, with the full agreement of the two municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the team of the Socialists, Rosa Fresno Asensio Ascentialls, made to the head of economics and competitions, to compete with the Fishing Program." Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u83	Good morning, Counselor, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Commissioner, the Lehiatu Arrantza programme, provided for in Decree 226/2010, regulates aid for the processing and marketing of fishery and aquaculture products. The reasons for the adoption of the decree and the programme were, on the one hand, the need to adapt to the reform of Community legislation and, on the other, the need to make the necessary changes to adapt to the new realities of transformation and marketing in this sector of activity. The aim is to prioritise the generation of added value in the processing and marketing sector and to enhance socio-economic dynamics in the geographical areas concerned, as well as to strengthen competitiveness in the Basque fish processing and marketing industry. In particular, the aid is aimed at achieving the following objectives: improving working conditions; improving and monitoring hygiene and public health conditions or product quality; obtaining high-quality products for highly specialised markets; reducing the negative impact on the environment; better use of poorly exploited species (by-products, waste) and the production or marketing of new products; applying new technologies and developing innovative production methods; and marketing products mainly from local landings and aquaculture. In other words, a vital aid programme for our agri-food industry. Madam Counsellor, as you know, when applying for aid, these cannot be requested to do works earlier than the date of the grant order. However, our entrepreneurs cannot wait, and they need to continue to adapt to the needs, but they expect to know what their Government will do with this issue. That is why, because it is important to the sector, and the sector is of vital importance to us, we would like to know when it expects them to publish the subsidy order of the Lehiatu Arrantza programme referred to this year. And by extension, since the decree has lapsed for its validity, for when a new decree will also come out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. In reply, Mrs. Tapia, "Mody" is on her feet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u85	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. As you said, the Lehiatu Arrantza programme, provided for in Decree 226/2010, on aid for the processing and marketing of fishery and aquaculture products, was developed within the Community framework of reference at that time for aid for fishery and aquaculture products, Council Regulation 1198/2006 of 27 July 2006 on the European Fisheries Fund (EFF), which set as its main objective the sustainable development of the common fisheries policy in force until 2014. Therefore, the above-mentioned decree has ended its period of validity, and consequently the funds that were being used as well. For the period 2014-2020, the Community reference framework for aid to fisheries and aquaculture products is the new Regulation 208/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on what is now called the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, which has emerged as a financial instrument to implement and achieve the objectives set out in the common fisheries policy agreed throughout 2013. This department is currently, in accordance with this new legislation, developing the relevant legislation in Euskadi in order to contribute to the achievement of the objectives of this common fisheries policy. And, with regard to the aid for processing and marketing of products to which the new fund, the new Lehiatu Arrantza programme, is planned with publication for this exercise, in a call that will have an envelope of approximately 1,951,000 euros, by September 2015, that is when we preview that the regulation is developed and with the approval of the European Union because it conforms to what is the new decree. We know that it is somewhat delayed with regard to the forecasts of our companies, but what we give priority in this case is legal certainty over anything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u87	It is true that on 25 January the European Parliament and the Council reached a political agreement on Femap for the period 2014-2020, an agreement essential for the Fund to enter into force. Madam Counsellor, our real concern is that, while people who are actually making or want to make investments and cannot take up this plan, would it not be necessary to take steps to speed up aid, and measures that can be perfectly reflected in the reality of the common fisheries policy, because they can be approved, moving forward (that is, with participation) to the government's official inspection, so that the work and investments that are carried out are within the subsidy of the common fisheries policy? And as it really is, and they are concerned, and the operation of Brussels is agreed, that we agree, but in the meantime, what are our companies doing? Are they standing there paralyzed? Can't you help them?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u88	Chief physician. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u89	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. We know perfectly well what the situation is, and not only in this case, when there are Community rules on this matter, but in all kinds of aid which must comply with Community rules, the first thing we have to do is to guarantee legal certainty for those who are going to receive the aid. And no instrument that has not been previously agreed with the European Union can be put in place, because it may be necessary to return such aid. That would be almost worse than carrying a decree, an order, in time a little more retarded. The same is happening to us with the new research programmes, exactly the same: they have new rules, new programming period, or as you wish to call it, and we have to comply with each and every one of the European Union's rules. And if we don't have the visa we can't start activating them, since they would be de facto recursible. And we understand that that, I insist, would be a lot worse than being late. Legal certainty first of all, although we know that for companies it can be problematic for order to come out a little later. But we cannot arbitrate anything that does not have the European Union's approval; we know from experience that this can really be a problematic aspect in the development of its activities in the future. That's the situation, but we're speeding up all the processing and being as agile as possible. This aid order will therefore be in place throughout September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interadelation, the Mistho of the Gorka Maniroy, a member of the President of the Uplegus and Polylice Society, had been admitted to an entire meeting of proposals on the 7th of November 2014 and 13th. " Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u91	Thank you, President. Mr Councilman, last November a full monograph was held on the comprehensive strategy to be developed by the Government to tackle unemployment and poverty, which UPyD believes are the most serious problems facing Basque society, and especially an important part of that Basque society. Fifty-five resolutions, all of which were of great importance in improving the life of Basque citizens, were adopted at those sessions of the plenary monograph. Of these fifty-five motions for resolutions adopted in that plenary, we highlight some of them, and in particular, we wanted to bring three of them to today's debate (resolution No. 8, the last item in resolution No. 9, and resolution 21), since they are motions for resolutions that set a deadline that has already expired, and we therefore ask the Councilman whether these motions for resolutions were actually taken into consideration by the Government and whether they have been complied with. The motion for a resolution No. 8 stated: "The Basque Parliament, with the intention of minimizing precarious employment rates and irregularities in recruitment, calls on the Basque Government to draw up in three months a specific plan for the strengthening of the labour inspection, with sufficient human and material resources aimed at combating undeclared work, abusive days, false self-employment and any other kind of violation of the law". I ask you if this specific plan is made. Motion for a resolution No. 9 stated the following: the Government was asked to design and refer to the House within three months the basis for a permanent and ambitious strategy to strengthen the employment inclusion of young people. I ask you whether those foundations that Parliament requested more than four months ago have been designed and referred to the House. And the motion for a resolution No 21, by which this Parliament urged the Government to forward to Parliament, before the end of the first quarter of this year, the new plan and strategy for active social inclusion, drawn up with social partners and trade unions in order to complete the Basque system of social protection. I also ask whether this plan and strategy have been referred to this Parliament. We believe that all these motions for resolutions are of great importance, as they directly affect issues of great importance, such as employment, youth employment, and inclusion. That is why we are asking you, Mr Councillor, to explain the state of development of these plans and strategies, as well as to know which of the actions contained in the resolutions of the November monograph have begun to be implemented, at what level of development they are, and what actions the Basque Government will take in the short term. It was a full monographic of extraordinary importance. In that full monograph, the various groups presented relevant initiatives, put forward strong arguments, and urged the Government to take a number of decisions. I believe that most of those motions for resolutions that have been adopted have not been complied with by this Government, but in any case I am referring to those particulars whose time limit has expired, and of course, in our view, this Government has failed to comply with those motions for resolutions. The important thing is also to analyse what the Basque Government has done all this time, particularly throughout the legislature, to deal with the economic crisis, to create stable and high-quality employment; what the Basque Government has done to deal with poverty, also to deal with energy poverty, or to deal with inequality. There are thousands of Basque citizens who today are in a certainly unfortunate, very worrying situation, and therefore we are concerned about this. There are data that are certainly negative, and of course I do not believe that this Government can be proud of the actions that have been taken to deal with these very serious problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u92	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. Toña has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u93	Ma'am, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. Mr. Maneiro, what have we done to deal with the crisis? For I believe that these plenarys of this Parliament, and of course those of the Council of the Government, and all the actions of government, therefore, in so many of the actions we have done precisely that, political to deal with the crisis. And we have developed the actions envisaged in that plenary. We've developed the actions. In some cases we have not formally referred it to the House, and I accept that question. With regard to resolution No. 8, the fight against precariousness and labour exploitation in all areas where they occur is a priority objective of this Government, and I am sure that it would be of all the governments formed with all the parliamentary groups present in this House. In order to achieve this objective, we have the labour inspectorate, which, among its tasks, has precisely that, the monitoring and control of working conditions, the fight against irregular employment, and ensuring the quality of employment laid down in the regulations. The activities of the inspection are carried out by means of planned campaigns, at the request of different bodies, and ultimately also in response to complaints that workers, social partners and employers may submit about alleged irregularities detected in any field of work. We have a staff of officials who, as far as job coverage is concerned – this is important to point out – fit within the State Labour and Social Security Inspection System, which conditions us when making decisions in this area and, therefore, when developing everything we want. However, in our desire to improve the work of this inspection, in response to Parliament's request, we have made an effective reinforcement in the Labour Inspectorate of the Basque Country and have incorporated three inspectors to strengthen territorial inspections. And we are currently awaiting the call for the State-level transfer competition, which is not up to us, which will cover the remaining existing vacancies (which, I repeat, are not up to us). And on the other hand, in the context of difficulty for the increase of staff in the Administration – which I have to recognise, and which you also know, because you criticize us many times – we have started a project that involves the increase of another six new places of labour and social security inspectors. This increase will allow a better vertebration of the structure we have, in order to have a greater number of staff and to develop the functions of control and surveillance of labour relations. With regard to Resolution No 9 that you mentioned, Mr Maneiro, this very Monday – and you were there – we had the opportunity to share in the Parliamentary Committee on Employment and Social Policy the 2015 Action Plan, within the 2004-2016 Employment Plan. There we certainly gave the explanation that I repeat most briefly today. He will recall that among the objectives of the Employment Plan 2014-2016 it was possible to highlight the promotion of employment and employment for the most disadvantaged people, and especially young people. I believe that you have heard me repeatedly, in the two and a half months I have had to talk about this. Thus, among the operational programmes that form part of the plan, a specific youth employment promotion programme is established. It is equipped with more than 34 million euros for this year, it is structured into four axes, and the axes are concrete in twenty-two initiatives of which you have a complete dossier. The first, support for young entrepreneurship, is carried out through six actions: aid to young promoters for new business ideas and the start-up and consolidation of businesses; secondly, the agreement with Gaztempresa; thirdly, the Urrats Bat programme; fourthly, training and dissemination of the social economy for young people; fifthly, the Junior Cooperatives programme; and sixthly, innovative actions for youth entrepreneurship. The second axis, which is that of dual training, is developed through the following actions: the Hezibi programme, and practical training in work centres. Both lines are in execution (that's why I tell you they are in execution), and they are the result of the collaboration between Lanbide and the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture. The third of the axes, the so-called "First work experience", is developed through the following actions: Lehen Aukera (not with the results we try to achieve, but not because we do not commit to it); recruitment of young people in Basque companies abroad; thirdly, the relay contracts; fourthly, the agreements with universities and the Novia Salcedo Foundation; and fifthly, the specific orientation to young people. And the fourth and final axis is that of young talent, and it is implemented through the following actions, also six: the scholarships for internationalization; the Global Training programme; support for youth return, which is still in the design phase; the scholarships of the United Nations project; the grants for specialization in development cooperation; and the aid to cooperating people. Secondly, with regard to resolution No. 21 on which you are calling, last year, as a result of the initial evaluation of the 2012-2016 Active Inclusion Plan, we decided to address a re-articulation of the plan and to re-categorize the actions in order to bring them into line with the current reality and existing resources to combat poverty and social exclusion. In principle, the evaluation shows – we have to recognise this – that we are far from the objectives proposed at its origin in that Basque inclusion plan. We believe (now we can say) that they were unrealistic. In this evaluation process, all the bodies involved were consulted, and their outcome was presented at the last meeting held by the interinstitutional commission this year, 2015, on 23 January. And, in relation to the prioritization of the lines of work of the Active Inclusion Plan, the proposal made within this committee on 23 January was, first, to redo the diagnosis – which we said was unrealistic – on which that plan was based. Secondly, to reformulate from this diagnosis the strategic and general objectives according to the priorities of the public administrations, in collaboration with the rest of the social actors. Thirdly, to establish what specific actions should be maintained in the new inclusion plan, and to establish in a consensual manner the changes or reorientations to be introduced. Fourthly, consider the possibility of setting up by public administrations new services, programmes or actions to achieve the objectives set. Fifthly, the creation of technical working groups involving representatives of the various levels of the administrations with competence for social inclusion, such as the outside bodies, who have so far been involved in the management of this plan.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u94	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u95	Yes, thank you, counselor. Indeed, I was asking you what you have done to deal with the economic crisis, unemployment, job insecurity, inequality, and I know that you have put in place a series of actions, a series of programmes, a series of axes, but the truth is that the results cannot be considered satisfactory at all. I think we can say today, two and a half years after the start of the legislature, that this government has failed in the fight against unemployment and the fight against job insecurity. I think those are the results. Beyond the fact that you have been presenting a series of programmes or actions, or have been announcing the implementation of a series of measures, the results are what they are. And, indeed, I was in that committee on Monday, and I cannot feel at all optimistic, and I do not think that you can be satisfied with what you have done, this work to solve those very serious problems that continue to suffer thousands of citizens. This is the conclusion that we have reached, I say, two and a half years after the start of the legislature. We actually referred to three specific motions for resolutions, and I do not think that one of them has been complied with, beyond what you have said. As a general conclusion we can say, and in some cases you have acknowledged it, that none of these motions for resolutions have been complied with by this Government. This is, therefore, the reality before which we are faced. And there was also another set of motions for resolutions among those fifty-five that we also consider to have been breached by this Government. When we urged the Government to commit itself, to perfect and strengthen the Basque system of social protection for those who intend to cut it, we also see no clear position on the part of this Government. Or when we asked the Basque Government to submit within six months a study on real poverty resulting from job insecurity and wage insufficiency. Those six months have not yet been fulfilled, but I would also like to ask you how the implementation of that parliamentary mandate is going. Or social emergency aid, when the government was urged to increase the budget line for social emergency aid. The same applies to conciliation aid. I believe that this Government is permanently failing to fulfil parliamentary mandates, or a good number of them. I believe that this Government is failing them, and a good example is those motions for resolutions adopted in that monographic plenary. Many of them, many of them can say today that they have failed. In our view, therefore, we can speak of a clear failure on the part of this Government in terms of job creation and in terms of the quality of employment created in Euskadi, beyond the plans and programmes put in place. The results are: unemployment remains unsustainable, inequality has increased, poverty has increased, temporary employment and precarious employment has also increased, there are thousands of citizens and families who cannot reach the end of the month, young and not so young are suffering a series of absolutely miserable wages, and thousands of young Basques have recently chosen to leave. Indeed, there have been certain positive external factors, such as the devaluation of the euro by the European Central Bank or the fall in oil prices, which can encourage us to be optimistic about the future of companies. But they're external factors. If we look at what this Government has done, the conclusion is that it has done virtually nothing, and, in any case, I say that the results are certainly regrettable. The weight of industry has fallen by 3 % during the crisis; I therefore say that we can conclude that the government today has failed in terms of job creation. And we can also talk about the immobilism of the Basque Government: you have barely done anything, unless you fail to comply with parliamentary mandates. There is, therefore, an obvious absence of quiet reforms, of important decisions to change the situation. You will tell me that you have put in place plans, axes, programmes, but, Mr. Counsellor, the results are what they are. The results are bad. And citizens can't wait.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u96	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u97	Mr Maneiro, this second speech of yours has little to do with questioning. We will have unsatisfactory results in terms of unemployment and job insecurity: we have the best results of the State in this area, and we start from levels closer to Europeans than those of the State. I will never be satisfied with the results achieved, Mr Maneiro. No, never, because we always have to go after improving what we do. And if we fail to meet some issues, such as the failure to generate higher quality employment, then that too depends in large part on a labour reform that this Government has criticized and which it is not in favour of. And that quality employment fundamentally, or that indecent employment, is not generated by this Government. But, well, I'm going to answer at least the questions you've asked in the interpellation. With regard to the labour inspection, I believe that the action that has been taken is unquestionable. The increase in the number of persons involved in the work of integration implies a clear reinforcement in what we can do: to combat submerged employment, abusive working hours, non-compliance with working conditions and other violations of the law that may occur and that occur. And the Government's will in this matter coincides with that of this parliamentary mandate, but, as I explained in my first speech, our ability to act is conditioned by the fact that the Euskadi labour inspectors in the State Labour and Social Security Inspection System are framed. Secondly, with regard to the inclusion of young people in the labour market, the bases, strategy, resources and budget allocations are defined. They will always be insufficient, always, but they are the ones that we can set in motion, and they are ambitious with the resources that this Government has at its disposal. And, as I told you before, these actions are described in the current Employment Plan 2014-2016. On Monday we appeared, as I said before, to explain these actions in 2015, we handed them the document with the details of the actions and the budget lines. And you don't like it very much. Okay. They are not only designed and known, but are being applied. And, in the same way, when the 2014 data are definitive, as we committed ourselves to that commission, we will make them known. And finally, following the evaluation process of the Active Inclusion Plan, the interinstitutional commission of the plan met, as I told you, on 23 January, and the conclusions are to redo the diagnosis on which that plan was based, reformulate the objectives of the plan, see what actions should be maintained and what new ones should be adopted, set up working groups with representatives of administrations and social entities to address that work. In short, Mr Maneiro, we are trying to push forward a realistic plan that is in line with current possibilities. If poverty increases in this country, I do not tell you what is increasing in the State. I do not tell you, because fortunately, thanks to the social protection system that this country has been endowed with – which, I repeat, will always be insufficient, because more could always be done – fortunately, the levels of inequality in our country have not grown with the crisis. They haven't grown. Our protection systems (income guarantee income, emergency aid, conciliation aid) are critical for a number of issues, but certainly look for them in the rest of the autonomous communities, look for them in the Spanish State, and you will not find them. And if you find them, it will certainly be with budget allocations that all of them, as a whole, are less than... On the contrary, more than 50% of all social protection provisions made in the State come from the Basque Autonomous Community of our country. If you don't think so, we can do more, but we do what we can. What we can't do is impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u98	Thank you, Mr. Toña. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, Ichasus González, a member of the Basque Socialists, made to Enplegu and the head physician of the National Society, about the closing up of certain areas of the profession." My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u99	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, you already know what question I'm going to move you. What I don't know is whether I'm going to be able to transfer the concern that the Lanbide director, Mr. Allustiza, has made to him in Sestao and Lasarte, talking about a possible closure of the training centres that Lanbide has in these two localities. This is a very important issue for us, and without further ado I ask you in a ritual way the question: What is the criterion that this Government maintains in relation to the closure of the Lanbide training centres in Sestado and Lasarte?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u100	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u101	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Itxaso, as has been said and repeated from this department in general, but of course from Lanbide in particular, we have as our main objective, in the field of employment, the improvement of the employability of workers, and training is a crucial tool for this. However, Lanbide's work is not to provide such training or to maintain its own vocational training centres. Lanbide's job is to find and hire the best training providers, content specialists and learning methodologies that guarantee the best results in people's employability. Euskadi has always been committed to maintaining a powerful and well-formed vocational training network, and those centres to which you refer are. Within this network, integrated vocational training centres, both public and private, stand out. It is these centres that are perfectly equipped to perform the functions of reference centre in Euskadi. Lanbide therefore does not need to approve the centres of Sestao and Lasarte. It has not done so, because there are already integrated-network centres for this, many of which belong to one of the professional families with the widest implantation in the Basque productive fabric, such as that of mechanical manufacturing. Its non-approval as a reference centre has not resulted in its definitive closure. Do not worry about the citizens of Sestao and Lasarte, because this Government has not abandoned them, but what has been done with these centres is to subscribe them to the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture, which is competent to carry out these vocational training centres.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u102	Thank you, Mr. Toña. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u103	Counselor, but it is true that the Department of Education has for over a year owed an answer to your department about whether or not it is doing something or not doing something with these centers. The Department of Education has not formally assumed that competence. On the other hand, let me say that last day in the committee we spoke and agreed that active employment policies themselves are not capable enough to generate employment, but it will agree with us that there are active policies that are more efficient than others. We are talking about localities like Sestao, for example, with the highest unemployment rate in Euskadi, of 26% (3,000 unemployed of 28,000), one of whose causes is low qualification. We have a significant number of young people who call them ninis, who neither study nor work. On the other hand, we have a very high rate of people employed with overqualification, that is, that there is overqualification above the posts that are often employed. This gives rise to a very important role for vocational training. These centres have been abandoned by the Basque Government as reference centres. At the level of Spain they had that mention, and he has renounced it. The Department of Education, on the other hand, does not know, does not answer, does not answer. With the answer you have given at this very first moment, I do not believe that the uncertainties and concerns of these municipalities will be dispelled, where at least one of them has already been pronounced at the municipal level, urging the Government not to proceed with that closure. And, on the other hand, I find your response to the fact that the public employment service is only planning to be quite disturbing. We believe that in the improvement of skills, the professional certification – which has not been done much either – we understand that there is an abandonment of what has been its functions so far, very important, and the response you have given us, Mr. Counsellor, seems disturbing, because it seems to be in the direction of what some people are proposing, and that is that we are talking about an open, pure and hard outsourcing, not to mention privatization, of those programs and services. They have proposed at the municipal level to set up an advisory commission in which companies and the city council participate in these centres, in order to know the training needs that economic activity, businesses can have, and that they need unemployed people who want to join the labour market, and even those who, while busy, want to improve their skills. It seems to us the answer... I am sorry that I did not do so in the form of an inquiry, but rather a question, because a motion would immediately arise. But, anyway, we will take the initiative, because we are going to resist that approach that you do. We understand that's not the way...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u104	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u105	We know very well in this Government that Sestao has high unemployment rates, and we are making efforts from different areas, from employment, from housing and from social policies, at least from my department. I don't know if you haven't understood me or wanted to understand me, but Lanbide plans, but Lanbide hires the best centers in the country to provide training, and therefore does not privatize in that sense. The activity as training centres for employment ceased in 2009 in the center of Lasarte, right, but in July 2013 it also ceased in Sestao, four years later, despite a course in pneumatics. In 2014 the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture was seconded, and during this year 2015 it is the intention of this department to occupy the facilities and implement the educational lines of vocational training that are considered most suitable for these centers. With regard to the staffing of occupational centres, which we are concerned about our Government, it is true that it has not been able to be transferred to the Department of Education, and that has certainly delayed some planning. But we have done so precisely to preserve those jobs. Because there are knowledge gaps of the transferred faculty regarding the new demands of the world of work, there is inadequate academic qualifications required to exercise various positions in centers with training cycles, according to the criteria of the Department of Education, and there is also lack of knowledge of euskera that seems important to us, both in Sestao and in Lasarte...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u106	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Time is up. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interregation, the parliamentary members of the Belsen Rock Tree Group, made for Education, Language Policy, and Cultural Division, which is the third of the First Education. "about the evaluation of class students." Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u107	Good morning again. We may say that this education in education has been the year when Lomce's establishment has opened the doors; it seems important to me, as I have often said, to remember. That is to say, what Lomc does to our education system is no doubt a serious attack, and this is how the professors of education in the Basque Country have insisted on. Most of the professors in the Basque Country (temporary, family, workers, and other organizations) have clearly expressed the contrary opinion of Lomce introduced by the Wert Board of Education, and the Head of Education has been insisted on not applying it to the Aran, the Bazay, and the Gipuzian. For those who push inclutive school, cogitator and integrated school, Lomce is a painful step back. The law of Lomce, as I have said, is a serious attack. For those of us who are constructing an education system of our reality, the axis of education for those who think it necessary to have it, and for those who defend our own and public education, Lomce is a serious attack. We want our own education system, and we need it without the application and interference of Madrid. What did you do, the Board of Education, in front of this attack? Almost nothing, he gave up. Instead of regulating and protecting the means of attacking the attack, you started the app. News 2020 as a roadpage, but New Hezier 2020 frames are not useful to Lomce. And this is evident from the fact that the curriculums have been subject to discussion; and lastly, these decrees are principally received by Lomc. As it often happens, and when you see Lomce setting up, it's not a little bit of school, professors, parents, agreements and modes that agree with Lomce's app. In this context, what we've seen and heard this week has struck us. Tuesday, at the meeting with the Ministry of Education in Madrid, the viceregal Board of Education and Asturias, Andalucia, Canary, and Catalunia. And amongst the reasons why to rise, Lomce has insisted on the assault of the education of the community upon the education of the community, on the centralization, uniformity, and diminution of education. Positive gesture. But that gesture, if it's real, would have to make a difference from the Board of Education until now. In any case, it would be necessary to guarantee the engagement that will not be successful, and to prevent the educational form in an efficient manner, the strategy of agreeing with the education-makers. But today-it's not like that. The Board of Education, followed by Lomce's application calendar, in the course of this year's education, advanced to the students of third-rate school in the school of school 30, who would be a evaluation test, even though they know that the opinion of the educational unit is not consistent with decision. So we see a stage of hypocrisy: Get up from the Madrid meeting and apply what Madrid orders. It doesn't count. It is an obvious example of what we are saying that you gave our students the first tests Lomc sets in this study. There are many reasons to oppose the following system of tests: Instead of defaulting the continuous evaluation, instead of evading the entire course of study, the results are given all importance and the students are placed in a race full of obstacles. A standardized tests, which do not take into account the near context, are formed, regardless of their economic, social and cultural context (they are strangers, after all). Only things that are instrumental are evaluated. There's a risk of turning classes into centers for testing. And private companies open their options for evaluation. You will say that your plan is another one, that you will establish the evaluation based on companies, that in the third level this year you will test a pilot, and that what I have just said will not happen here, it will not be reality. But, as Lomc says, for the first time, you're going to give the third-class tests in some school in the First Education this year. This attitude, from our point of view, has nothing to do with the attitude of Madrid on Tuesday. Therefore we say that it is well to rise from the assembly of Madrid, but that the action of Madrid here takes away all credit from that positive gesture. Because, next year, what? This year's third-level test pilots, and when it comes, more evaluation tests? In high school, sixth grade, DBHn, high school, college? This is why we interpelation with Cristina Urire Toledo, the chief physician of the department: What is the purpose of the Board of Education to do before the end of this year, and according to Lomce's settings calendar, with the evaluation of third-rate students in the First Education?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. In reply, Mrs. Uriart, who's a local representative, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u109	Andrea president, Sailburuok. Mrs. Arrid, you'll understand, I won't go back to Lomce's opinion and attitude. We have been sufficiently clear in this parliament, in the Senate, in the Confusion of Education, called by the Ministry, in the presence of the professors of Education, and wherever we have appeared. We're totally against Lomce's education form. As we have often said, we have used all the resources which are in our power against Lomce, and we shall always use them to protect our education. And, as you said, New York 2020 is not against Lomce, but to improve our educational system. That's why, as soon as the organic law has been established, it has been necessary to make certain decisions and measures to protect our students. The Board of Education, Policy, and Cultural, has begun to model its education model within 2020 plans. As you know, New York 2020 plans have three plans. The first, which marks the direction of education, is the frame of pedagogical education. The student seeks to develop all the basic competitions and prepare them for life. The second project of this plan is the facts of curriculum. These descriptions are intended to regulate the order of curriculum and instruction in elementary education. In order to prepare the Curriculum projects, we have performed a magnificent part-process, one of the richest processes in the prosperity of the Basque Education Administration, so as not to be said to be the richest. And right now, I'm just trying to tell you that, you know, it's transmitting the decrees of Child Education and elementary education. Among the most remarkable results of the fundamental decree, we have this: Colleges will have autonomy for organization, if they arrange and cycle the first year of education and cycle, as we have said, three cycles, or, as we have proposed, to separate them into two cycles; and the minimum time proposed will give the schools the opportunity to perform their education model. On the other hand, the evaluations which regulate our decree aim at diagnosis and improvement. And this has nothing to do with what the minister wants to impose. As we stated this week at the conference in education, we are opposed to the external events which the Ministry intends to regulate, against the end of these evaluations, and against the model of evaluation. First, because their object is to control all the students and to effect the consequences in the academic results of the students. In other words, because they are no longer useful to evaluate all competitions (in the case of discipline and indirect). Here, in the Fertilizing of our Autonomy, the evaluation we plan in the decree is perfectly consistent with the new pedagogical model. In the New Curriculum, we propose to separate schools into two cyclones of the First Education. On the one hand there will be the first, the second, and the third, and on the other the fourth, fifth, and sixth degrees. That way, there'll be two evaluations in the first school: in the third rank and sixth grade. Our third-rate evaluation will be prepared by the school with the help of the ISEI-IVEI, so it will be an internal evaluation. And the evaluation we're going to be in sixth grade will be a diagnosis of ISEI-IVEI. As you can see, you ask me not to join in the evaluations, but we tend by another way, which is our own way, from the way we're working on the New Year's 2020 plan, adapting ourselves to the interests of our students to the interests of our education system. Before this government has passed over the third-rate evaluation of education, I would like to make another couple of points. In the last few days we have learned by means of means of communication that several undertakings have been produced, by unions and platforms, in order not to partake of the trial which is to be done in the third grade of the First Education. I'm not going to come in to judge these initiatives, but I'd like to ask the families to be responsible. Besides, I'd like to send them a simple message. In the first place, the third class of education has no influence on the academic file of the student; it has only the improvement of the students and of the system. This is very important. The third evaluation of Primary does not affect the student's file at all, it is not an evaluation with academic consequences. It is an evaluation that is carried out internally in the centre with the help of ISEI-IVEI and that seeks to obtain information for the improvement of the system. Basic legislation obliges us to implement it, but it limits the establishment of criteria that can be considered basic, and allows effective intervention by the autonomous executive in the exercise of its powers. This government will use it for the benefit of the quality of education and our students, through the development of the educational model developed within the Heziberri 2020 plan. Another thing is what the central Government intends to do with end-of-stage evaluations. This same week, as I said, we expressed our deepest rejection of the draft royal decree regulating the final evaluation tests of Compulsory Secondary Education and Bachelor's degree. This is a clear invasion of competition, and we have therefore called for the withdrawal of this draft royal decree. So, apart from the other evaluations at the moment, and concentrating on the third degree of high school evaluation, the division is working not to fulfill what Lomc had established, but to bring the model of the New One 2020 plan into the room, as we have done in other areas. So we're just trying to turn our decrees and attachments on the curriculum of education from the hands of the New Education Plan. And on the other hand, we have a diagnosis of evaluation. As you know, we're taking the diagnosis evaluation from the year 2009 and we're going to perform the fifth edition of this year. Euscata diagnostic evaluation has a natural character different from the other autonomy members: the external evaluation of tests, the system of the results, the greatest inclusive of all students during the process, the guarantee of confidentiality, or the lack of cheating. For us, all these characters are indispensable. Hence we believe that even in the third course of education, these characters ought to be retained, by adapting them to age and the conditions of these students. In this way we approach the evaluation of third-party primary education, mainly taking into account two elements: Heziberri 2020, and diagnostic evaluation. The second draft of the plan, as I have already mentioned, will lead to the publication of the basic education curriculum decree and its corresponding annexes, in which we have been working for a long time with the active participation of educational agents. In this draft decree, as I have already pointed out, we have proposed the division of primary education into two cycles: first, second and third courses on the one hand, and fourth, fifth and sixth courses on the other. As a result, the third-party evaluation of Primary Education is fully consistent with the educational model promoted within the Heziberri 2020 plan. We approach the evaluation of the third primary from the previous experience of the diagnostic evaluation, which we have been developing since 2009 and which during this course will address its fifth edition. Euskadi's diagnostic evaluation has its own characteristics that we consider to be key, and it is therefore important to maintain these peculiarities also in the third course of primary education. Taking into account that this is also the first time that we have evaluated this level, we have considered that it is not appropriate to carry out an evaluation to the entire third-year student without having previously had the corresponding curriculum and careful piloting of the tests, the supports and the conditions and characteristics of this evaluation process. It should be borne in mind that this type of testing has not been carried out so far in boys and girls of such a young age, a year less than those who are currently conducting the diagnostic evaluation. It is therefore essential to adapt to the age of the student being tested. A pilot test has therefore been decided during this course and a sample of centres has been selected in order to ensure that the conditions of this evaluation are fully adapted to the pupils of these ages. The ISEI-IVEI will contact the selected centres and provide them with all necessary information on the development of this pilotage. Thus, during the 2014-2015 course, the first individualised pilot test of the third Primary Education will be carried out, which will be carried out during the month of May in a total of thirty centres, and in each centre in two groups, of models D and B. Test pilot's goal is to get all of the information required for third-level evaluation in the First Education. Thus we look after our pupil's interest and attend to our reality and necessity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Arrido, your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u111	You're talking about Lomce today, but I'm happy, the Board of Education is applying Lomce. This year, in our colleges, Lomce is in, you're applying. You're keeping this app secret in many cases. What about the environment? What religion? Which third class tests? What criteria have they used to choose schools? Are the schools forced to go through the test? Is it voluntary? Who's going to design tests? Who was that? What concrete purpose does it have? You didn't specify it. You just mentioned the educational plan and you said what's it's about, and that's what we know about it. But I'll give you a few examples. You mentioned the distribution of cycles and cycles, saying that the autonomy of schools is overcoming the decision of schools. That's not true. It's very well to mention autonomy in paper, but Lomce sets up two cycles in the First Education (there have been three before). Well, not the cycle, but it sets a third-level test and a sixth test. What's he doing in our schools? In short, compare to these two cycles: the first, the second, and the third, and the fourth, the fifth, and the sixth. It's a coincidence, an organization according to the tests Lomc sets. That's what we're talking about. And that's why I said it's all right to get up with the members of the other societies of Madrid and plan with the Secretary Wert, but what's no logic and what's hypocrisy is to come here and apply to Lomce. We want to send two messages to EH from collect. One, we're against that third-rate test. We are opposed because it is the effect of the Lomce's application, because it is an inpositation; and we are opposed because it is quite anti-opedagogical. Two. We're gonna unite, of course, we're gonna protect the educational unit. In particular, we will protect those who determine to be disobedient to this examination, those families which have children in the third class. We also encourage them to take this way: not to test and plan Lomce. And this is not taking things to the end. Maybe that's what she'll be thinking about right now, Chief physician. It's not just the size of the Basque Country. No. As you have said, the Platforms of Araba, Bikaiko, Gipure, and Navarre have asked you to do so repeatedly, and many of them are ready to do so. And not just the platforms. The E.H.I.E.E.E.E.E.E. and the Directors on the Network announced that they are considering this possibility. Catalonia's on. And in the state class, CEAPA (Confederacila de Associines de Padres de Madres de Alumnos y Alumnas de la Escuela Pública), has made the same proposal, and thus we met yesterday in the media. To you, chief physician, the Board of Education, we ask you to take this road. To avoid this examination is of no consequence, either academic or administrative, you have also said. If, then, the families should adopt this decision, it would have no effect on any one, but the students and professionals are protected. So we confirm that in this ball of third-rate diagnostic evaluation we agree with the appeal to Lomce's application. As we have always said, everyone who chooses to defend our education and inconsequentities will be with the Basque Country and their companions. And these families will be close to the head of the Board of Education if they make that decision?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u113	I'm running the walk. It's a fundamental law, and as a administration, we have to follow the law. But we've always said that we protect and improve our educational system, and that's what we're talking about. Not what you say. We, too, protect our educational system. It looks like everything's useful at the time of the election. Don't confuse me, please. You're mixing diagnostic evaluations and realides, and deliberately. The purpose of the Ministry is control, yes, control of the autonomy community, and control of the academic files of the students. That's why we're against it. But the third and sixth class are diagnosis of evaluation, so the end of these evaluations is to get information to improve the education system, and they have no influence on the student's academic file. Don't confuse me, please. The evaluation which we plan, as to what you have here stated, accords with the plan which we propose in the decree of our curriculum, and with the diagnosis of evaluation we now do. It has nothing to do with rebalida. That must be very clear. I'm sure you're making fun of me. He'll always do for students' interests. He won't do anything wrong, that's never been our style. The laws, for the sake of the students, have been in favour of our education system, and we shall continue to act. That's why we're just going to use the third class of education you're asking me to use it only for the improvement of the system, which is a diagnosis. It accords with the process of education, and the distribution of pedagogical education. It'll be a test designed by us. Instead of doing things in any way, we tried to do a test in advance, and that's where the test comes from. And the results of this experience can be considered as the basis for the evacuation of 2015-2016. At that moment, the evagnostic evaluation test can be opened to all the third-rate students of the First Education. As I was saying, the pilot test that we will conduct this year conditions the proper design of the evaluation to be carried out in the third of Primary in the next courses. This test will have the following characteristics: piloting in thirty centres; in terms of evaluable competences, the test will be carried out in five competencies (competence in Spanish language communication, language communication in Basque, competence in English language communication, mathematics and scientific). For us, it is a very important aspect for this Government to make assessments a tool that must be used to improve and measure all competencies, and that is why we are simply using this diagnostic assessment. First a pilot test to fit it, and then see exactly how it should be done, but always with the same goal: improve the education system. And I don't think it's anything new, because diagnostic evaluation is being done, and there's no one thinking against it. And now yes, if there's a small change, it seems to be. Let us not mix diagnostic evaluation to improve the system with some revalidations that the ministry is proposing. Here, as I said, the final assessments that the central government intends to impose on us clearly invade autonomous competences in the field of education, with a centralized and exclusive objective, and reduce the role of these to mere vigilance. The Spanish Government is exclusively and exclusively responsible for determining the content of the subjects of the education professionals to be taught, when this is a subject that requires the participation of the autonomous governments, and it is also Madrid which regulates the external evaluation tests of the final student of ESO and Baccalaureate, while Euskadi is relegated to the mere execution of the criteria laid down by the Spanish Government. This is what we're talking about and this is what we're all against, and you're mixing it with diagnostic evaluation, you're mixing it with the measures we're trying to put in to improve our system, and all in order to confuse the educational community. That's why, Mrs. Arrido, as I said at first, we're against what the Ministry proposes, we've always said. And we will use all the tools in our power to protect our own education system and our students against the centralized education that they want to impose on us from Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interression, myria Llanos Gómez, a member of the Basque Groups of Popula, a member of the Security Department, an organization of the Border, and a plan of 2016 planets." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Well, when the new structure of the department and the Horizon 2016 plan were presented – which, by the way, was presented earlier to the media than to this Parliament or to the stakeholders themselves – it was pointed out that the model was based on mission, vision and values; that this plan revolved around four axes, and that values should be closeness, trust, commitment, team and evolution. Some of those values I think the Ertzaintza had for a long time, but, well, anyway. What was at issue, I believe, and we said at the time, was that the plan would serve the objective of serving the security of Basque citizens. This group showed at that time that it was good to want to achieve better citizen care and security, investigation, police intelligence, prevention and protection. It was good, but these goals have not been achieved. The ways of proceeding can be perfected, I can agree with that, can be changed, but whenever those changes are to improve. And it always gets better from consensus. It is important that the changes be part of and taken over by those who ultimately have to implement them. Changes should take into account the opinion and input of the basic actors, of whom the plan will be developed, because in this way their involvement would be greater, but that has not been possible. No contributions were collected, even the legitimacy to make them to the Ertzaintza unions has been denied, because they don't have to talk about organization. The organization belongs exclusively to you, they say. And what they have done is impose the plan, as on so many other occasions. And even though they said it was a dynamic plan, which might make you think that if it doesn't work you can change, far from it, they do absolutely nothing. Because they are showing once again that dialogueal attitude wherever there are them, counselor, yours and your department, and they have ignored all the dysfunctions that the unions, agents and the citizens themselves have denounced as having the plan. As I said, the aim of the plan should be Basque citizenship and take into account the agents who have to implement it, but it has become absolutely the opposite: it is totally away from both the citizens and the agents, and it has a purely economic and advertising mission. It was also imposed, hasty and improvised, and insufficient resources have been provided. When it was launched, the job relationship was not configured (it was therefore not known what functions were performed by the ertzainas that were part of the different units), but even so, without this knowledge, units were disappeared to strengthen citizen security, the presence on the street. It is therefore necessary, Commissioner, to reconsider, at least to introduce its amendments, although for some it would even be necessary to replace it in full. In June last year the Ertzaintza trade unions appeared in this House. All of them, all of them criticized the plan, and showed that the changes it had brought, the new structure, far from improving the action of the Ertzaintza, what it had done was to make it worse. You, Madam Councillor, considered at that time that the criticisms of the trade unions had only one reason, which was the trade union elections to be held. It was to be assumed – I told you then – that once the trade union elections were held, social peace would come and the criticism of the trade unions would cease. On the contrary, Madam Counsellor, trade union elections have arrived, and, far from resolving the employment situation, you have all trade unions on the ground of war every Friday and every day making demonstrations. You have achieved something very difficult, Madam Counsellor, which is union unanimity, that all unions join together to denounce the disastrous management you are doing in something as important as our Ertzaintza. And it is a shame, Madam Counsellor, that I cannot blame the Madrid Government for this. Although everything will go away, I'm about to see that everything will go away. Because this very week he has again shown that ever-several hurtful and complaining attitude, of permanent complaint and complaint, when what should be done is to respond to the complaints made to him here. The dysfunctions that your department, in relation to the measures to be taken with jihadist terrorism – I myself denounced in this House – is trying to impute to the Madrid government. It is shameful, Madam Councillor, shameful and absolutely irresponsible, that you do not mind generating alarms just to charge against the central government, and it is shameful and absolutely irresponsible that on an issue such as this one you doubt that the information is not transmitted. But, as I told you, when the unions presented themselves in this House, they reflected on many issues. They pointed out that this claim to gain in close proximity had not been achieved, but that at the moment there are aspects in which in the Ertzaintza this proximity has been lost, and they set as an example the shared management, which from this group also raised many doubts. It's a cut where you don't have to cut, in the citizen's attention. It's a covert unification. The unions pointed out that their objective was purely economic, and that, far from improving service, there had been a deficit of service and service to citizens. As far as research was concerned, everyone agreed that it needed to be improved, that it needed to be brought back to bear more, and that part of that improvement could come from training, training and the provision of more personal and material resources. Previously the research system was 70 % to 30 % (i.e. 70 % public attention, 30 % case investigation). What they did was the other way around, they did the other way around, which leads to the need to change the schedule agents and change the working conditions, with loss of pay. Loss of pay, yes, because in many cases that meant – I suppose you know it – that basic agents often agree to save travel expenses. And, of course, the basic agents don't have diets. In 2013, without the use of official cars, 1 million euros spent the department on diets of the commanders; diets that are outstanding and that are not declared to the Treasury. And that has led to the Director of Human Resources having to testify in a court in Bilbao as accused. What are you going to do about it, counselor? Are you going to modify the spare system of the controls? Following the investigation, people have been taken away from the public, and this implies that complainants have to wait a long time to file a complaint, and sometimes they are told to come back the next day. Do you think that's normal, Counselor?Do you think it's normal that someone who's going to report a crime he's been victim of, with what that supposes, is said to be "No people, you come back tomorrow"? It takes away public attention for research, and they are not given any tools to do the research. With regard to prevention, it is not that it has not improved, it is quite the opposite, Madam Counsellor: it has been a failure. At the moment, police stations have fewer agents, prevention is carried out with uniformed and non-standardized patrols, and non-standardized patrols have been greatly reduced. Because what was wanted was to get a uniformed presence on the street, and this has been done at the expense of removing the unmanned personnel, which was a great support. And it may be true that uniformed personnel are seen and that this can help generate a sense of security, but, as has been said in this Parliament, it is hardly worth seeing twenty times a patrol, if you have been robbed around the corner. Above the image has to be the effectiveness, and that effectiveness at this time many question it. There are uniformed patrols, yes, but why? Because they see more. Because they see more. Because that's your only obsession, the only obsession of your department, counselor, the image, the image and the image. That's why they also have to wear the rotarys on, even if it's sometimes counterproductive. That's at least what they said here. If it's not true, you're telling me it's not true, you tell it here today. Do you know what it's called? Diving with buoy. Diving with buoy. And what happens is that in this case the buoy is seen by the criminals. But that seems, as I say to you, to make no difference, because, of course, the image and the statistics, always the statistics of making meaningless controls, of seeing the agents, in the ways of recording the facts that are denounced..., all so long as the statistics and the image are not worsened. We will also refer to the Mobile Brigade, which is the specialized body that has to take charge of law and order and prevent serious incidents and tackle disturbances if there are any. Sometimes, when requested for an event, two vans are sent (i.e. sixteen agents), and sometimes no more is sent, it is true, for purely economic or political reasons, but sometimes because there is no more. Because there's no more, because the Mobile Brigade is in charge right now of making prisoner transfers. Previously, there were units in the three police stations where the prisons were based. Not now, now the Iurreta-based Mobile Brigade does, which means an increase in time and a misconception, and then I can give more data about it. Of course, the data indicate that the criticisms were right. The complaints have increased in this year 2014, and if all the unions criticise with a unanimity that removes the stupefaction, counselor, do you not intend to modify the plan at once to meet your objectives?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u116	Thank you, Miss Llanos. In reply, Mrs. Heeddia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, congressmen. I have to confess, Mrs. Llanos, that I'm surprised. Surprised, because I don't know if I was listening to a MP from the People's Party or a union representative, curiously. That is also an achievement of this Government: that a representative of the People's Party, with the causes they have in the labour cuts, is here flying the trade union flag. But, well, things of life. You take time with this canteen that in the Ertzaintza everything is worse (reindeer insecurity, chaos...), and by that way you have also added to the disqualification of the strategic plan and to demand withdrawal with fat brush, without nuances. Curious. It is the union mantra that allows it to criticize the government, but apparently it is more interested to generate a negative state of opinion towards the Ertzaintza than to recognize that for example we have 4,588 new candidates to the 250 places of promotion number 25, more than 4,500 people who are already preparing with illusion and that will be examined next June 6th. Young boys and girls who are going to opt for the selection process to access something that for them and they is an illusion, working in Ertzaintza. An illusion, Mrs. Llanos. I hope that the Ministry of Finance will not shut down unilaterally by restricting the number of places and leaving on wet paper what the Security Board in its day agreed bilaterally. The process of generational renewal of the Ertzaintza responds, as you well know, and on more than one occasion has also expressed agreement, to the need to keep the current number of ertzainas in service, and is an obligation that we must not postpone and much less elude. Instead of focusing on trade union slogans based on the no for the no, I could recognize, Mrs Llanos, as citizens do in the latest survey that reflects the Euskobarometer, which said that 61% of respondents approve of Ertzaintza, approve of its ways of acting and its services, or that here, in Euskadi, only two out of every hundred people place security among the three problems that concern them most, which makes it clear to me that the perception of security of our citizens is now better than in the past. Or recognize, as even private entities have done, that in Euskadi it is safe to live. Fortunately, we have positive data from which we are happy. Look, in fact, this first quarter of 2015, once again, the number of crimes and faults has fallen from the same date in 2014, and the trend is down, the trend is getting stronger. We have 6.08 % less crimes and faults than in the same period from January to March 2014. We barely exceeded the rate of 39 crimes and faults per thousand inhabitants. Euskadi, as I said, is a reasonably safe country, and it is fair to recognize it, and to recognize the merit of the people who work for it to be so. And in this the Ertzaintza and the Ertzain have a responsibility and merit that we must recognize, but we must also recognize the value and development of the strategic plan for achieving these results and objectives. Citizens do, Mrs. Llanos. I invite you, for example, to read some of the testimonies of the victims, which have been left in the last report of the Bizkaia Gender Violence Observatory, and I will read to you textually: "Most of the women interviewed make a very positive assessment of the performance of the Ertzaintza, both during the complaint procedure and in the monitoring and protection process". And in the same report, other women highlight, in relation to the attention they receive, the quality of the information, the good treatment they receive, and the protection offered on the day they filed the complaint. But it is that the surveys carried out in the Ertzaintza, both at the time of filing the complaint and six months later (because we do surveys, we evaluate ourselves), in both cases reflect that the degree of satisfaction is high, with average scores higher than 8.5 out of 10. Evaluations also that are maintained over time, in those surveys that we have been conducting since 2012, 2013, 2014... You have also made reference here to the increase in complaints from citizens. Indeed, we have recently referred Ekinbide's report to Parliament, and the reality is that in 2014 there were 388 complaints, a little more than one complaint per day: 388 complaints out of a total of more than 86,000 complaints processed. Get to the point, Mrs. Llanos. We have forty-one public care centers throughout the geography of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in 2014 we answered and recorded more than 86,000 complaints, and complained about the service 383 people. And, if that is more than reasonable, in that comparison between complaints processed and complaints received, it becomes insignificant in relation to the hundreds of thousands of services that the Ertzaintza, which the and the inertzainas offer every day. The complaints, in any case, are many or few, are important, and serve us to improve. We take care of them, study them, and they serve us to improve. But to alarm unnecessarily, if there is no objective data, Mrs Llanos, no. I will not say that we are absolutely exemplary, of course not. We have a sense of self-criticism. And we have a lot to improve and we're doing it, and we work on that every day, evaluating each of the performances. But using that data to discredit a service or a whole strategic plan is out absolutely... And it is strange that all this does not make you think and recognize that there are things that Ertzaintza is doing well, that are doing well; that the strategic plan, in terms of action and transformation, was also born within Ertzaintza itself, which was born of an internal reflection, and that from that first moment on the Ertzaintza worked, and continues to do so, to update, rationalize and adapt organizational structures and strategic objectives to the new times, to the times we are living today in terms of the needs and demands of Basque society. And at this point we are no longer talking about analysis and strategic reflection; we are talking about achievements, actions and initiatives that are already a fact, a reality, of realities that thanks to daily work today work better than before. I feel that in this case the People's Party has also aligned itself with the agrarians, with the people who are shielding themselves from global disqualification, and that they do not want to see anything positive where others see opportunity to work. Unless, Mrs Llanos, with this negative assessment of the strategic plan of the Ertzaintza Horizonte 2016, you too are aligned – as I have seen that this is the case – with the economic and labour demands of the Ertzaintza unions, that is, with the protest against the cuts that have been imposed for a long time by the Madrid government. Yes, Mrs. Llanos, from the Madrid government. You have come to say on some occasion that you have seen the Ertzaintza raised in arms, and you have also come to say that the Ertzaintza is questioned not only by the People's Party, but also by the trade unions. It would be well, first of all, that it did not frivolize, that it did not mix so lightly its need to criticize this Government with the disqualification of the institution, of the Ertzaintza. Those who are developing the strategic plan of the Ertzaintza Horizonte 2016 are ertzainas. They are ertzainas, and their work deserves consideration from all of us. Secondly, it would be good if you did not forget, Mrs Llanos, as I have already said, that much of these complaints from the ERTZAINAS and the ERTZAINAS, from those complaints that the unions have collected, have to do precisely with those labour measures adopted by the Government of the People's Party itself, which seems to have been permanently forgotten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u118	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Look, counselor, I'm not surprised at anything you've told me. Almost nothing. Not even the trade unions, because I already know that in your department they say that I am the person who is involved in the trade unions in this House, and I know that comes from your own department. And I don't care exactly. And don't tell me about the cuts, because you had a sentence that allowed you not to make certain cuts here, and you appealed it. If they cared so much about those cuts, if they didn't want to make those cuts, they wouldn't have appealed the sentence and obeyed it! But it seemed phenomenal to them. And you have gone far beyond cuts, far beyond what state legislation could impose. You've turned it around. I'm not frivolous! It is that here it has been described by some, as by the unions, I say to you, in a unanimity, which has brought chaos, disorganization, which is a demeanor, which is a failure. Some called it the 2016 abyss. I won't go that far, but when all the unions are saying it... There was even an agent who said that in his thirty years within the Ertzaintza he had not experienced an equal situation. Look, there's a phrase that the Ertzaintza agents say, which is that every interior counselor does good to the previous one. Well, you've made them all good at the same time. All at once. And of course I'll do the criticism, but not one of you. They don't do self-criticism! Don't come here saying you're self-criticizing, because you don't do any. Because it happened from the Bilbao forum, and for you the performance was exemplary, and it was a veritable misconception. And they keep saying it's exemplary. How will it be improved, if one does not self-criticize at all? And I told her. He has obviously not answered anything to me, and we will ask ourselves the question specifically: neither to jihadist terrorism, nor of course to what they are going to do, if they are going to change the bonuses paid to the commanders. But I'm going to tell you one thing. I do not allow you – and I have told you on many occasions –... I do not allow you to question the commitment of this group to the Ertzaintza which are the agents. Not with you, not with the address of the Ertzaintza. Not at all. It just has nothing to do with it. Nothing to see! And don't tell me that they're free-standing, free-standing and politically appointed. Of course the Ertzaintza agents do a very good job, despite being as they are! Of course they do! And he's talking about the complaints, about 31%. And you know why there's no more? Because more is prevented, because it is not precisely easy for agents to inform citizens of how they can lodge a complaint. That's why there's no more. If not, there would be plenty more. Because it's not normal to make a person... But if you even told me, "If it doesn't matter to file the complaint the next day, if the important thing is to make it known that there has been a crime"! Of course, it is important to file the complaint, because the person who has suffered a crime wants to get rid of that feeling as soon as possible. And the discharge of that feeling is achieved by putting the complaint immediately, not returning the next day, because in many cases not even the return the next day takes place. And that's to be proud of? Really, Counselor? Is that to say that everything works wonderfully? And don't tell me that Ertzaintza works for the Horizon 2016 plan. The Ertzaintza is working right now because of the professionalism of its agents, because the organization you have put it all up. What about the Mobile Brigade? Do you think it's normal to have to make four hundred kilometres, and sometimes replace one patrol with another, to move a prisoner, when they used to travel forty miles? And then again with an aggravating: that sometimes, as you can and cannot, because the need for the transfer is urgent, you have to resort to people who are not specialized in the police station itself. And that works great. Or the Rescue Unit, which you said that from now on the rescues had to be carried out in the morning and in the afternoon, because if they were carried out at night, then, look, let them rescue themselves. That's also... come on, a wonderful approach. Look, counselor, I am not frivolous, nor am I a trade union representative, but it is true that the information about what works is given by the trade unions, which of course have the right to make their labour claims. Or are they not entitled to make their labour and economic claims? But they give information on how Ertzaintza works. But also agents who are not unionized, who went to meetings that have been held and showed that the Ertzaintza was operating absolutely disastrously. And since you seem like a lot of self-criticism, but you don't have...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u120	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Lady Beltrán de Heredia, your word is to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u121	Thank you. I insist, Mrs Llanos, you cannot blow and sip at the same time. Definitely, the strategic plan of the Ertzaintza Horizonte 2016 is not as disastrous as it is for you to get your hands on your head. I'm sure it's better, and we're on it. In any case, it has served us to establish a more effective and efficient structure of Ertzaintza, for citizen protection, criminal investigation and intelligence. We have a service to streamline the management of medium-sized police stations that are geographically close, thus reducing the administrative burden and making more operational. The strategic plan of the Ertzaintza Horizonte 2016 has served us to dimension it the Mobile Brigade, to adapt to the new times, to the current needs, to review its operation, to test new tactics, and to equip it with new and modern elements of protection. It has served us to set up new case investigation structures, improving methods and forms of work from the basis of the same eye inspections. It is helping us to intensify preventive and training work through educational outreach programmes in schools and with vulnerable groups. It is being an effective tool to establish new lines of action in the treatment of new forms of crime, such as cybercrime, and in the management of emerging dangers, such as radical Islamism. To associate the concern for the safety of ertzains and ertzains, their own safety, is also part of the training principles, of the usual instruction, in each and every one of the operations in which they participate. They have all openly acknowledged that, among the different police forces, for example, existing in the Spanish State, it is precisely in the Ertzaintza where many of the security measures that are required to be implemented and now extended to other bodies were already commonplace. And that's the reality, Mrs. Llanos. We start from a consolidated experience, and there is no reason for that to stop. And that is also why we do not want to be robbed or limited by any operational capacity that would allow us to act as an integral police force in everything that affects the security of Euskadi. That is why we demand that the Ertzaintza not be treated as an auxiliary or second-hand police force. And in this, Mrs. Llanos, you can't sip and blow at the same time. We cannot ask for more security, better security management, and at the same time save information or prevent access to decision-making bodies, bodies where it is shared and where everything that has to do with security, with the risks of insecurity, comes from wherever they come from. And that is what we reproach the People's Party for in its responsibilities as a government. This strategic plan is being effective in enhancing collaboration with local police and in coordinating information and media. It has served us, in short, for what can be the subject of internal reflection of the Ertzaintza itself, a service of quality with more presence in the street, more prone to communication, and to increase the degree of social recognition. Today the strategic plan of the Ertzaintza Horizon 2016 is the practical materialization of the improvements we have just mentioned and of many others that Ertzaintza itself has considered necessary to adapt to today and to grow tomorrow. Look, a union representative in this very Parliament said: "The problem we have is that we have an inertia, and changing inertia is very difficult, difficult and painful. And in the field of work too, because there are people who have become accustomed to working in one way and do not want to do it in another." That was said by a trade union representative in this Parliament. The strategic plan of the Ertzaintza is already the Ertzaintza of today, the Ertzaintza that is building its future. It is now up to us to consolidate and strengthen it. And that is the challenge, Mrs. Llanos, that we are not going to give up and that I would like to share with you, and find you on this same path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u122	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The 18th point in the subject list: "Appeal, members of the Ubeka Unaza and the EH Collectors to the head of the Medical Department, in relation to the regulating and approximating employment of the Osa. " Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u123	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Darpón, see if you've been thinking about this since morning and give me another answer. The axis of membership, the purpose and priority should be people. And I'm saying hypothetically. In hypothetical, because I don't know if that's what this government is. You say a lot, Mr. Darpón, that people are in the centre, but we don't really know, seeing the everyday, we don't know what that center means. What I have to tell you is that you don't have people to be nice to. The greatest treasure, the structure eye, the most important machinery, are people. We need people, we need workers to deal with people, patients, patients, to take care of them, because otherwise it's impossible to provide them with health. We can have the best machinery in the world, the best infrastructure, but if we don't have people, how can we treat people? How do we get a quality service? It's impossible. And, unfortunately, Osacy's all over the year for the minimum. During these days, workers fighting for the future of the Osacy, for a public health system of quality, for the exercise of their rights, for the exercise of the right of strike, have difficulty, because they are in minimum for the whole year. For example, the number of the workers who are working for the entire year in hospitals is the same as the number of minimum workers. And what's worse, those who are called peonadas in a hospital have been established as minimum. We've still been born to see eleven! Really, terrible. Besides, the temporaryment of the job is enormous, and the Department of Health admits it. The provisionality is over 30%. If we see the data, we can see clearly that the records are not that of the Basque Country, the data belongs to the Osar and the Medical Department. The Health Department issued a solution for the exportation plan of the Osa. 7807 workers. And if we check out the data, we're working on February 30.526 people. And if we check on nomines, the data changes: there are more longings. To be more specific, 35.293 nomina. All this, in the whole course of action, but in the data, it is evident that the whole course of action is descending, and that the fractions, partial ones, are rising. So what we're looking at is that the conditions of work have been terribly wrong, that the budget is going up, that the judjuations are used to annoy jobs, that replacements are not met with. So what we have before us is an intolerable state, if we wish to preserve or improve the quality of the member in years, because there is always something to be cured. But this time we're at a reflex point. But it must be said that, notwithstanding this situation, many of the citizens, and in general, are well provided for by workers. Imagine what the situation is, what is almost impossible has been accomplished in the Osapartics to agree on all the unions. That's what you've done, agree to all the unions. And in front of that, this medical department ought to do something, he should break up his one-sided behavior. The order which was admitted five months ago in this legislature has been obtained, and that is where the proposals are received. And what we want to know today is what are the plans of the Medical Department about what we've got here. I'll remember what was approved. It was allowed to negotiate in the literary table, the other in order to recover the job that had been destroyed for the past few years, and make a public offering that will guarantee the stability of the planet. A hundred per cent of the coverage of death, of permanent and legal disability. Looking at the medium and length of time, to make a plan, to ensure that one of the other is a rhulebo, and there is nothing but to see how much the old age of the map is in, and where it will settle to 2018. 2000. It was the year of this continental spirit, among other things, of the 35 hours of labour, which belongs not only to you, but to the whole administration. The establishment of substitutions from the first day, because from the first day there are no substitutions established. To examine the situation of temporary employment, and to take measures in front of it. So, Mr. Darpón, we want to know what plans you have in front of this proposal and in front of the parliamentary commission. And I hope it's not the same answer as this morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. I'm sure he's got the word. Mr. Darpón.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u125	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon to all. Ubera andrea, it has been hard for you to get to the question you asked me, and not to review the different aspects of your opinion with regard to the strike – which seems to have not been very much shared by the workers – or with regard to the health system, which seems not to be much shared by the citizens either. But it will allow me to focus on what I had asked myself, which is what the Health Department's intentions are in relation to the compromise amendment adopted last October in this House, on the guarantee and offer of quality employment in Osakidetza. "But you must forgive me, for I will not answer you, though you ask me to do so. I'll tell you what to do. My answer will be based on the tangible steps that, since the date of adoption of the above-mentioned amendment, on 30 October, have been added to those which, as you know, although you do not like it, are giving the Government in this direction. Yes, before this text was accepted, and since it was accepted, this government has taken several steps to get an agreement in the work. The first point of the transaction was: "Negotiate and agree at the sectoral table the human resources adequacy in Osakidetza to ensure universal, equitable and quality health care, taking as many decisions as necessary, including the call for a public offer of employment". Precisely, Mrs Ubera, that very month of October Osakidetza had already presented at the sectoral table a public offer of employment for 2014 and 2015, a file of enlargement of staff, and measures to increase the appointments of interim. The government, the Department of Health and Osakidetza, then like now, bet on employment stability, and the proof is that the offer that is on the table is more than 2,000 places between the 2014 and 2015 OPEs and the one offered for 2016. An effort that has not been corresponded from the union side, that you apparently seem so well to you, that you have not moved from maximalistic positions and not feasible with the law in hand, as you very well know. And it will not have been because there was no attempt to negotiate at the multiple meetings and meetings held, the last Monday, without any response: unions that want to talk about the EPO in private, and that at the sectoral table reject the offer. Nevertheless, we continue to bet on the quality of health care, on improving working conditions and on employment stability. And because it's an application to guarantee universal health support, you're sure there's no doubt that we're taking the rest of the people without exception. I will also remind you, Mrs Ubera, since the first point in the compromise was about universality, that (not me) the European Committee on Social Rights in its last report, in which it highlighted specific violations in the European Social Charter in the Spanish State, concluded that the benefits are only adequate, in the State, in the field of universality, in Euskadi and in Navarre. As you can see, I do not say this: the European Committee of Social Rights says so. Universality, the quality of service, and equity, are the principles that command Osacin. We do every day for these fundamental principles, and these are the clear means of the working of the medical system of eroscals. With regard to the second point, to open the way for an increase in replacement rates which guarantee the coverage of retirement, permanent incapacity or death, I will tell you that the replacement rates of the OPE have a limit, unfortunately, defined by basic legislation. You all know that it is not a matter for this Government, and that this Government does not agree with it. The current rate of relocation is ordered from the Madrid government. We will convene a public job offer with the places that can be offered with legal certainty. We are not here to make propaganda: the squares are called that it will be possible to cover without interference or legal obstacles. The government has an obligation to be responsible, and – I am going to say this loud and clear – we are not going to run the risk of starting a process that does not have full assurance of completion, however well it should be said that we are going to call 3,000 places. We're going to summon those who are going to have legal certainty. As for the third point of the amendment, the elaboration of a medium- and long-term employment plan, you can say, Mrs Ubera, that Osakidetza already has the Human Resources Reorder Plan 2014-2016, negotiated and signed with the representation of the Euskadi Medical Union, which, given its interest in the unions, I understand that it will not seem negligible to you. Thus, the staffing needs have been analysed, and in fact another of the offers transferred to the sectoral table is a file of enlargement of structural staff. The fourth point reflects the recovery of the spirit of agreement and consensus of the year 2000, which lost 35 hours. This is something that we do not think should be negotiated specifically for Osakidetza, and therefore not at the sectoral table. And when we talk about daytime, we think it should be for all the employees of the administration. The 35-hour day, we have said it many times, is not a sectoral issue, and I understand that you are not claiming it for Osakidetza alone. This is an issue that needs to be raised consistently at the general table. On the other hand, as you very well reminded me, the 35-hour working day was implemented by a government of the Basque Nationalist Party. They blew other economic winds in Euskadi, but probably, if you had been in Parliament at that time, you would have also found glue to that agreement that we achieved. I don't have the slightest doubt. On the implementation of employment promotion measures (fifth point), already in February the Osakidetza management presented an offer at the sectoral table, and remains open for negotiation. But, well, Mrs. Ubera, do you know of any institution, council or outlaw parliament, or dependent entity, that replaces one hundred percent of absences from the very first moment? Tell me. I'll go do a study to see if we can do it. Perhaps the social residences agreed by the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council replace all absences for any reason and of all workers? Because social services are a lot like the health care system. It is true that there are certain peculiarities of health to be considered. But, well, from the Osakidetza Department of Assistance a very concrete offer has been brought to the sectoral table, committing itself, in the area of primary care, to covering those personnel who have allocated the maximum amount of health cards, and in the hospital field there have been improvements in the coverage of all staff on shift, in addition to the staff of the special services (emergencies, intensive care, neonatal units, operating rooms, endoscopy rooms and day hospitals). I suppose you know the terms of the offer, but I wanted to reschedule them so that the members of this House also know them and thus value the immobilism of Osakidetza that the unions say we have. Finally, and in reference to the sixth and final point of the transaction, which calls for the analysis of situations of possible employment in order to transform them into structural ones, I must say that Osakidetza is assessing the different situations of eventual employment. Our commitment is to continue to meet the needs of staff through the incorporation of in-house professionals, covering the vacancies that are taking place until the corresponding periodic processes of job consolidation. I'm done. I think I've mentioned at least the essentials. The essential thing is that I stress again, not only our purposes and intentions, but what we have done, following the recommendations of this House, to continue to move forward and to preserve the quality public health system enjoyed by Basques and Basques. And about the allusions I have made to the subject of the strike, I will tell you that the terrible minimums that have been suffered in Osakidetza to this day are those of a holiday, where no operating room, no consultation, or primary care centres are open. And you know him, because Osakidetza doesn't dictate them. No overtime has been done, but, of course, the afternoon activity that was organized and that it is up to the workers to decide whether they want to perform it or not has not been suspended. And then the situation of Osakidetza is not unsustainable. It is shouted out by the citizens and shouted out by the majority of workers who have not joined the conflict today. But we must also distinguish between what the citizens think, what the workers think and what the unions think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u126	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u127	I'm sorry I didn't get the answer I expected. Unfortunately, from a citizen's point of view, universality, quality, and equity are corrupt. And that's what you're doing. You're doing it, for instance, for all the year in the hospitals and hospitals for the minimum, because that's a reality. It's just passing through any hospital to see what's the situation. You said actions, you're doing actions. What action? All you're doing is hypocrisy, manipulation and postrealization. That's all we're seeing. And today we want to ask you only one thing: To quit appearances and to disguise reality and to play with courage, because at this moment we need courage to face the situation we have to do. Of course, that's not just what comes from the Medical Department. We have a concrete situation, and that requires courage to play, if we really want to bet on the part of the Osar, of course if we want to bet on people, both for workers and members of the Osar. Look, the health Department called OPEa isn't making 2,000 jobs, it's not for the internal projection of 540 jobs (so it's not for the new jobs) and the other 540 new jobs. So, about a thousand (a thousand is not available), a thousand jobs. And the rest of the thousand are off the phone. They're not called! You have mentioned, perhaps, that there will be a chance of calling him in 2016. So don't handle it. And less propaganda and more action. That's reality, and that's what you've agreed to with the unions. And you do the same with so many things: with the waited, etc., etc., etc. So what we need here is to know reality in the eyes of workers and in the eyes of unions, both in the respect of citizens and in the direction of the happy, in order to face all the problems and situations they are in. And no one here has absolute truth, but we'll have to do something about our situation. And as for the psychotic Legisis, we fill it here when we want to, when we don't, we don't fill it and negotiate whenever we like, just as it has happened with the edge. With the edge of the OPE there was no problem: He negotiated with Madrid and nothing happened. So why doesn't he negotiate in other areas? Prioritys, priorities. And here it is evident what are the prerogatives of this government. You have mentioned the plan of human resources which was achieved by the Medical Union. Just got a partial agreement to open the door after 67 years of work. Just to get the Rélebo contra-relational. So let's be serious. And we can talk a long time about the provisionalness of this legislature in order to make steps about it, to make transparency, to make a list of propositions in a different manner. And memberhood can't go on living on incomes. We're in a revolution. And if we don't deal with the problem, the next generation will pay. And membership ceases to be what it has been. So it's up to you. Or do you have another plan for Osac? What's your plan? Let's see if you can get this straight. And we have two doors: one is the door of universality, equity, and quality, in order to strengthen the public system in order to maintain the maintenance of Osacy; and the other is the door of privatisation, the corruption of quality, the community of second rank. So you have to choose which doors you open. We have no doubt what our example is, and that is why we try to place our proposals on the table. We understand that we do not agree with all the proposals, but, well, we may perhaps have a middle course or a chance of getting ahead. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u129	Look, Mrs. Ubera, the universality of the system I do not judge. I have given you an appointment from the Commission on Human Rights of the European Union. But, apparently, in the universality, quality and fairness of the system to ask we have a thermometer called Ubera. I didn't know, it was a novelty. I hope that the citizens will judge me, and in the previous court they put us. Let's see, look, are we talking about the degree of work conflict, what you've come to talk about, or the quality of service? The transactional was talking about quality, but, well, what is your real concern?, what is your real intention? But, well, if you want us to talk about the quality of health services, we'll talk. And quality of health services are health results, Mrs. Ubera, patient satisfaction (not yours, which already tells us every day, but that of the street), accessibility, information, treatment, facility comfort, costs, although you don't like... What's worrying you? The service which the member offers to the society of euscals, or the mixed and unfounded working habits of work? I don't know what interest you really are in this matter. We are told about workdays and wages, two concepts – and I repeat this again – in which Osakidetza must be in solidarity with all the workers of the Basque Administration. Look, Mrs. Ubera, does today's day and salary justify a strike exclusively in Osakidetza? Do you think so? Do you know of any sector in which less than 1,614 hours are worked in Euskadi? Do you know of any other health services in any autonomous community where 1,614 hours are worked? Look, in Navarra, in La Rioja, in Cantabria, in Treviño, they have 1,650 hours, 36 hours more, one more work week a year, and today they are working without any conflict. And, more curiously, with the same unions, Mrs Ubera, with ELA and LAB in Navarra. And we do not think that the professionals of Osakidetza are privileged, which I have never said, but we are sure that they are engaged workers, but they understand better than you the current situation, and every day they take steps to maintain the service, with the unions and without them. 2,000 lanpostuko lan-eskaintza publikoa era aipatu duzu. Ez omen of nahikoa. Eta berriro diot, are eta zuzenago, can places be taken in the OPE beyond the replacement rate with security and guarantees? Look, I don't think so, at least when we talk about a responsible government. It seems that what you're looking for is that we take 4,000 seats and stop the OPE for everyone, but we're not about the work. And, in passing, it would not be wrong to know when the People's Party is going to remove the inherited roof, curiously, as Mrs Roncal told me this morning, of the socialist opponents. With regard to professional development, he has offered to regain his professional career since October 2015. By the way, it should be remembered: as you know, ELA and LAB have always been against the development model. In fact, they didn't sign it in their day. Replacements. They're asking us for a hundred percent replacements for all positions and from day one. Again, it is true that health care has special and different connotations, but tell me, ma'am, is there any other administration in Euskadi, ruled by your party or by any other, that replaces 100 percent of any job from day one? Bildu, who manages the social services concert in Gipuzkoa, demands this percentage of replacement for the companies that provide the services? Set an example, see if we learn! I could go on, but time gives what it gives. What are we talking about, about work conflicts or the quality of service? If you are concerned about that second, my answer will leave you calm because the quality of the service Osarides offers is genuine, and it will be so again. And I would like to thank you for the question today so that I can explain the offer at the sectoral table, which has been very important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u130	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, "Myria Llanos Gómez, the member of the Popula team, made for the head physician of the Medical Department, the center of speciality." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u131	Thank you again, Madam President, and good morning to you all again. The Zalla district hospital should have been built by this year 2015, and it is a long-standing claim. At this time, the health centre of Zalla also serves not only the entire population of the Encartaciones, but also the neighbors of other provinces such as Cantabria, Burgos or Álava. That is, a total of 30,000 people receive the services of Osakidetza in the Zalla outpatient clinic. The consistory, in its desire to materialize the construction of this center, yielded a plot of 5,000 square meters in the year 2008, which has recently been recovered by the city council itself for non-compliance with the conditions of the free assignment. The Basque Government has also called for a project for the construction of this high-resolution hospital for half a million euros, which, regrettably, and on the basis of what has happened, will be wasted at least in the short and medium term. Last week itself, and on numerous occasions, we have denounced the abandonment of the Encartaciones, such as the absence of a bus line that one directly with Cruces, we did last week with URA, and we also want to denounce it in relation to this hospital, with this health endowment. That is why, Mr Darpón, we would like to hear from you a budgetary commitment and the setting of a deadline for the implementation of this allocation, since it was not achieved by the City of Zalla, which proposed a joint declaration, a timetable and a budget allocation, but from Osakidetza it was not wanted. I will give you the benefit of the doubt, Mr Darpón, and that is why I ask you what deadlines you run in your department, and whether you are willing to express a budgetary commitment to make Zalla's specialty centre a reality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u132	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners. Mrs Llanos, as you are sure you know, was in the distant 2007 when the possibility of expanding services and building a new health centre in Zalla was first raised, curiously for us too. Since then, many important social, economic and health changes have taken place in our society and also in the Enkarterri region. Some in a negative sense, such as the economic crisis, but there have also been positive ones, such as the improvement of the accessibility of the municipalities covered by the new road infrastructures, also launched by the Bizkaia Foral Diputation governed by us. We can't forget that the availability of the general services and sanitary services in the Encarteri has had a fundamental change in the past few years. The institutions which concern it have been wagered for this region of Biscaia, and it has been necessary to reassign what it really requires, and what project has already remained without meaning. Enkarterri is far from being in the situation of remoteness and difficulty of access to Bilbao, and also to the hospital of Cruces, where he was eight years ago. The indispensable consideration of these circumstances does not in any way mean that we should give up making the improvement of the existing sanitary facilities in the region or in Zalla a reality, but, as you are sure, the economic and budgetary situation of the Government does not make it advisable today. I do not remember you having put an amendment to the budgets requesting the Zalla specialty centre, but I may be wrong. At the right time we will re-evaluate the health needs and improvement of the facilities needed by Zalla and the Enkarterri region. The initiative that you are asking me today, Mrs Llanos, despite being important, which I believe has not been implemented, in order to give way to other more urgent priorities depending on the resources available to this Basque Government, and also on the demographic and social changes that have taken place in Enkarterri.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u134	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u135	Thank you again, Madam President. Look, this is not said by the unions, the workers themselves say: shortage of waiting rooms, existence of a single elevator that does not allow the use for stretchers, windows without airtight closure, absence of air conditioning, closed windows with gates that make it difficult to evacuate, provision of rehabilitation and mental health service in another building, or lack of space in the warehouse. This looks like a Third World health center, and no. This is Zalla's health center right now. But it doesn't have a priority. We do not know whether from 24 May, if instead of winning the independent wins the Basque Nationalist Party, then it will become a priority. And if priority has to come from an amendment from this group, don't worry. In the following budgets we will put forward an amendment, and, as it seems that that is what was missing, I hope that the Basque Nationalist Party will support it, and that in this way the Zalla specialty centre will really be a reality. Don't tell me you've improved communications. No, it's not a General Council debate. They have improved, but not what they had to improve, and unless they have put it from January to here, there is no direct line. Right now, if they have to go to Cruces, Zalla's neighbors have to go to Bilbao first and then from Bilbao to Cruces. I think that could be avoided if the centre itself existed in Zalla. Look, do you know what this proves, Mr. Darpón? They don't want to compromise. They don't want to. Just as last week the counselor didn't commit, neither did you. And what it shows is that it is not that archadia that you want us to see, that management so efficient. Basque health, of course, does not shine in all the places of Euskadi in the same way. In some, it takes enough to shine. And Zalla is one of those places where you need to shine. But, I say to you, in the absence of your commitment, of your Government's commitment (we do not know if from 24 May that commitment will exist), believe me, from this group we are committed. We do not have a representative in Zalla at this time, but we are committed to Zalla's neighbours. And you will have an amendment to the 2016 budget for this centre. I hope they approve of it. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u136	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u137	Mrs. Llanos, take it with affection, travel you, if it seems to you that the center of Zalla is of the Third World. You travel because you have seen very little Third World. Look, I've reviewed the initiatives, not only of this legislature, which I think I know, but I've also reviewed those of the past legislature in the case before us, and I haven't found any in which you would urge your government partners to speed up the implementation of this infrastructure. I therefore welcome the sudden interest in this issue on these dates, and I am sure that the citizens of Enkarterri and Zalla will appreciate it to their full extent. Look, the land you're telling me about today has a flood rating. It's keeping up with today... Check it out, Mrs. Ubera. [[Barres]] It doesn't seem serious to contradict the criteria... Excuse me, barkatu: Mrs. Llanos. I'm more used to dealing with Mrs. Ubera than with you (surely Mrs. Ubera will have seen something more from the Third World). Look, by the way, you know that when they flooded, in the last flood, it was me that was in the center of Zalla. I don't know if you know him personally, but I was. In conclusion, I would like to say again that the fairness and accessibility of all people to health services are one of our main objectives, but what we do not do is magic, magic. We prioritize the needs, we limit them to our budget under the responsibility we have, and we are implementing them. But they don't give us sudden attacks of interest depending on the period and the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u138	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Postpula team, Cristina Ruiz Bujedo, was made to the Chief of Environmental and Regional Policy, about the unexpected events of Euscal Y'an." Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u139	Yes, thank you, President. In mid-March, we learned from the media that the Basque Y works carried out by the Basque Government had led to a failure, specifically a landslide that caused a disembowelment and affected an electricity pole located in the area on the Toulouse-Alegia stretch. Although it was announced that it would be repaired soon, I do not know how long this shortness has lasted and whether the incident adds to the delays that are accumulating the sections of the work that depend on the Basque Executive. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, I ask you whether you consider that this technical setback, and others that might occur, will delay the deadline for the completion of the Basque Y beyond 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u141	Yes, thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Yes, the movements of March had been detected at the top of the left wing of the false tunnel in the Tolosa part, the artificial tunnel. It has been observed in the first visits, considering the features of the environment, that it is a wing that has undergone movements even before the works. He's following it every day, making his measurements to study the progress of the movements, and the counsel of the technicians who are specialised in motion. From the first conclusions, it may be asserted that the effect of the instability of the wing has been a considerable amount of water accumulated in this area, due to the great rains of the first quarter. A declaration of emergency work file will be processed which will propose a series of actions to drain all the accumulated water on the slope, on the one hand by capturing the most significant surface water inputs, and on the other by depressing the piezometric level, in order to achieve the stability of the entire area. For this we propose the execution of draining ditches and ditches and installation of open piezometers, as well as drainage wells provided with pump and a sequence of Californian drains. For the time being, and for your peace of mind, we don't understand that there's any reason to think that we can't meet that 2019 deadline.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u143	Yes, Mrs Oregi, I thank you for the information, and I am reassured by your answer. Last month, three representatives of the College of Geologists of the Basque Country attended a commission to present a risk guide for landsliding. In this appearance, one of the observations made by the professionals was the importance of anticipating possible slippages, with field engineering specialists who knew the geotechnical singularity. It was also said that the provision for geotechnics in civil works, such as the high-speed train, is insufficient in the Basque Country, with complex environments and with greater geological-geotechnical risks than elsewhere. Coming from specialists, I found it pertinent to bring this observation to the fore in the question I am asking you today. They even told us – and there, of course, I exempt him from all responsibility – that, as advisor López de Guereñu, the College of Geologists met with her and suggested that, although it was not a legal obligation, in terms of large-scale works, a prior geotechnical investigation in the pre-project phase, before bidding, would anticipate risks that could be avoided. There was the issue, which, taking into account this and other previous and possible future slippages, today we see the importance of that recommendation, which would certainly have saved us time and money. On this occasion it has been a disembowelment and a pole of electricity; last year a collapse caused a collapse in the tunnel of Anoeta, also another incident in Zumarraga... I do not doubt the impossibility of avoiding 100 percent incidences, but, far from assuming it as usual, it must also be recognized that geologists were right. And I don't know if you have a remedy today, but in any case, your answer reassures me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u145	Yes, Mrs. Ruiz, I'm glad I reassured you of my answer. And I would also like to stress the particular (intense) rainfall we have had during this winter. This whole winter has been particularly rainy. This directly affects the instability of the terrain, the instability of the slopes, by accumulation of water, by – I insist – this high rainfall that we have suffered. Last February we had a census, I would say, of rainfall rates, which made the land have high piezometric levels, bands of humidity, water summaries, with a general character throughout our territory. Unfortunately, this has brought many problems to all of us, either by managing public works, or by building public works, because in each and every public work, throughout our autonomous community, regardless of whether or not they had had sufficient analysis or sampling or geological studies, have occurred. I insist that in the specific case affecting this section of Toulouse we do not understand that in the programming of this section we have entered into a critical path because of these difficulties, which, as I explained in the first answer, we are solving by supporting us in the studies and analysis of specialists, among others, geologists, of high quality with whom we have in this Autonomous Community and also within ETS. As for the need for geological studies, I fully share: geological studies must be carried out, and all those necessary, all those necessary to make an infrastructure of this scale. So it has been done, and so it has been done in the Basque Y and so it is done in all the works we have to do. Geological studies are there. If there are many, few, too many or insufficient I think it is not an issue that will be discussed now. I don't have the specifics of the geological studies that have been done, but we can provide them to you if you're interested.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Group of Cristina Ruiz Bujedo, made for the chief division of the Environmental and Regional politics, "About the delays of Euscal Y." Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u147	Mrs Oregi (thanks, President), perhaps with the answer from the previous one I should be satisfied, but in any case I will formulate it, because the case is that the works of the Hernani-Astigarraga section of the high-speed train are paralyzed, due to administrative problems apparently. If this paralysis continues over time there is a serious risk that this infrastructure will not be completed within the committed deadlines; therefore I ask you again, to remain even calmer if it is possible, if there is political will, and the Basque Government acts accordingly, to finish the Basque Y in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u149	Yes, thank you again. And I have not discussed it before, but I believe that in this Chamber, we all know that for a long time these works are part of another great work. And the Ministry of Sustament and the Adife participate in this, and there is also the reverence of the Minister in all these geological studios, and in all these projects. And in this case also my answer lies. At this moment the Spanish Government is waiting for the technical consent to be given to the modified project of the Adif, Hernani-Astice. In account of the procedures established between the Basque and Adifen, that step has to be given before the consent of the Basque MUDM to hire. On the other hand, four quarters of the unclean earth were discovered in this part, after having defined and defined the measures to be taken by those parts with the jurisdictional institutions of the area. For this reason, in the last February, the permission to write the file on the extra works had to be published. When we deal with all these issues, when we have all the authorizations, we will continue with that part of the work. In any case, also in this case I have to tell you that we are not faced with a delay that supposes a critical path to end before 2019.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u151	Thank you, President. Mrs Oregi, in the last quarterly report of works of 31 March, referred to this House, concerning the new railway network in the Basque Country, in the historical territory of Gipuzkoa, the information given in that document, which appears in the subject-matter of my question, says about the situation of the work that, by resolution of the department's director of services, dated 15 January, the temporary suspension of works is agreed. As of 15 January, the date of suspension, the volume of work carried out is 18,50 % on the award budget. And that in February – what you have just told us – an application has been processed for authorization to draw up a draft supplementary works in this field. Indeed, it is an administrative issue that is happening, but it draws my attention – and that is why my question – that, in the face of an administrative situation affecting the Basque Government, the central government, the Ministry of Development, ETS and Adif, you interpret in the least favourable way for the diligence of the works you are undertaking, and yet that the central government interprets that the continuity of the work should not be affected or paralyzed. Precisely you, who have always been in a hurry, and the Basque Nationalist Party, which has placed in such a way that I would say that I have mercy on the Minister of Development on the deadlines and on the totem of 2020. That is why I say that, in the face of the same administrative situation, those of us who would be most interested in being in favour of us are being..., not the most obstructive, but let's say the most guarantors, vis-à-vis the other actors who are also involved in this situation. Sometimes it seems that the commitment of the Government of Spain..., I don't tell everyone, but that the high-speed train in the Basque Country comes into force in 2019 has sometimes caught with its foot changed, and that it has even neutralized the opposition work of the Basque Nationalist Party in the Congress of Deputies (which is not your case, you are a counselor). That is why I prefer to keep the statements he made in the press, which is good news, that it is possible. I also have the answers you have given us now, and I hope that you will work to make reality, far from spoiling, a good headline in four years' time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u153	Yes, thank you. Indeed, Mrs Ruiz, we work to do the works in the most efficient, most effective, most professional way, and with all the guarantees that are necessary to deal with them safely and diligently. We do not try to run, our aim is not to run, and when we have been demanding the different issues, which fortunately have been answered by launching the tender of the missing sections, it was not because we wanted to run. No, no, It's just that we've been a long time behind, and some works were planned in a way, and we were seeing that the necessary steps were not being taken to get that to a good place. And that's why we insisted that we wanted that planning, as you well know. But not running. I do not want to run in the works any more than is established in the plans of works. The works have their rhythms, we must respect them, and neither do we intend to run. Totem 2020... Totem 2019 is the one that has put us Minister Ana Pastor, and enchanted. We hope that this will be the case, and we certainly do not see any difficulties on our part. We have normal work difficulties, we will continue to attend to them and we will continue to treat them professionally, but we do not see that there is any problem on our part, in the part we manage, so that that is so. I hope the Ministry of Development will do that too. As for administrative obstacles, I have to tell you that there is one thing that worries me, which is the processing of the modified ones. And if you can help us in Madrid, enchanted by life. The amendments must be approved with a maximum of six plus eight months since they are proposed: Spain is taking twenty months, thirty months to approve an amendment. That is a critical issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-24.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two-fifteen in the afternoon.
