ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the entire Union. And before we start, we'll be quiet for a minute to remember Santiago Brouard. [[Pause]] Single point in theme list: "A 2014th yearly report of the interrogation, following Article 208 of the Parliament's Rule." 208 of the Parliament's Rule. as the article says, First, the intermediary must present a summary of the report. Mr. Arrid, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u1	Mrs. President of the Parliament, sitting at table, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u2	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u3	Ladies and gentlemen and gentlemen of the legislature, gentlemen of the government, good morning. It is an honour, as you may understand, to appear for the first time in this whole Union before the legislature, after having taken the office in this Chamber, to report the usual report of 2014. I am delighted to represent this institution in the presence of the representatives of the Basque People, especially because the intermediary is a high-mandate to defend the rights of the Basque People. And besides, I have to encourage good management too. On the 26th of last October, I appeared before the Commission of Human Rights, Equality, and People. During this apparition, I made a quantum analysis of the claims and the fumes which the citizens had made of us last year, and I briefly explained the acts of the organization. To-day, I will explain in front of this whole Union the law which prescribed the law of Artia, which is called "the general rating of the state of protecting the rights of the Renaissance." In the course of my conversation, it is not exactly possible to point out how far rights are protected from each of the 28 areas where the activity of the intermediary is organized, and as far as the Office of Children and Nerves is concerned. And so, considering the rights of people from the point of view of well-intentioned protection, I shall only remark here what the most important part of us seems to us to be in the practice and politics of the Euskal and the municipal corporations, and I shall particularly distinguish the actions which have been performed for weak groups. I would like to mention to you the most significant general facts of the work the intermediary had made, before I came directly to the substance of my performance: Almost the 9,000 activities which have been connected with service to the people and control the administration were counted last year. It was almost 6,500 complaints, claims. And more than 2,000 activities, we've supplied information and advice. We have made a meeting of 33 of many different kinds of social institutions, and at the same time we have a meeting of 57 different administrations, and other kinds of activities. The conduct produced by the influence of the authorities has been corrected and altered in almost 92% of cases. In most cases, it is hardly formal advice that the Administration produced should accept the reasoning of the intermediary. This data, which is the highest of the years we've been studying, has been revealed by him alone, that the intervention of the intermediary is highly effective. As you know, the Office of Children and Nerapes works inside the ark. The work of this office, Children and Adolescents, from a quantitative perspective, has resulted in 329 complaints files processed, 33 of them ex officio, and in multiple collaborations with social organizations and participations in forums for meetings and discussion on how best to protect children and adolescents. This accounts for around 13% of the total number of complaints filed by our institution. These figures that I have just given do not include – although this deserves to be taken into account – 576 claims which were mainly related to the Basque system of income guarantee and which are also likely to affect minors, who are at risk of economic hardship. The commemoration of the 25th anniversary of the formation by the United Nations General Assembly of the Convention on the Rights of the Child has been consistently present in the work of the office. In this context, the increase in the number of economically insecure children and adolescents in Euskadi reminds us that: First, the rights proclaimed by the convention are the rights of all children, without exception. Therefore, to act to ensure decent living conditions, especially for those in a situation of special vulnerability, is a question of rights; it is not a question of charity. Secondly, the experience of the economic crisis has almost unexpectedly affected the principle of equal opportunities. When the protective and inclusive effect of public policies is weakened, people from a disadvantaged situation find it difficult to save distances; inequality increases, and it moves from generation to generation. Breaking up inequality is, in this case, again a matter of rights. To speak, in any case, of the convention is to highlight the protagonist role of its headlines: the children and adolescents, who are genuine subjects of rights, have their own voice and demand spaces for participation. In the field of education, from this institution we have seen with some concern the existence of differences between the main educational actors with regard to the implementation of the projects submitted under the Heziberri 2020 plan for the improvement of the Basque education system. To this is added - we have found - a strong rejection aroused in our Basque Autonomous Community, for the entry into force of the Organic Law 8/2013, of 9 December, for the improvement of the educational quality, known as the Lomce. In our view, it would be desirable to seek the maximum consensus on the educational model of its own, as already happened on the occasion of the adoption of the current Law of the Basque Public School. In this regard, with regard to the section on admission of pupils, and even at the risk of being repetitive, we believe that an in-depth reflection should be given on the priority criteria that are applied in cases of insufficient places, in particular on the criterion concerning the proximity of the family home, due to the misuse of the data of the standard, which is a fraudulent practice, which is well known by the education administration, but which has not so far been taken against it which can be considered sufficient. With regard to educational planning, it was essential that those responsible should continue the line already taken to promote and promote democratic planning with the participation of all representatives of the school community. In any case, we believe it is essential to evaluate the implementation of the Strategic Plan for the Care of Diversity within the framework of an Inclusive School, which will help to assess the implementation of this plan, which will help improve the educational response offered to students with special educational difficulties, whose situation is the cause of repeated complaints by affected families. In the area of health and the right to health, the reform of Royal Decree 16/2012, of urgent measures to ensure the sustainability of the National Health System and to improve the quality and safety of its services, is not being easy in a context of shared competences. To this we must add the necessary consideration of decisions taken by other administrations outside the health sector, such as the Ministry of the Interior in relation to foreign affairs and, in particular, residence permits. Institutional support needs to be stepped up for social initiative entities, which are numerous in our country, and which are not profit-making and seek to improve the quality of life of people with chronic diseases and those of their families. In 2014, a number of important advances have been made in the development of the social and health area. We must insist, however, on the need to complete as soon as possible the process of approving the portfolio of social and health services and the corresponding maps, as well as to ensure the establishment of a common structure for territorial operational plans. With regard to persons with mental health disorders, their particular vulnerability and the difficulty they face in accessing public resources obliges the public authorities to ensure the effective exercise of the rights of which they are also holders. This requires action to enable them to be effectively integrated into the community. On the issue of social inclusion – and in particular, in the income guarantee system – it has been consolidated in recent years, and it was also consolidated in 2014, as a fundamental instrument to ensure social cohesion and the dignity of people living in our society. Social balance is, in our view, a greater generator of wealth than social inequality itself. Social protection is, at last, a source of wealth to which we cannot give up. This year – 2014, I mean – the Basque social protection system has been the subject of a lively public debate. Information on the national origin of the beneficiaries has been highlighted on other considerations, such as the situation of vulnerability or difficulties in finding employment. And an unfortunate and unfounded amalgam has been created that links – unfairly, we believe – social benefits with fraud. The grounds for refusal, suspension or termination of benefits are, in most cases, not related to the existence of fraud. And this is inferred from the analysis of the complaints that we have dealt with, from the many complaints that we have dealt with. The cases that have emerged in the media are, in our view, isolated cases, which do not reflect the reality of those who usually apply for benefits or their poverty situation. Most people who have filed complaints in this area with Ararteko simply lack sufficient income to meet their basic needs. On the other hand, we have found that there are some people who do not meet the requirements or obligations that Lanbide demands. It is therefore important to make citizens aware of these many requirements and obligations, which enable them to benefit from these benefits. As noted in 2013, Lanbide has been improving its management of the provision of RGI and housing. There was greater agility in terms of time limits for resolutions; there was also a reduction in delays in the resolution of appeals, and much progress had also been made in better motivating resolutions. We insist on the importance of preserving, maintaining, procedural guarantees, both those provided for in the specific income-guarantee legislation – in income-guarantee legislation – and in the general one, which derives from the Law on the Legal Regime of Public Administrations and the Common Administrative Procedure. It is also important for us to regulate an appropriate regime of offences and sanctions, in which conduct is characterized in detail, offences are graduated and a statute of limitations is laid down, taking into account, inter alia, the basic principles of sanctioning law and, above all, the principle of proportionality. The suspension or termination of the right to a benefit should be imposed only where there is a loss or absence of requirements, so as to ensure that the person to whom the right to a benefit is suspended or extinguished has income to meet his or her most basic needs. The remaining non-compliances and obligations should result in sanctions, not the suspension or termination of the right. Basque public administrations must assume with responsibility the challenge of realising the subjective right to the promotion of personal autonomy and the protection of dependence, prioritizing in all their policies the attention to this particularly vulnerable group. To this end, it is essential to establish additional levels of protection for the affected group and to take advantage of the excellent opportunity offered by the adoption of the Social Services Portfolio Decree, in order to alleviate the setback that has taken place at the state level and to ensure the effective implementation of the Basque Country Social Services Act, which is a clear expression of the exclusive competence in the field of social assistance enjoyed by our Community. It should be noted that disability reduces the economic capacity not only of the person suffering from it, but also of their family environment (ascendants, spouses and descendants), who have to bear a number of additional costs in their day-to-day life that limit their real disposable income. In this regard, it is desirable to take into account the greater economic effort that persons with disabilities have to make in order to be able to join and participate in society in a standardized manner. The financial and economic crisis has had a strong impact on many households, but even more so on migrant households – of immigrants, rather – that have unemployed members or have no income. Immigrants are often vulnerable in May compared to indigenous families, especially in the case of single-parent families. It highlights, as an emergent element of great concern, the child poverty of foreign minors. In this regard, social policies should take into account the situation of vulnerability or social difficulty or need, regardless of other factors such as the origin of persons or their administrative situation. On the other hand, the stigmatization of gypsy people remains a barrier to their social, economic and cultural advancement, although some have been able to overcome these difficulties and access to education and the labour market, there are still too many gypsy people living without adequate housing, water, light, among other basic needs. The fight against discrimination and the denunciation of racism, or discriminatory or vexatious situations against their dignity, remains a priority for us. We must work to change social and hegemonic values and accept sexual and emotional diversity. LGTBI boys and girls (using this acronym, which is used today) and children of single-parent families must have the same conditions and opportunities in school and in society to protect their freedom, development, dignity, self-esteem and security, and to prevent them from becoming invisible. In Euskadi, public support for families has focused on providing community-based community-based resources and services, such as haurrreskolak in the care of children, or day centres for dependent persons. However, Basque authorities and administrations should also strengthen conciliation support programmes and services. One of the first issues to be addressed in Euskadi is the identification of those family realities that deserve special resources or protection, in order to create a unified framework for rights holders of the measures laid down by the different administrations. This is, for example, the case of single-parent families. Last year, we all had to regret new cases of gender-based violence. The murders in Euskadi of Mari Luz Alejo Rodríguez and his mother Amelia Rodríguez, in Abadiño, and Andina Pereira, in Mungia. Behind every serious attack or murder, a thorough assessment of what has happened must be made of what can be improved in terms of police and social protection, more information, support for victims and detection against ill-treatment, in order to avoid the repetition of tragic cases such as those I have just mentioned. We note the persistence of difficulties in the participation of women in the fields of culture, art and certain sporting practices and festive events. In this sense, Irún and Hondarribia are still spaces in which, with the coverage of a certain social support, inequalities remain, without the public institutions concerned acting with the determination necessary to stop them. It is our institutional duty – it is that of the Ararteko, in any case – to insist that the public authorities should promote, through positive action, initiatives to defend women's right to equality in this area. With regard to persons in prison, it should be stressed that the vulnerability of persons suffering from mental illness is particularly acute in their relationship with the criminal justice system and their stay in prison. This was evidenced by the extraordinary report by Ararteko entitled "Social and health care for the mental health of persons deprived of their liberty in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country", which was discussed in committee very recently. At the same time, we have had to note in this same report the advantages, great advantages, of the new prison health care model introduced in 2013, which defines prison health care as another part of the overall structure of public health care. Mediation continues to represent one of the areas that most positive news produces in the field of justice, with three points to highlight: its virtuality in the field of juvenile justice; the strong emergence of collaborative law, an alternative method of conflict resolution, and restorative justice, a model that has in mediation one of its tools and in whose application Euskadi is pioneering. Resources for the free justice service are unfortunately insufficient to adequately meet the level of demand caused by the current socio-economic circumstances, which requires additional efforts by the Basque administrations in this area. We continue to see, in the area of housing, a wide gap between demand and supply, especially in the area of sheltered housing. Strong policy and economic measures must be taken by the public authorities to ensure an effective guarantee of the right to decent and adequate housing. The recent adoption of the Housing Act, which guarantees the enforceability of the right to housing before the courts, must be accompanied by a major budgetary effort by the Basque public administrations, especially if an effective response is to be given to the growing demand for sheltered housing under rental conditions. The analysis of our interventions in 2014 shows that Basque public administrations are becoming aware of the importance for the development of a dignified life of an adequate public housing policy and, in this regard, positive measures have been taken to contain the price of rents and to prevent the economic difficulties faced by many families from harming the stable and continued enjoyment of public protection housing. Coordination between public administrations with competence in the area of housing and social assistance continues to be essential to avoid situations of residential exclusion. In the area of policing, I must say that this is one of the most important in any democratic society, because it aims to guarantee the exercise of rights and freedoms by citizens, ensuring the safety and tranquility of citizens, and to combat crime. We would therefore like to emphasize and thank the work of the Ertzaintza officers and agents, as well as that of the local police, which are the police over which Ararteko exercises his powers. Complaints about the exercise of the police function have again raised recurring issues, such as the use of force, internal control, internal investigation of incorrect or allegedly incorrect actions, control of attestations of the facts that motivate them, identification and search in the public street, body registration during detention, arrests for simple misconduct or even for acts that are not constituting a criminal offence, abuse of authority and refusal of certain agents to provide their personal identification number. We have recommended to the Department of Security of the Basque Government that it take measures to prevent and control the development of racial profiles in the Ertzaintza, because it considers that such a way of proceeding, first, does not serve the objectives of crime prevention, secondly, it lacks justification and, thirdly, it has a discriminatory nature. In the field of the environment, and in order to promote and protect the state of health and the well-being of citizens, we have proposed to the competent administrations to adopt appropriate measures under the Water Framework Directive, which guarantees the correct environmental status of water intended for human consumption. In line with the strategic objective of fostering spaces for participation and dialogue with civil society, Ararteko has proposed measures to promote greater information and citizen participation in the field of environmental control, for example with the creation of the Petronor table. On the right to access to environmental information, Ararteko insists on the obligation to process and resolve requests for information quickly and preferably, and within one month provided for by Law 27/2006, which regulates the rights of access to environmental information, public participation and environmental justice. As far as language rights are concerned, despite improvements, complaints remain in certain specific areas, notably the police, the judiciary and health care. But we must account for the improvement observed in the management by the public authorities concerned. In this regard, and in 2014, greater collaboration has been demonstrated, and new planning tools have been adopted, incorporating some of the criteria that this Ararteko institution has long advocated in this area. In the field of sport, we insist on a fundamental obligation, which belongs to all entities involved in the field of school sport, both public and private, which is to act at all times in accordance with a spirit of participation and an educational spirit, which is to inspire the exercise of sport at these ages. It is beyond the jurisdiction given to the interifactal organization to control the activity of financial and credit institutions. Nevertheless, we endeavour to give advice to those who ask for the activity of the intermediary, that they may be able to account for the wrongs committed to them in the hands of the organs. The present economic and financial crisis is clearly reflected at the content of the consuls we've been consuls. The citizens are concerned that the banks increase the amount of a commission or begin to charge for a service they're offering until now. Again, they have caused anger to come upon these matters: they have sold the finance-produced finances which do not correspond to the properties of their age, or it is not possible to rescue a pension plan. It is more and more in use to get information from popular administrations, by which the administration ought to have the same attitude with the rights of all parties, and to measure the rights which are in competition, and when it is denied to acquire information, to explain the reasons for it. As for protection of data, we still see that when you use social networks and public networking, there is no information, no consciousness, and that dangerous behavior is not avoided. In conclusion, I want to thank those who serve in the Ardio organization for their passionate responsibility and their commitment. I am glad that Euscalita had given Ardria diploma last year for her engagement with her advanced management, and I must also admit that, in the course of our informal systems, the work of the intermediary has become more effective and more productive. To finish my speech, I want to thank you all for your attention, and I would like to ask your assistance to fulfill the duties given to this legislature by the State and by the law. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u4	Thank you, interrogator. Next, it'll be the legislative teams' turn. You'll have a 15-minute shift to explain your behavior. Mystto-the spokesman of theUPyD team, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari. This is the first report presented by Mr Manu Lezertua as ararteko, although it corresponds to the work done by his predecessor, Mr Iñigo Lamarca, as it corresponds to the financial year 2014. First of all, I want to wish you all the goodness of the world and all the luck in personal matters, and very well in professional matters. We hope that, indeed, you will do well in all your performances. Although it is not a question of analysing the data contained in the report, the sharp drop in the complaints collected this year, 6,378 compared to 9,610 in the previous year, 34% less. While it is true that in the previous four years the percentage of complaints had doubled mainly due to those related to the poor functioning of Lanbide, it is now decreasing because this body is gradually improving its performance; although, of course, much remains to be fully satisfactory. As we said last year, the Ararteko report is a reflection of what is happening in society in recent years, since the fundamental percentage of complaints that arrive at the institution is a direct consequence of the serious moment of economic crisis and the effects on citizens, especially the most disadvantaged, by the implementation of government policies of social cuts and rights. By making a brief analysis of the data concerning the Basque Government, on which we have the fundamental task of monitoring, it could be stressed that 80% of the open complaints relate to the social areas, i.e. inclusion, education, housing and health, mainly. The area of social inclusion continues to be the one with the highest number of citizen complaints, 51.5%, followed by Education with 11.33 %, Housing with 9.41 % and Health with almost 8 %. While Inclusion is found to experience a 10-point drop compared to the previous year, all others rise by approximately 1.5% and 3%. For several years now, Lanbide and the chaos generated by the assumption of social security income and supplementary housing benefits have been the focus of attention by Ararteko and his reports. The 2013 report already highlighted the improvement in the provision of the service, and the memory that we are now analysing is again focusing on this aspect. But that cannot make us complacent, because last year nothing less than 576 complaints were raised about Lanbide's malfunction, 96% of all those presented in the area of Social Inclusion. As in previous years, the largest number of complaints is due to the denial, suspension or termination of income guarantee income and the supplementary housing benefit, noting that in the last quarter of the year complaints were increased for the massive claims processed by Lanbide due to amounts unduly paid, an issue on which this Parliament has already pronounced itself, and has demanded from the Government and Lanbide a system of return that does not harm the recipients of such social aid. Bearing in mind that we are talking about the most fragile links in society, people who are in high vulnerability, the fact that so many complaints continue to be made because they feel treated inadequately, or even mistreated by Lanbide, is certainly worrying. I would like to highlight a phrase from the memory that has to do with a debate that we have had and repeated in this Parliament in recent times: "The reasons why benefits are denied or suspended or extinguished are not related to the existence of fraud, as is inferred from the complaints we have dealt with and the analysis of them. The cases that have come to light are isolated and do not reflect the reality of the people who apply for these benefits or their poverty situation." It is not new the recommendation – and it is repeated again this year – that the regime of infringements and sanctions should be regulated, and what is more important to us, and I quote again textually: "The suspension of the right to benefit should only be agreed when there is a temporary loss of requirements, so as to ensure that the person who is suspended the right to benefit has income to meet the most basic needs". And we add to the criticism that Ararteko lets us see, by pointing out that the level of labour intermediation achieved by Lanbide is low. Rather, we could say that it is virtually nil, as this body is now almost exclusively engaged in processing and paying social benefits and organizing courses for the unemployed. And practically nothing or very little to the work of brokering between companies and job seekers. Of course, with very little and poor results. The incorrect functioning in these chapters creates serious defencelessness in the affected one. What is clearly reprehensible, and we should demand that the Administration take swift and decisive action to prevent it. Let us not forget that he is usually a person with serious difficulties, so it is not acceptable for the administration to give him more problems. In the field of education we fully agree with the Ararteko when it demands a minimum consensus on the educational model, which this Government does not seem very willing to achieve. As usual in these interventions, we will also focus on the area of housing, which also directly affects the most vulnerable people in society. "The adoption of the Housing Act must be accompanied by a major budgetary effort by the Basque public administrations, especially if an effective response is to be given to the growing demand for sheltered housing under rental conditions." This is what the report says and what we claim. If we compare the 2016 Draft Budgets with what has been budgeted in recent years – and in particular in the last year – we see how the increase in housing, the budget increase amounts to only EUR 2 million, leaving much in evidence, or much in question, this government's commitment to the effective and real implementation of the current Housing Act. The truth is that huge amounts of money are still being spent on matters that could be considered very minor, while a fundamental issue such as housing, let us say, is not sufficiently budgeted. At least that's how we see it. And it is also worth reiterating at this point that we have been told by the Basque Government in recent times that the implementation of the Housing Act would have an almost catastrophic effect on the draft future budgets. This is not reflected at all in the 2016 draft budgets, so we could conclude that this government is unwilling to enforce and enforce the Housing Act rigorously. "We believe that the stock of sheltered housing should be substantially increased and that public programmes for the capture of free housing for social rental should be strengthened," the report rightly points out. We hope that the Basque Government will take note. Under the Housing Act, therefore, we demand that the Government develop and implement it, and allocate the necessary amounts in the budgets. As I say, it is an essential matter for the citizenry. To conclude with the 2014 memory, I would refer to the chapter on victims of terrorism for clarification. The report states that, since the cessation of armed activity by ETA, there has been no violation of the right to life, liberty and personal security of citizens by acts of terrorist groups. It is true that since no terrorist group has acted directly, there have been no such violations, but do you not think that much is yet to be done to regain full freedom in Euskadi? We think so. Does not the Ararteko believe, does not the Government believe, that there is an environment of these terrorist groups that continues to restrict, in many places in Euskadi, the freedom of those who do not think like them? We think so, and we also think that we should say it and denounce it. We agree with the report when it states that, at the municipal level, there is a need for recognition of the victims of terrorism. However, he has once again forgotten to make any reference to the more than 300 cases of persons killed by the terrorist band ETA pending resolution. We told Mr. Lamarca last year and this year we tell the new Ararteko. It should devote part of its efforts to calling on the institutions, the administrations, not to forget this matter, and therefore to devote all necessary means to satisfy the victims in their claim for justice, truth and reparation. As I say, and as I have been repeating in recent years, there are more than 300 crimes committed by ETA pending resolution. However, the report does not say anything about this matter. I will also end with a classic in UPyD interventions, and it is with the request that we resize the institution. We continue to consider that neither the structure nor the existing salary levels in the current staff of the Ararteko institution are welcome. Beyond the legal reform to be carried out shortly in this Parliament, we believe that a clear commitment by Ararteko is needed to achieve these objectives. Having said all this, I also point out what I usually point out: the Ararteko presents his report annually, that report highlights certain actions of the different governments and the way in which many citizens are suffering on foot in Euskadi. But the responsibility for correcting all this, the ultimate responsibility or the ultimate responsibility for making life better and fairer to the whole of society is governments and we are also political representatives; we are responsible for solving the real problems of people, especially the most vulnerable citizens and meeting their demands in terms of social policies, dependency, education, health or housing, among many others. It is therefore a question, as always, of political will. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u6	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Ruiz has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u7	Egun on. Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In late 2014, that is, of the year of whose activity we have just been informed, parliamentary procedures began on the initiative of the People's Group of a proposal for a law regulating the institution of Ararteko, in order to adapt and size its structure and to accommodate its expenses to the times we live of transparency, control and austerity, which require the citizens to whom Ararteko serves. Let us hope that this will materialise before the end of the current legislature, coinciding with the new stage, with you, Mr Lezertua, as ararteko; it would be a good start. Because also in 2014 Mr.Lamarca has finished his term, after 10 years at the head of this institution, and also in 2014 he has commemorated the 25th anniversary, long enough for the Ararteko to have built on the citizen's acquis of the civic culture of the Basques. The Ararteko is a reference and a guarantee to safeguard the rights of Basque citizens. We could say, Mr Lezertua, that you face your new responsibility at a time of inflection and with a different horizon in many ways from that of your predecessor. Even so, you have given us in your presentation the proper fulfillment of the 2014 annual report, in an intervention that – if I am allowed the musical metaphor – syncopated, since that year you were not the aarteko. In any case, chapter III of his report is devoted to Ararteko's actions in defence of public care groups, with 11 paragraphs. I would like to dwell on paragraph 11, for one thing, which is that of people who are victims of terrorist groups. The mood that engulfs us after the Paris bombings reminds us and brings us back to the ETA terrorism that the Basques have suffered. In its report, it is stated that "it is remarkable that the lack of terrorist activity since ETA declared the definitive cessation of violence in 2011 has meant that there has been no violation of the right to life, liberty and personal security of citizens by acts of terrorist groups". It also says that "the Basque institutions need to deepen their efforts to contribute to the realization of rights, reparation, justice and the truth of the victims of terrorism". During 2014, no complaints have been received in relation to the area of victims of terrorist groups. Yet I encourage you, as Ararteko, to keep the victims of terrorism as a collective that deserves the attention and action of your institution, regardless of the public policies that take place by other administrations and entities; otherwise the People's Group would not understand it. These days, the French have transferred to the world the importance and meaning of symbols in democracy. The respect and transcendence of chanting and listening Marseilles dignifies citizens and honours the memory of those who have lost their rights, their freedom, their lives by the action of terrorists who despise democracy. The remaining 10 sections of Chapter III are dedicated to the actions of Ararteko in defense of public care groups, and these have indeed expressed complaints to Ararteko, except one, which I would like to outline for the impact it has on the policies of the different governments of the Basque Country. That would be the case with the family. The family must be protected by the public authorities, as reflected in the Statute of Autonomy. More attention should therefore be paid to complaints about delays in child and child support and help in reconciling family and work life. It is also worth mentioning the many citizens who have complained about the completion of the budgetary appropriation for conciliation aid. We also want to remind the Government that there are people who are being excluded from the receipt of these aid and who are potentially beneficiaries of it, and who are excluded, not because they want to, but because of difficulties in processing the request, something that the administrations and the Government should facilitate. Recommendations for the development of public family policies in Euskadi should not be overlooked, which go beyond promoting leadership and cross-cutting, strengthening public investment, reconciling family and work life, also because of the impact of population ageing and on the welfare system, and policies for vulnerable families. As for the equality and integrity of women, we see, unfortunately, that gender-based violence also does not disappear from the 2014 report, being a priority concern, with room for improvement. The Ararteko report, in particular, aims at improving the staff of the justice system and providing guidance for the assistance of the minor children of women victims. Another group are persons with disabilities, who continue to complain about non-compliance with accessibility regulations in facilities and buildings, but it is more striking, if any, that there are complaints about lack of accessibility in administrative units and health centres. I recall again, as I did last year, the importance of public exemplaryness, which Javier Gomá also analyzed in his essay. It is not acceptable for public administrations or health centres to have accessibility problems. People with chronic diseases must necessarily be cared for by Basque public administrations, and there is once again a lack of specialized resources, as in the case of people affected by brain damage. From the Ararteko we see how people with mental illness or mental disorders are informed of the rights that assist them as citizens and patients, without questioning the technical, medical criteria, that these are grounds for complaint, but that the Ararteko cannot intervene. Persons in prison have also received preferential attention from Ararteko, and their intervention and mediation have had satisfactory results, with settled complaints regarding the enjoyment of prison benefits and the development of cultural activities. Gypsies and other cultural minorities suffer from problems, and express complaints mainly related to the suspension of social benefits of economic content, the relationship of coexistence and the denial of registration in the padrón. Let us hope, Mr Lezertua, that these complaints do not end up being chronic, report after report. Immigrants and cultural diversity is also a specific section of the report and the complaints it makes affect all areas of work in Ararteko, especially Social Inclusion, Education, Housing, Health and Security. I would like to highlight here the appeal made by Ararteko to the humanist, European and universal human rights tradition. It is important to note that in 2014 there were no complaints processed in the section on lesbians, gays, bisexuals and transgender and transgender people. In addition, we must all congratulate ourselves and underline the importance of Ararteko coordinating the European Rainbow Has project, which had as its main objective the analysis and improvement of the situation of children's rights and adolescents to sexual diversity in the educational field, preventing and combating homophobic and transfobic activities. The special attention given by Ararteko to older persons and dependent persons is governed by the increasingly heterogeneous and large group of persons over 65 years of age. Individual cases and complaints have been handled through different administrations, but they may manifest a need, such as the transfer from one territory to another within the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country of the person in a situation of dependency benefiting from a residential place, or territorial imbalances in the field of promoting personal autonomy and attention to the situation of dependency. This is where we speak precisely – and Mr Lezertua has mentioned it – of the Social Services Charter as an opportunity, which we trust will bring good results. One year, 2014, in which 6,378 complaints have been submitted, with the main social benefits of economic content being 80 %. The Ararteko, when it examines them and concludes that administrative action has not been correct, makes a recommendation or suggestion. I should therefore like to refer in this connection to Chapter VII, which deals with whether or not the administrations comply with these recommendations and suggestions and, in particular, with those relating to the Basque Government. I am sorry to highlight Mr Toña's department, with 10 outstanding recommendations and suggestions and with 19 that have not been accepted. Let us say that, if we take stock of the complaints and recommendations and suggestions made in all the departments (those that have been accepted and those that have not), your department, Social Action and Employment, it is the one that casts a negative balance on your behalf to the detriment of the citizens. Also in your discharge I will say that it refers to 2014, the year in which you were not a counselor. This issue would merit further reflection by the Basque Government and greater receptivity to those who control the government's action in the social and labour field, when we talk about Lanbide and present measures to improve it and the management of income guarantee income. I believe that this Ararteko report also supports us. It has to be acknowledged that reading the annual report does not leave us indifferent, it should not leave us, nor the Group of the European People's Party, and I am sure that no group. And as for the affected public administrations at all levels, autonomic, foral, local, of course the one who is free of guilt who throws the first stone, which there is for everyone. Not being a sociological barometer, it is a social catalyst, enriched with sectoral reports, studies, days and seminars, all of which are of great social interest and sensitivity, such as those relating to children and adolescents in precarious situations. As Mr Lezertua has said, it is a matter of rights and not of charity. It should therefore be an obsession for this Government to put an end to child poverty, which this report also refers to. I conclude by reminding our neighbours in France, the country of light and human rights, as Mr Lezertua recalled in the letter sent to his French counterpart Mr Toubon, hung on the website of the Ararteko. Illustrious French intellectuals recently deceased, like André Luffman and before Stéphane Hessel, have not been able to live to see the terror in a country with which the Basques today feel solidarity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Unzalus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u9	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, members of the Ardranda. Good morning, everyone. Before commenting on the Ararteko report for 2014, and since it is the first time that it is before this plenary, I would like to reiterate my congratulations and that of my group to Mr Lezertua, who was appointed Ararteko in May of this year. I would also like to express our appreciation to all the human team working in the institution. The 2014 report, which has been presented to us today, corresponds to the last year in which Mr Lamarca acted as arteko. Change in leadership, but not attitude, rhythm of work, situations to attend to. We are sure that the line of service to citizens that has always inspired the work of Ararteko will continue. The institution of the Ombudsman, which was established in Sweden in 1809 and was subsequently established in other countries as soon as democratic maturity has been achieved, has as its main objectives to act as an intermediary between the Administration and citizens, trying to respond to complaints that they may have in relation to it; to inform the same citizen about their rights before the public authorities; to alert, if necessary, the Administration about irregularities that may be committed; to carry out analyses of different social realities, whether in support of extraordinary reports, or in days, etc.; to act as a social observatory to detect new needs of citizens in relation to new economic, social or political realities. All these functions are those that characterize Ararteko as an institution that seeks to safeguard the rights of the citizenry and gives our society a plus of democracy. What we could say is that it supports a quality democracy. The various performances of Ararteko are increasing year by year, and I believe that, fundamentally, it is for three reasons. One is the very needs arising from socio-economic conditions. The other is that the institution is increasingly known, respected and perceived as a valid instrument by citizens to resolve their complaints. The generation of know-how in persons working in the institution, which enables proactive and preventive work in many cases in the face of new social situations, is the third of these reasons. The data are perfectly reflected in the report and I do not want to repeat here what appears here; just highlight some aspects. Increase in the number of advice. This is something that has been repeated since Ararteko's early years of action and has been reinforced by the outbreak of the economic crisis. Of the 8,608 proceedings of the Office, the vast majority relate to complaints, information and advice. The complaints concerning social benefits provided to combat social exclusion are those which have the greatest weight, but also other areas, such as Education, Housing or Health, collect a good number of these complaints. By the institutions to which the complaint is addressed, the Basque Government is the recipient of the majority, with 62.11%, followed by the local government, with 27.92%, and already further away, the outside administration, with 7.64% of the complaints. Claims are presented preferably in the Ararteko office, also with a strong Internet presence. It can also be highlighted that the number of visits to the Ararteko website in 2014 exceeded 100,000. By territory, it is noteworthy that in Araba, with a population significantly lower than that of Gipuzkoa, for example, more complaints are made than in that province. Of every 100 incorrect actions of the Administration that are detected by the Ararteko, more than 91 are resolved with the simple intervention of the institution, which gives us an idea of the efficiency of this one. The assessment made by citizens of the service provided is also positive, in terms of satisfaction with the resolution of the problem, evaluation of the intervention –72.27 % very good or good – and possibility of recommendation to others –63 % in all cases. These data show that Ararteko is an increasingly rooted institution in this society, and an indispensable reference in the field of human rights protection. And speaking of human rights, I would like to stress, in order to take into account two aspects of the institution's forthcoming actions, which are very topical. I am sure that on these matters I will comment on all the people working at the Ararteko institution are perfectly sensitized, but I think it is good to record them. One is the increase in inequality and poverty in our country. The crisis continues to plague, and its effects remain fully in force in our society. More and more people are at risk of social exclusion. Poverty in all its manifestations is increasing. Older people who have to supplement their pension because it does not reach them to meet their minimum needs. Households that cannot turn on heating or that cannot access any other energy consumption; boys and girls who do not have their most basic necessities such as food insured. To this is added a situation that for generations we did not know, people with work, with indecent wages, who cannot meet the minimum needs. To put an end to these scourges is essentially the work of those who are public representatives and of the Executive. But the Ararteko can perform a function of denouncing situations and controlling that will be very beneficial. The other issue that I would like to comment on, given that it has a very complex dimension and prediction, is the growth in our societies of intransigent and xenophobic attitudes, armed conflicts, social, religious or economic tensions in not so far geographical areas are producing an avalanche of people fleeing those situations and trying to find a vital outlet in our environment. All of society must respond to this problem, possibly the most important one that we are faced with at the beginning of the twenty-first century. Execrable terrorist attacks that we denounce, such as those that took place last Friday in Paris, can provoke negative reactions in our society against the refugees or migrants living among us. Xenophobic attitudes we met on Tuesday in our city, and I want to take this opportunity to denounce and strongly reject the paintings that have reappeared at the headquarters of the African American Association of Vitoria. There are repeated insults and threats against certain groups. The authorities and public representatives must maintain a firm attitude against these violent outbreaks and, in this case too, the Ararteko can carry out a mission of prevention and preferential denunciation. I would also like to refer to the victims of gender-based violence, a social scourge that we must avoid and resolve among all. Finally, I want to wish Ararteko, as well as his entire team, success in their performance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u10	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Protect the Representative of the EH Group, Mr. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u11	Thank you, ma'am. And good morning to all. First of all, we'd like to congratulate the intermediary and all her team for the work he does. We believe that an organization of this kind is necessary, an organization which has contributed to the rights of the people. Besides, not only are we to consider it essential, but to work outside political and impartially, as is proper to it, we regard it as necessary. So, first of all, our happiness on this side. We must further remark that there are several recommendations and advice that are repeated every year in the year's report of the Ardrera. And this shows that sometimes there is no great attention to the work of the interrogator. This, from our point of view, is serious, considering that we are speaking of a defense of the rights of the people, and that so many advice and recommendations received from the Government or from different administrations are very little attended with. However, it must be confessed that this has been an advance, because it answers almost 9.2 of the ten revisions. But fix it? That's the question. Looking at the data, he's handling eight hundred8 activities connected with 28 jobs and the Childs and Nerabean Bureau, with so many social meetings, 57 meetings, institutions, and eight visits to watch: The places of Hernanic and Esquimaese Asti, three offices of profession, two police houses, and so on. I wish to observe the latter at this moment; for, compared with others, the proportion is much lower than the radians. And EH Collect sees these visits well. This has been our proclamation for the past few months: To follow this way, and to understand the functions of the intermediary in an extended manner. That's what we asked him to be brave from the beginning, and that's what we're asking him to do now. "EH Billah asks you, my lord, In the next year's report, there were visits also to visit the Cartzel. Here, reflecting the state of the prisoners of Esscal. In it, reflecting whether human rights are respected or not. That would be novelty. There is a remarkable other element in the data: It takes 81 a day's due, averagely, to close the files. As I told you at the board, we think it's too long. Ye say that ye have set several measures: I'm just wondering if those measurements reflect in the next year's report and whether that middle term drops down. Apparently, the delay's mostly on the eulogy. You have to get committed. Our team is willing to push them on. On the other hand, to the end of the data, most of the complaints are from the Basque Mitchs, 62%, but they're keeping it at annual rates. In 2014, however, the complaints of municipal housing and private pensions have increased. That should give us something to think about. As for the contents, it is obvious that the government is drawn from the ear in several districts. For this reason, as a year ago, the report constantly insists on the serious consequences of economic and social crisis: Since 2010, 45% of the complaints have gone up, and 50% of the smoke, it has to do with social rights. It affects the most vulnerable check, the weakest groups, as you have said. The offices of the intermediary have become a good measure of the degree of resignation of society, and of the want of answer which the system has given us to protect our society. The function of the intermediary, besides hearing, hearing complaints, directing, and conjuring them, is to be evaluated by public policy. And among public politics there is profession, most of the complaints belong to him, chiefly to DBE, and to EPO. You acknowledge that there has been a better improvement in the past year, and that the proceedings have improved. Now, I hear you're talking about criteria, and that's what you're talking about, you know, a bunch of jobs are gonna be together with you. In fact, at first it struck us as rather strange about the business, because we thought the profession was meant to make social protection politics, and to evaluate the intermediary. But let him welcome, if that business will bring improvements to the people. In fact, we can't forget about 10,000 letters last year with the wrong one, what happened with the wrong collection. This gave a great deal of anxiety to the people, because we are speaking of people who have no resources: the only parents with children, the homes of immigrants, etc., and the removal of preparations causes serious situations. Let's hope this doesn't happen again. At the moment when social conversation may occur, it's very important, from our point of view, to study and update our system for social protection. "Percbo quiebras en el contrato social," said the other arch. "Hay que actalic las poíticas sociles, porque la situciaón es nuna." With that, but like the Chinese, you also know that we have people who go in the opposite direction here, in this very legislature. It's just to see what Popular Party wanted to do. He wanted to increase social excitement. Unacceptable. We're talking about the measure and the decision to avoid the separation. And even to the intermediary, that's to look after. In another section, which concerns children and teenagers, there is a report of very disturbing facts. "Ha habido un aumento de la poora Infanti," says he. The child's malnutration is rising. From 2012-2013, you're asking for an integrated plan against poverty from that office. You know, it's like, you know, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, it's like, like, like, "You know, it's all The Basque Country finds it necessary to make an integrated plan, so we'll ask for it. We cannot allow that those who are to come to be citizens of Esscal will not be secure of basic rights. It is curious, too, that in this area the MENA cases are disappearing, and the JENA cases (Jóvenes Extraranjeros Nocompaña) are produced. It is most probable that there are three models of Euskal Autonomy in the Er member: Gipusque, Biscay, and Aruba. That's how you report it, and that's how you described it on the front board. Each country makes its own policy to the MENA, the JENA, and even to the social services, without co-ordination. Is it normal? We don't think so. It happens in the case of children and teenagers and social services. This must lead us to reflection: there can be no three different examples in this little country. We miss, as far as the field of human rights is concerned, a greater characteristic of the policy of prison which the Government of Madrid possesses, especially when this policy rests on the denial of these rights. It's hardly mentioned in the report. You said, "No Expetse referencia" on the front board. "Stamos laboro con e insistence de prisoners confermedades crionicas irecuperables," as well as in centen. It's not enough, it's from the Basque People's point of view. There are traslads, punishments, changes of fate, the removal of family visits, long offsets, and other problems connected with the health of the prisons in other autonomys. And all this is due to the policy of prison in Madrid, the effects of a prison policy based on revenge, the dispersal. Next year's report from the Basque Country. For the Arlias ought to be allies of the legislature, to identify the obscure parts of the administration, and to propose the measures necessary here. And this legislature has more than once made up its mind to respect the human rights of the prisoners of euscals. On the other hand, even in the case of the smokes, there are those who have a direct relation to the right of society; language, education, health, housing, etc. You yourself have mentioned them, and I will only observe those who appear to us to be the most conspicuous: On the one hand, as regards the politics of language, the head of the old one: in the appropriate section of the language, it is also shown that the rights of the languages of the Basques are not respected. As in every year, Osacence is the principal difficulty of finding replacements at the time of the Eascalradi. On the other hand, a division of justice and of the greatest difficulties; Security. Despite the planning, no results. It cannot be that in this country, where we have two official languages, the speaker eupscals must always complain to support our right, because we have no right to support it, because we cannot live upon it in all places. And this is not a subjective imagination of the people, but an objective reality and a proof. As for education, half the smokes received in the Child and Nerape Office are, 50%, educational or educational, that's where the scholarship, transport, license, license, license, and license, and the contempt for Lomce, for the production of its own frame, seem important to us from the demand of the community. In fact, we don't see any determined resolutions on the side of the department to face Lomce. So we agree with what's in the report. On the other hand, as far as the apartment is concerned, a previous spokesman has also said "unjustice," no complaints, no solution. Here a law of housing was accepted, and in the budgets which are anticipated for 2016 it does not reach the accepted person here. We'll see what the report next year says about it. On the other hand, even in the field of police, the report is that we must take a lot of steps. The abuse of authority has been mentioned, etc., etc., etc., etc. In my opinion, the end cannot be taken from the eye, and the end must be to defend the rights of the people, and the steps must be taken to this end. In the end, I want to end up with an order made by the people to the people of the district: Let him work in the midst of the community to promote solidarity with people who are in a serious financial situation. For it is time to decide whether health, home, education, social politics, and the mere privileges reserved for the prosperity of the economy are to express publicly. That's what the people want. We've got it very clear: they are rights, and they must be assured. And it is for public powers to guarantee it. Now, by the end of the year, we ended up with a goodbye, and this time I'd like to finish it with a welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u12	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre generous. And, finally, Eune patriots represent the group, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u13	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, all good days. The first words you have to say about the 2014-year-old report are to thank you. Eunerative patriots in the name of the group, we'd like to thank the organization of the Ardal because of the fine work he does under the protection of human rights. Today, as the other spokesman have said, we wish to remind Mr. Lamarca, when the course he made as an intermediary is completed, and the most warm welcome to Monsieur lezerta. We'll continue the same structure as the year report in our interference. We can only reach the most remarkable sections, because we had long time at the commission, and had the opportunity of answering questions. It must be said that, in cases considered by the interrogation, there has been wrong activity of administration in 50.84 cases, the percentage has decreased a little, and in 91.76 cases the administration has altered or altered its activity by the effective work of the intermediary. It is also remarkable that the subjects which relate to the social domain have been overthrown. In like manner, the smoke of the Viscai Fordalu has been overthrown, but the contrary of the forums of Araba and Gipus have been raised: the opposites of the latter, in the case of the Gipulia, have also been strikingly raised. In Chapter II, on the supervision of the activities of public administrations in the field of the Basque Country, mention is made in education to the concern of Ararteko at the attitude of indifference towards Lomce promoted from some sectors, since it is not exempt from risks that, moreover, directly affect our children, position that we share in this group. Any position against Lomce must be consensual, and must have sufficient legal certainty for students, families, teachers... With regard to social inclusion, we want to bring to the fore a number of positive manifestations that are reflected in the annual report, because it is an issue that concerns and occupies this Parliament and on which we have spoken on many occasions, and I read: "The Basque system of income guarantee reduces both the extent and the intensity of the poverty of families with minors". And he goes on to say, "different surveys and reports support the best situation in our Autonomous Community compared to others, for having a more dimensioned social protection system. Budgets in social policies and income guarantee policies remain a priority for Basque public administrations, which are making an important effort to maintain them." And I'm reading literally. It's important that we publish these contributions, that we all possess the importance of the system for the welfare of society, and that we can appreciate the efforts of the institutions in favor of the maintenance of the system. There is also talk of improvements in Lanbide, although, hearing the speeches of other representatives, it seems that everything is fatal; for I literally read: "Visit Lanbide's offices. In May we visited several offices in Lanbide of the three historical territories. The purpose of these visits was to know their operation first hand and to be able to evaluate the progress made since we made the previous visits in the summer of 2012". "The assessment we made was a clear improvement in many of the aspects observed, such as attendance appointments by Lanbide staff, improvement in waiting times, record of documentation, administrative procedures that follow from the management of GIR and PCV benefits. Progress has been made in the time frame for the resolution of applications, which are carried out within the so-called active employment policies. Operation of computer applications, etc." There are clear improvements, so let us also make the things that exist positive, because, if not, we have the feeling that everything is fatal. As for justice, it seems to us to be disturbing that only 26% of the eucasures should be trusted in the courts of justice. There's a lot of work to do in this area to improve the perception of the people. Home. The other spoke about it too. Being a delicate subject, we have often spoken of in the legislature about the housing, about the housing. It must be said, on the number of the smokes presented, that there has been a false activity in 28 cases, and in 54 cases there has been no bad activity: nearly double cases which have been wrong in which there have been no false activity. III. In the chapter of the chapter, the activity of the intermediary unites the work of the community which requires public attention. We want to emphasise that in the case of families, new global plans to organize time must be fostered by searching for the rationalization of time. We think that we have an excellent job to do, both organizations and society, in general, in order to achieve this important goal. Between the equality of women and the equality of the whole. We all know that we've advanced a great deal over years, but we've still a great challenge to the future until we've got the true equality and finally end up with the force of the genus. In the report, it is especially mentioned that in the field of sport there must be more work to find equality between girls and boys. About people in jail. As we said two years ago, a severe system of punishment has been chosen in the State, Spain remains one of the countries of the European Union, which are the most imprisoned, compared with its population: 150 prisoners per 100 thousand. The Spaniards of Europe doubles the mean. It is surprising to see how the cause of this is not a high rate of criminalism, for years it remains around 45 crimes in the year, less than the average of European countries. And the report goes on: "It may, therefore, be affirmed that the excessive application of imprisonment has been part of the context of our intervention in this area for another year, although the reasons in the security of the community are not justified, and that this excessive use of the system of punishment is not the most just and most efficacious, in order to repair the difficulties which arise from the principal kinds of crimes which the prison fills with people." From the point of view of human rights, that's unacceptable, and it would have to take a full turn to the Code of Punishment. There is an explicit mention of the concern about the high incidence and harmful consequences of mental illness on the affected population. This same week, in the Commission on Human Rights, Ararteko's extraordinary report entitled "Social and health care for the mental health of persons deprived of their liberty in the CAPV" was presented. Commercial and cultural skills. According to the data of the view, the number of census shows that in the year 2014, less than 5,3 foreigners are registered than 2013. It seems strange to us that the cyberlinkuity which is related to this subject, in which the case of xenophobic and racist actions are occurring through the computer. And, as some other speakers have said, not only by informant, but we are able to find out how the seat of an African institution has been conducted today. Then, at the next round, we shall be able to talk about it, and so I shall not prolong it. And with regard to the annual report of the Office for Children and Adolescents, I must point out that complaints relating to this particularly vulnerable group account for 12.4% of the total and that only 2% are made by minors themselves. To conclude, confirm our gratitude to the intermediary, to the defence of human rights. Eunerative patriot will remain as he has hitherto done in the firm defence of all human rights, and you will always have us in this pursuit of companioning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to this whole meeting. And we'll start with the next round meeting. It's a vote, so I'll ring the bell. It was eleven o'clock in the morning. The meeting began at eleven o'clock in the morning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u15	All the days again. We'll start the whole meeting. Preceding theme: "The other proposal as a party of the laws of Misto-UPyD about reading. As far as the other proposal is concerned, it must be decided once for all that the drawings of the meeting of November 12, followed by the 92.1 article of the ruler." It was a draw in the vote of the Middle Amendment introduced by the Myto-UPyD and the Basque Sozialist. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we're going to make that correction vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 27; the whites, 0; the abstainments 21st.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u16	So this point has been cancelled. First point in theme list: "To discuss the First Amendment of EHGGINDs as well as any other member of the legislature, the decision to put a nuclear warehouse at once in Garoña. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Lopez de Munin, your word is to introduce and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u17	Good morning, everyone. Again, as we did a few months ago, we bring the discussion around Garoña into this Chamber. Again we bring the matter to deal with great care. And the Araba and the Basque People look at us. It was a few months ago that we were temporarily suspended by the action of the central plant in Santa María de Garoña, and so we succeeded in perfectly agreeing with the Chamber. Today we have another challenge to face the intentions of those who seek to open it again. A few weeks ago, two news reports increased concern about a possible reopening. On the one hand, we were told that the works had been completed in the reactor vessel. This was one of the demands placed on Nuclenor by the CSN for the renewal of the licence. The works in the vessel were one of the claims made against 22 safety requirements that had to be met, which, by the way, had not met those 22 requirements, not even those required in 2009. Thus, in the note to the meeting of the Management Committee of the DSN, in paragraph 8, regarding the renewal of Garoña's authorization, it states: "Those aspects which are deemed necessary from a regulatory point of view and which have not been duly satisfied by the holder, must be taken as a condition, closing the assessment". In other words, the Nuclear Security Council, in the simple style of the Simpsons, says that what was previously mandatory before a possible reopening, are now placed on a conditional basis, closing the assessment in a positive way for Nuclenor. So the clear things. The only purpose of the Nuclear Security Committee is to continue to heat up Iberdron and Endes's pockets. Always to harm the consumers. The only goal of the CSN is to ensure that money continues to flow from the accounts of consumers, to the pockets of Iberdrola and Endesa. And it is that in some way we have to pay for the political services provided to so many ex-ministers who are now dedicated to sitting on the boards of directors of these companies, and earn millions of euros as a counterpart to their policies. On the other hand, after hearing the news about the vase, we read days after the CSN had already given the positive assessment for the reopening with the favorable votes of the representatives of the People's Party and one of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. The other representative of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party voted against. Against this backdrop, the Arab Parliament, which is therefore much more sensitive to the issues of health and safety than this Government, on behalf of the MEP for Environment and Urbanism Josean Galera, said: "They would not stand idly by, given the news about the intention to reopen Garoña". In the meantime, this government was silent. Mr Galera also said: "It would be a decision to issue a favourable environmental impact statement for the project of a nuclear waste warehouse for Garoña". This Government, which remembers that it has a representative on the Advisory Council of the CSN, either did not know or what is worse, did, but did nothing above all that was happening. Mr Galera, who is at least seen on the nuclear issue as a full person, spoke in these terms in relation to nuclear storage: "In the face of possible contamination, this type of substance does not understand administrative boundaries." That doesn't get away from anyone, who's got two fingers on his face. He kept saying, "We are talking about a place where its groundwater is connected to the great underground reservoir that we have throughout the Lautade." I hope that this sensitivity of not poisoning our waters, and the Alaves, will also have it on the subject of fracking, but at least in the face of one of the risks, nuclear, it is clear. This government, I don't know. We must be aware that the temporary storage of radioactive waste is something indispensable for the definitive dismantling itself, but for today, it is only linked to the reopening of Garoña. And let us not deceive or deceive the people of Araba, the only thing we should be talking about today is how the works of the dismantling of the plant should go. Let no one attempt to create false debates in the face of a consensus already existing in Araba and in this House. The street has demanded, demands and demands that we put all political means at the service of definitive dismantling. But however, the power of energy is so much and its shadow is so long, that in these years after its closure, we have advanced more towards reopening than towards dismantling. And those responsible have names and surnames and have political acronyms. Everything has gone and goes through the null and void political will that has existed from all Spanish governments to close Garoña. Once again it is clear what we can expect from the Spanish Government, from any of them. The most absolute lack of institutional respect and imposition in political, economic and even environmental matters. There is no agreement or covenant with whom one day yes and another you also do not have any and lack respect. Another example of impossibilities derived from Spain. Therefore we defend that we must take steps in the field of independence, such as to design and put into practice a peculiar policy of energy. Garoña is another example of Spanish taxation. Another example is that we must conquer sovereign spaces that allow us to define an energy policy that is independent of the interests of large energy companies, and focused on the social and strategic needs that we have as a country. As long as this is not the case, absolutely nothing will change. Seeing the state's passiveness of government, seeing that it did nothing, the Basque People assembled decided to register this initiative with submission, and you'll ask yourselves what the reason of the situation can be. As one of you will know, following the approval issued by the CSN last 4 November, in which at no time has the opinion of the Basque Government been given, we have two months to be able to file a dispute-administrative appeal to the environmental impact statement, for not having taken into account and Euskadi as affected by the possible reopening of the plant. Therefore, to the political consensus that already existed in this House, which was joined even by the People's Party, we must remain armed with edges to prevent reopening and thus take firm steps towards definitive dismantling. No one can say today in this House that we are faced with the same circumstances as last time, because that is not true. No one can deny Nuclenor's haste to close the issue of Garoña before 20 December, although, as I said earlier, all the governments that have passed through the Moncloa have defended the interests of energy, at least so far. When we talk about the interests of energy we refer specifically to what Natalia Fabra, professor of economics at Carlos III University in Madrid, pointed out in one of her articles and said: "There is no doubt that Garoña has completed its economic cycle, that is, its investment costs are recovered. Since the adoption of the Electricity Act in 1997, its owners have received CTCs and market prices much higher than their variable costs. The extension of Garoña's useful life would only further increase its supranormal benefits, resulting from the disparity between electricity costs and prices." He continued: "The high profits of Garoña do not come from the right or the greater risk assumed by its owners, because Garoña was built under a regulatory model that guaranteed its profitability. This guarantee was later extended through the CTCs, which Garoña perceived as part of the set of plants subject to the protective standard." I think it's all clear. Nuclear energy does not reduce costs, nor does it benefit citizens, it only favours Iberdrola and Endesa companies, and the politicians who end up on their boards of directors. This is called "swivel doors", and those who do not support the interests of citizens in institutions and reward the interests of companies are complicit and responsible. It can be said in a thousand ways, but reality is the only one: creating a nuclear energy is not cheaper, that's the Iberdronal and the Edes. And also for those who end up in the administration committee. But since, at least in this House, the consensus is wider and no one defends this kind of attitude towards corruption, as you have repeatedly told us, I will explain to you the amendment agreed with the Basque Nationalist and Socialist Group in Basque. The first of the points in the compromise amendment is, "The Basque Parliament urges the government to appeal against the environmental impact statement authorizing the temporary installation of a nuclear material warehouse at the Garoña nuclear power plant". The second point, "The Basque Parliament denounces the lack of information from the Government of Spain to the Basque institutions, which have received no information or consultation on this matter". Third of the points. "The Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain, in line with the repeated pronouncements of the Basque institutions, and especially the Alavesas, contrary to the continuity of the life of the central Santa María de Garoña, not to authorize a new licence for the reopening of these facilities". The fourth of the points. "The Basque Parliament will seek the European Commission's support for a possible re-opening of the Garoña nuclear power plant, to supervise the procedure for granting a hypothetical licence to open the Garoña nuclear power plant and to ensure that the safety requirements imposed after the Fukushima accident are met before a new licence is granted." "The Basque Parliament – last point – expresses its intention to participate in the inter-institutional commission for the follow-up of the process of dismantling the Garoña nuclear power plant, agreed by the General Councils of Araba. In this regard, it urges the Foral Diputation and the General Councils of Araba to set up the said commission as soon as possible." The Commission must not only be political, but also social, as we have agreed on these boards. To-day we are again placed in the presence of a mirror, and to-day we may show the people that politics is useful for something. Today we stand before a mirror; today we portray each other in this House; today we can demonstrate to the citizenry that from politics we can change things and defend the legitimate interests of the population in the face of the interests of the powerful. Today not only Araba is awaiting what each of the parties represented here are voting for, today the entire Basque population is, and I am sure that it will applaud a broad consensus on this in defense of the definitive dismantling of the Garoña nuclear power plant. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u18	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Muuna, sir. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u19	Yes, thank you, President. I think that we are dealing here with a number of issues which are all perfectly related and which we could differentiate into three. On the one hand, nuclear energy; on the other hand, the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power station, and, finally, the installation or not in that same place of a nuclear temporary warehouse. All this and the action taken by the Government of Spain on all these issues in recent times. With regard to nuclear energy, we think that in the current energy mix nuclear energy plays an important role and that it is therefore still necessary; that in the future it will be seen, but that today nuclear energy is necessary. We believe that a system with a lot of renewable energy needs a guaranteed base power, which will make it possible to compensate for the price and power ups and downs of renewables, also the peaks and valleys of demand, or the failures of other sources, and there nuclear power plays its role. If they are not nuclear, they have to be gas, fuel or coal thermal power plants that contaminate the atmosphere and depend on imported hydrocarbons or coal. That is why it seems to us good to retain the nuclear weapons that exist for that fundamental role, provided, of course, that they meet all the security conditions, which we have been demanding over the last few years. Nuclear energy has positive aspects and it also has negative aspects, on the other hand, like any source of energy. What are the positive aspects of nuclear energy? It is a cheap or cheaper energy than others, it is a clean or cleaner energy than others, it is an energy source that does not emit greenhouse gases, in this case as renewables, and it is an energy source that does not contribute significantly to climate change or that contributes less than other energy sources. It also has, of course, negative aspects. It is an energy that is generally poorly seen, that is, has a bad press, so to speak. There is a relevant social sensitivity around it that puts it in question. It is dangerous when nuclear power plants do not meet all the necessary technical requirements. And, on the other hand, and as another negative aspect, the storage of nuclear waste is complex and difficult. Therefore, like all energy sources, it has pros and cons, and I believe that all groups in this House should agree on this. That is why we have been arguing that the Garoña nuclear power plant, rigorously meeting all the requirements and all the safety conditions that are necessary, could continue to operate and that it cannot continue to operate if it does not meet all the technical requirements. I insist, if it does not meet all the technical requirements, it cannot continue to operate, neither this nuclear power station nor any other. Another matter, if we speak of, in particular, the nuclear power plant of Santa María de Garoña. It's a power plant that's been standing there for almost three years. It is a nuclear power plant that has been standing for three years – as the Basque Government's adviser here acknowledged – for economic reasons, not for technical reasons, but for economic reasons. It's a nuclear power plant that's over 40 years old. It is a nuclear power plant that has recently had certain technical problems that need to be solved. The renovation would bring it to a useful life of over 40 years. On the other hand, there is a social opposition in Euskadi and especially in Álava which clearly opposes the maintenance of this nuclear power plant. And this obviously has to be said and acknowledged. And there is also an institutional opposition. In addition to all this, in recent times, as a result of certain decisions of the Government of Spain, there has obviously been a lot of opacity, a lot of weaving, there has been a lot of obscurantism and, at the moment, ad hoc regulations have been created. That being the case, I believe that in this House we must be demanding, we must be very demanding with the Government of Spain in relation to the decisions that are taken in relation to this nuclear power plant. All this makes it necessary to act and demand that action be taken and that the Spanish Government act with rigour and transparency. And also, of course, with caution, duly explaining all the decisions that are taken. I therefore share this point with the rest of the groups who are indeed demanding that the Spanish Government be fully rigorous and transparent. In relation to the nuclear warehouse. If we have nuclear power and we have nuclear power plants, we need to have a nuclear warehouse, or rent it abroad and pay very high prices for it. I believe that this is also something we can all perfectly share: if there is nuclear energy, we need a nuclear warehouse. I mean, for being consistent, for not using demagogy. And so, I think this is also perfectly clear. On 9 October, the State Official Gazette published the study of the environmental impact favourable to an individualized temporary store of nuclear waste at the plant. It was, in our view, carried out in an untransparent manner and without consulting or informing the Basque institutions, in what has been a new error in the opaque course of the Spanish Government. And this way of proceeding from the Government of Spain in relation to this issue over the past few years is ending up becoming a machine for making anti-nuclear or anti-nuclear citizens. Instead of arguing, rather than explaining, rather than acting with maximum transparency, it is acting in this way, and this is obviously very negative. In view of all this, we are presenting this amendment in its entirety. What do we propose? We propose that this Parliament urge the Government of Spain to maintain all the security requirements and, therefore, to demand from Nuclenor all the necessary investments so that the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant could – if necessary – restart its activity, respecting and enforcing, in any case, all the European security regulations, all the technical requirements and all the international requirements, without any exception, and informing the political parties and society on time of all the relevant facts and decisions. That is to say, we also demand maximum rigour here, maximum transparency. On the second point, we propose that this Parliament urge the Government of Spain to maintain a fluid dialogue with the Basque Government, and to inform the Basque institutions concerned and affected of all the debates taking place and of all the decisions taken regarding the immediate future of the nuclear power plant in Santa María de Garoña and the possible installation in that place of a nuclear warehouse, given both the political position of the Basque institutions, which are effectively contrary to the maintenance of the nuclear power plant in Garoña, as well as the characteristics of the nuclear power plant and the social sensitivity that exists, especially in the historical territory of Álava. I think it is a demanding amendment with the Spanish Government, I think it is a coherent amendment and I think it is perfectly reasonable. I think it is perfectly defendable, at least by some other groups in this House. In relation to the transactional – and I'm done – obviously nothing is surprising about what appears there. This is basically what you have defended in recent times. He's keeping that same line. In any case, I would like to ask you – since you introduce five broad points and touch on different issues, all of them very interesting – why you do not all demand that the Nuclear Security Council be decolonized from political parties. Why do they not require the Nuclear Security Council to be professionalized? Since you question it, certainly rightly, and since you even ask for the European Commission's protection, I think it could have been an interesting point that you, even those political parties within that council, demanded its depoliticisation. They could do it and they don't. But perhaps in your turn you can explain this to me. It would be a good step forward, because in all its arguments it is dropped – and I say it is certainly right – that the Nuclear Security Council is not a council we can trust and that it is politicized and that it is taken by political parties such as the PP and the PSOE. I think it would be a good time for the PP and, above all, the PSOE to demand their decolonization, their professionalization. That way, I think your compromise amendment would be much more complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u20	Thank you, Mr. Maneiro. Mrs. Rojo, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u21	Yes, thank you, President. And good morning to you all. Garoña's nuclear power station is a classic in this Parliament and it is above all a classic when election campaigns are near. Here, in the Basque Parliament, and in the rest of the Basque institutions, mainly in the Alavesas. On this occasion, he returns to the door of an election, but on this occasion with a new element: the possibility of temporarily installing a nuclear warehouse. It was during a socialist government – even if you don't think so, Mr López de Munain – when more steps were taken on the road to the closure of the plant. But with the last government of the People's Party, the Rajoy government, the situation, far from being resolved, has finished turning around. A nuclear warehouse is now on the scene, the possibility to install it temporarily and, in case there is still any doubt – although I doubt it – the Socialists want to make our commitment clear. With the PSOE ruling, neither Garoña will be reopened nor will it serve as a nuclear warehouse. A commitment to the present and future legislatures. As I said, it was a socialist government that worked at the closure of the plant the only time it stopped. And first, now, and then we'll defend the same position. In January of last year began the project of the People's Party to reopen Garoña. A project contrary to the feeling of this Parliament, of the Alavese society and of the Victorian one, ignoring the opinion of the organizations working in environmental matters, and forgetting the need to face an energy debate for the future, going beyond speeches and accompanying investment, bets on research and credit for new technologies, with the aim that renewable energies can finally develop at the pace that is necessary, develop at the required pace in order to be able to respond to the needs of a society like ours. As progressive governments invest, develop, investigate and study the future of clean and future energy, the People's Party intends to reopen debates of the past with nuclear power plants rather than obsolete, as is the case with Santa Maria de Garoña. Earlier this year my group presented an urgent initiative to challenge this administrative decision and to express its rejection of the entire procedure initiated by the Rajoy Government. That decision had important support in this House, as is often the case with Garoña's subjects. We support all socialist parliamentarians, all those of the Basque Nationalist Party, all those of EH Bildu and one of the People's Party. It doesn't look like it's going to be like this today. I'm sure there won't be any dissenting votes. Whoever said he was going to be consistent and defend where he was thinking about it seems to have failed. And that proclaimed influence of the Basques in the leadership of the National People's Party is not seen in this case, nor in others; but today it is up to us to talk about Garoña. The Rajoy Government, however much it has changed its attitudes, for reasons outside its own agenda, continues to practice what it knows about politics: to confuse absolute majority with absolute power; to confuse the interests of companies with the interests of citizens. In the record of this nuclear power plant there are some remarkable facts that have taken place in recent years. In February 2012, the PP reaffirmed its intention to extend until 2019; in July 2012, the PP amended the closing decree and granted Nuclenor two months to request the extension. By the way, two months that the plant passes by waiting for the regulatory uncertainty of the sector to pass. In August 2012, the energy reform of the Rajoy government came and left the extension in the air: large economic investments would be essential in order to justify the continuity of the power plant, and it seems that money does not want to talk. In December 2012, Nuclenor decided the definitive cessation leaving a loophole: in the event of a tax exemption, we will reconsider the extension. In May 2013, the plant requested a one-year extension granted to it and, in June 2013, Industry considered that the economic situation outweighed the security situation and confirmed the closure. As it is clear, the Socialists believe that there is a little serious marketing between the Nuclear Security Council and the Nuclear Security Council, practicing a pulse of economic benefits and possible counterparties, leaving aside basic issues such as security, transparency and participation in decision-making. It is surprising that at a time when the energy debate is taking an absolutely opposite direction, when most political parties and a majority of citizens are considering a clean, affordable and secure future energy development, the PP government is betting on the energy of the past, less clean, more expensive and certainly more insecure. That is why we consider it necessary to have a state energy pact, which we should have started working on in this Autonomous Community, and in the agreement between the various parties it is essential to ensure the development of renewable energy, including the end of nuclear energy in Spain. With this scenario, in which it seemed more than obvious the improbable, unnecessary and unjustified extension of Garoña, in the face of a refusal of the majority of the political parties, with a Basque, Alavesa and Victorian society positioned in renewable energy and far from nuclear energy, there is the position of the Basque People's Party and of Spain. But in the face of general elections, in which some want to leave everything tied and well tied, the Nuclear Security Council meets to give light and answers to this issue; answers that logically should not have questions. And a voice breaks the unanimity of that Council, with a particular justified vote and more than argued by someone with a trajectory that seems to know what he's talking about. And instead of assessing the content of the vote, the lack of uniformity – rather than unity – is disqualified, confusing the Nuclear Security Council with something else. Narbona asks that the council not change its regulatory practices and maintain the maximum period of 10 years for the eventual renovation of the central of Garoña. For the first time in Spain a nuclear power plant requests authorization for a period of more than 10 years, and for the first time a nuclear power plant requests to extend its activity to 60 years. Narbona also considers it essential that both the company and the public know from the first moment the time horizon with which the Nuclear Security Council will analyse the fulfilment of the required requirements, something that we all do not know at the moment. All Spanish nuclear power plants were designed for a lifetime of 40 years. Garoña, one of the oldest in the European Union, already has 43, and the list of requirements formulated by the CSN to assess its renewal reflects its important shortcomings that no one has ever questioned. Narbona calls for maximum transparency and public participation in the process of assessing Nuclenor's application, in line with the requirements of the Espoo and Aarhus conventions, as well as the newly adopted Nuclear Safety Directive. However, we know the content of the explanation of who opposes the unanimity of the Nuclear Security Council; we know what the Spanish Government seems to be trying to do before the Government changes from 20 December; we know the position of the public who on countless occasions has gone out to the street to express themselves and say that it is against the reopening; we know politicians that one day in a disscene way they vote one thing and when they change responsibilities within their party they say another; we know the need to invest in the broad sense of the word in the deepening and development of renewable energies; we know what can happen in the face of a nuclear power plant disaster; we know the possibility of continuing to have energy without Garoña. The responsibility of a government is that its citizens can have energy and it is clear that, after Mr Zapatero's government, that Spain can dispense from Garoña for its citizens to continue to have services; and we know the political and citizen's refusal to a nuclear cemetery. And worst of all, we know a People's Party that, knowing everything, like everyone else, prefers to continue to wink at companies, drowning renewable investors, denying climate change and striving to maintain nuclear energy as long as it can, despite everything and everyone else. Today this Parliament will again stand against the positions of the People's Party, as the signatures of the compromise amendment remain. We will be a large majority again, hopefully the Government of Spain will change so that we can begin to build everything that has been destroyed and to build a mistake as big as the reopening of Garoña or the establishment of a nuclear cemetery. Let us hope that we do not have to hear speeches in this rostrum, taking advantage of the electoral campaign, which at the moment when some govern goes against what is said; because the speeches endure everything, but the citizens cannot be deceived. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u22	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Mr. Ramíz-Ecudero is your word. Mr. FRAMEUR-ESCURO, ISUSI: Good morning. Every year we vote a proposition about the Central Nuclear of Görha in Parliament, but today is more serious than ever, because the Council of Nuclear Security has given permission to provide for temporary disposal. That means the door opens to turn the Plant on again, because otherwise it doesn't understand the purpose of this new store. As the Socialist spokesman said, we have talked a lot about Garoña in this Parliament and it has had three phases. The first, four years ago when we called for the closure of the plant; then, after the day of the innocent of the year 2012, when the temporary business self-closure of the plant took place, we obviously called for dismantling, so that future temptations of reopening would be avoided, and today we are here, not because we are talking about Garoña, but because we have been mobilized by the last communiqué of the Nuclear Security Council, and we have to protest against that communiqué in two ways, in form and in substance. In the form, because, of course, we have heard from the press and because there has been no official communication either to the General Councils of Álava, to the Parliament of Álava, to the affected municipalities, or to the Basque Government. We understand that in this matter, in this type of matter, there can be no administrative borders, but simply physical borders. And we believe that both the citizens of Álava and Burgos deserved clearer information than what happened. From the bottom point of view, we have the feeling that Garoña is reopening. The people usually better informed, even make bets already that the government in office of the PP, before the elections of 20 December, will authorize Nuclenor to reopen Garoña. And why? Because Nuclenor called for a new nuclear warehouse. Obviously a private company does not ask for a new nuclear warehouse if it does not intend to use it, and in order to use it, of course, it has to start the nuclear company again, so that it produces waste and goes to that warehouse. Secondly, if the Nuclear Security Council grants Nuclenor permission for that warehouse, in a covert way, in the background, it is also acknowledging that it will then give him permission to start operating, because if he did not give him permission to reopen the power station, he would not have given him a prior authorization to install a nuclear storage facility either, by pure logic; it is obviously not necessary now when the power station is stopped, but the storage facility that will be needed if the Garoña nuclear power station starts operating someday. For all this we have the suspicion that there is a plot to start Garoña or for the permission to start Garoña to arrive before the elections. I am not going to talk about electricity tariffs, I am not going to talk about electricity, because obviously the last three years without Garoña working have shown us calmly that it is not important in the electricity system, and that you can live very well without Garoña, and that electricity has not gone up, and if it has gone up it has not been for the effect of Garoña. I'm just gonna talk about security today. Mr. Maneiro is not here, but he said we talked about nuclear energy. No, no, Today, if we read the compromise amendment correctly, the five points speak only of the Garoña nuclear power plant. That's not talking about nuclear power, it's talking about a completely obsolete, old power plant whose main danger is safety. We understand that the profit of a company and the subsequent distribution of dividends to shareholders is one of the engines of the current economic system. It is an engine of an economic system that time will tell if it is good or bad, just or unfair, better or worse, but it is a system that in the west of Europe we have given ourselves away. But it should be remembered from an ethical point of view, that the profit of a company and the dividend of some shareholders have to have some brake. A business activity cannot be allowed when the dividend to be distributed is based on the danger of the tens of thousands of people living in the vicinity of the plant. Attention should also be paid to this ambition, or to this greed for benefits, because, in that case, they may have or may be borne at the risk of tens of thousands of people living near the plant. The plant, it has been said here, has been going on for 40 years, is going to be extended until 2031, which would have something like 55 years of operation, is going to be extended by 40% more. And one thing to remember clearly: the reactor manufacturers thought about 40 years, they didn't think about 55. And what has been done so far has obviously been a retreading of the plant and can be retreaded moderately light things. We all see the roads when we go in summer because there are some bumps that, instead of fixing the whole firm of the road, because the bump is filled with asphalt and we know that in four months there will be another bump again. But it's an easy, cheap and economical measure. But that which is done with a road and with a bump should not be done with a nuclear power plant. The same company recognized that the vessel had fissures and I can imagine that these fissures have not been covered by Pepe Gotera and Otilio with Immediate glue, but that a completely ultra-safe material will have been used. But as surely as the material is that, a fissure of a concrete that has been there for 50 years is being covered, and that fissure, if one day that retreading of the vessel is rejuvenating and there is another fissure, there is no going to appear, no steam of water or hot water is going to escape; a radioactive residue is going to escape that, as soon as it is in contact with nature, with the atmosphere, will be completely uncontrollable by the hand of man and will simply depend on the will, direction and speed of the wind. Many times you have to visualize the age of the installations. The time is relative and maybe 40 years seem to a person little, much, too much or nothing. I set an example three years ago and I'll repeat it in a minute. And the example is: What do the Seat 850 and the Garoña nuclear power plant look like? Obviously the 850 would not pass now even the most generous of the ITVs, would not be homologated in any country of the world and yet it was a car that was used. What's your relationship with Garoña? Well, they're the same year. And just as we wouldn't ride an 850, I don't know why we have to trust a nuclear power plant that was born in the same year. The first car of this brand was manufactured and sold in 1966. And the Garoña nuclear power plant began to be built in 1966, although it was later inaugurated in 1970. And speaking of security, I want to talk about something that no one has yet said but it seems important to me. We no longer need to have a Julio Verne who comes with his warm imagination to tell us about the future, to paint us a hypothetical nuclear holocaust. Julio Verne doesn't have to come, because sadly we have had, let them be known, three times called Harrisburg, Chernobyl and Fukushima. In Fukushima we're not going to manipulate the data either. There were 18,000 deaths but they were not due to the nuclear accident, they were due to the tsunami. The nuclear accident did not cause many deaths because, first of all, almost all of them were killed by the previous tsunami and because the tsunami gave time to the evacuation. But we have to look at how Fukushima is doing today, if we want to think a little bit about what we have the tens of thousands of people who live on a 20-kilometre perimeter around the Garoña nuclear power plant. In Fukushima, it is said soon, but there were 170,000 displaced, of whom today 80,000 still live outside their villages. In fact, a month and a half ago the Japanese Government granted permission to a village called Nahara, which is 20 kilometres from Fukushima, so that its 8,000 inhabitants could, if they wanted, live there again. And the calculations are that until 2017, that is, six and a half years after the nuclear accident, not all the people who moved can return. Fukushima's owner has acknowledged that it will take 40 years to seal the nuclear reactor completely and to ensure that there will be no escape from water or air. I don't think anyone wants that for the Alavese municipalities in southern Araba. I mean, I think that just by visualizing what happened in Fukushima, there are other elements that no longer have to enter. We can no longer talk about electricity tariffs, the importance of the sector, or the electric model. We just need to talk about security. And in security, of course, we don't trust. We do not trust, apart from the fact that the Nuclear Security Council is political, professional or whatever. We do not trust a series of measures. The first is that, that the plant was made for 40 years and something that is done for 40 years, obviously, by the art of birlibirloque or however much it is repaired, it cannot be extended for 40% more, until 55. I believe that the vote is clear and I would like to recall what I said at the beginning. We're here to talk about Garoña, we're not here to talk about nuclear power. Mr López de Munain, I have absolutely no doubt that the position of the Basque Government, of the Lehendakari Urkullu, has always been very clear in favour, firstly, of the closure of Garoña and, secondly, of the dismantling of it. I hope that today we will have a majority like the one we had months ago in this vote, although I am afraid it will not be possible. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. Passing over the uncorrectional teams, Mr. Barrio, representing the Basque Potion Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u24	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We are one month away from the elections and today it is time to bring Garoña to the central government, during the pre-election period. Well, let's just understand that it's a little bit of what happens. I am going to avoid the attacks on the People's Party or the Government of Spain, on the Nuclear Security Council, and I am going to focus on the text and the request for the initiative. For the umpteenth time and in the same keys, today we again debate about the nuclear power plant of Santa María de Garoña, about its continuity as a nuclear product company. It is the non-legislative motion, motion 21, of which we have recently discussed in the Basque Parliament. Well, well, it's the 21st, and on the same keys and on the same terms. And well, here we are. The last two initiatives were approved by the House on 19 February 2015 and on 5 June 2014. In this respect, the compromise amendment does not say anything new in terms of the political debate on this issue, but, well, it seems to some that it may be opportune to find a recurring excuse to go up against the Spanish Government. That is the novelty, which is certainly not a novelty in this House. I remain with the views expressed by my group in the two plenary sessions mentioned above and following the motion and the non-legislative proposal discussed in those two plenary sessions. And the arguments that were raised by our spokesman in that case, for we make them ours in this plenary. They are worth it now, as well as in the two plenary sessions that we have mentioned. We have voted in my group for the closure of the nuclear power plant and we continue to keep it in this plenary, in relation to our proposals or to what are the analyses, the assessments we have made, I say again, in those plenary sessions of 19 February and on 5 June last year. But we do not go, or do not want, and we do not intend to make any complaints to the Government of Spain. The Basque Government will have exercised the functions it understands to be its own, to which it is entitled and, in this regard, we are not going to denounce that attitude. That is why we will call for a separate vote on the points in the compromise amendment. We cannot vote in favour of the second point, but we will do so on the other points. I hope that the parliamentary groups that sign the initiative will not oppose voting separately, I do not think it would be logical. Of course, we do not agree with the repeated statements made by you against the Government of Spain. But, in any case, we remain in our basic position, which is to bet on the end of the life of the nuclear power plant of Santa Maria de Garoña. We reaffirm ourselves in the approaches previously maintained in this House. In that sense, there are five points in the compromise amendment, five points which, except for the second, which is the complaint you want to make to the Government of Spain, we have already voted in this House. That is, we have already voted, and we voted in the affirmative, and we will do so now. Point number 1, where he talks about the resources, as he was voted on 19 of the 2 of 2015. It was also voted on because it said "Parliament agrees to challenge and urge the government to directly challenge any act...". Well, we've already voted. And we vote in favour and we will vote in favour now. Point 2, no, because there is that complaint to the Government of Spain that we do not share. But point 3 continues to speak of the closure, of not authorizing a new licence, referring to the pronouncements of the Basque institutions, especially the Alavesas, we also voted on it, we voted on 5 June 2014. I mean, it's the same thing, plus there's a transcript. Number 4, the same. "Applying for European Union protection" we voted literally as we now voted on June 5, 2014 and February 19, 2015. So in that sense we are in favour. And there is no doubt that the same applies to participation in the inter-institutional commission, once it has been requested to dismantle, to close, to participate in it. We agree; we have already voted on it, also on 19 February this year. So what is left to me, that is, if you are so kind, we will vote for points and, except for the second point, we will vote for the rest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u25	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing on the answers, EH Collector, lópez de Muna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u26	Yes, before I begin with my second intervention, I would like to greet the political representatives of different Alaves institutions who demonstrate that this issue is of great concern – and much – to the Alaves political representation, at least to some of the political groups represented. You said, Mr Carmelo Barrio, that the debate has already taken place, that we are faced with the same circumstances, at least in time and that there is nothing new, that we do not bring anything new either in the amendment that has been made between the different groups. I deny you the biggest one. We are talking at the first of the points of discussion, or at least it says, that the Basque Government should act for the non-opening of a nuclear warehouse. And, as far as I know, that's something new, because we had no record of it. And I'll tell you again, the problem doesn't just put you in what it is. It's not a temporary problem, it's a political problem. We are no longer talking about technical matters, Mr Maneiro, it is a political decision. Do we want an Arab without a Garoña or do we want an Arab with a Garoña, in danger to the Alavesa society? It is that you two, who always become advocates of citizenship, question again the interests of Alavesa citizenship and its security. And here, the People's Party, which you will remember and which we have already begun to miss in your speeches, Mr Maroto, when he came to this House, went down to this atrium and told us all and all "I have news to give them, the People's Party will vote in favour of this proposal". It's over. The People's Party will vote and follow Genoa's guidelines, against all the legitimate interests of the citizens of Alavesa. You asked for a vote on points. For our part, we do not think it is necessary for it to be voted on by points, we will even ask you to withdraw. And we will ask that they be portrayed as they are, because beyond the classic posture of the People's Party, we must make decisions, and above all we must take a proactive attitude in defence of the interests of Araba, a territory that you claim to defend and, I repeat, you have not defended it nor will you ever defend it, because above and above the interests of the Alavesa will always place the interests of these energy companies. The closure of Garoña was also said to be a political change in one government or another from Madrid. We're still denying the older one. The closure of Garoña, at least the temporary one, has been the result of the work and the popular mobilization of the Alaves and Alavesas, and the definitive closure and dismantling will also be thanks to that popular movement and to that popular work carried out by the Alavesa society, and never – because it has never been so – by the color change of one government or another. But if they close it, welcome, but do it. Because it should also be remembered that the People's Party has shielded its presence in the CSN, it has shielded it for up to six years. The representation he had previously held, in this case a political office set up by ICU, has been assumed by the People's Party. They have an absolute majority in the CSN. In other words, the technical decisions on Garoña's future will be decided and emanated by pro-nuclear people. So, and I repeat again, we are not in a technical debate, we are in a political debate, and that is what needs to be done. And finally, to invite all of you, all of you who are here, to the demonstration to be held on 19 December and which has been convened by the Arab platform without Garoña. Because since all of us here are so consistent in the rejection of nuclear energy and we want an Arab without a girl, you can only be present in it and claim what Euskal Herria Bildu has always been claiming, without moving from our site. Consistency. And without having the need to change from one government to another, because what we are clear is that the interests of the citizenry are far above the future jobs of potential former ministers and politicians.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u27	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u28	Yes, thank you, President. This is, of course, a very important issue of concern to society and, therefore, it is necessary to demand that all political representatives and spokespersons involved in this debate be frank, speak clearly, do not use demagoguery and are not hypocritical. And that, therefore, you clarify everything you have to do with your political position on this issue, without compromise, in a clear, meridian way. When someone defends something, they have to be able to defend it with arguments. And when defended with arguments they will be perfectly respectable political positions. But we do not accept the trap, nor the concealment, nor the refusal of certain political representatives to clarify certain issues that Basque society wants to know directly, in order to know, I say, what each political party defends in relation to this issue. Let's see: It seems to me very good that we defend all renewable energies. But I think it is an immense hypocrisy to sell the idea that renewable energy is a substitute or an alternative to nuclear energy, because this is false. And, therefore, it can be said that at the present time, as Mrs Tapia herself explained at the time, nuclear energy is necessary today. And, therefore, there are no traps, it can't be said that this is solved with a bet decided by renewable energies. Because this is absolutely false. But, in any case, it seems good to me that renewable energy is being defended. And I think it is right that all the technical requirements that are necessary for any nuclear power station to continue to operate, as we do in our entire amendment. And it seems logical and reasonable to defend maximum security for Victorian, Alavesa and Basque society. It's perfectly reasonable. And it seems to me good, moreover, and we have done so all these years, to denounce the truisms between the Government of Spain and certain energy companies. Sounds good to me, we've done it ourselves. And it seems to me good that the existing market, as has been reiterated today, between the Nuclear Security Council and the Nuclear Safety Council should be denounced. And it seems to me very well that it is claimed that the voices of the different Basque political representatives and the Basque institutions themselves have to be heard. And it seems to me good, and we ourselves do, that we demand maximum information, maximum transparency, maximum veracity and zero opacity in relation to this issue. This is all right with me. But you have to be brave. We must also talk about nuclear energy and everything that surrounds this issue, because Mr Ramírez-Escudero has come to say that we are not here to talk about nuclear energy. Man, I think the subject is quite related. I think it is quite related to the maintenance or not of the Garoña nuclear power plant with nuclear power. I think it's quite related. And therefore, a number of issues need to be clarified here. In particular, you should clarify a number of issues, both the Socialist Party and the People's Party, as well as the Basque Nationalist Party. You are in favour of the closure of the Garoña nuclear power plant. Are they against all the nuclear power plants that exist in Spain? Are you going to propose shutting down all nuclear power plants? You can answer if you want this question. Will they dismantle when they reach the government, if they arrive, or are maintained, all the nuclear power plants? Or will they keep them and we will continue to pay to send the nuclear waste to France? What exactly will you do? You denounce, you have denounced, and Mrs Red has rightly denounced the marketing between the Nuclear Security Council and the Nuclear Safety Council. Are you going to propose the professionalization of the Nuclear Security Council? Are you going to take your hands off that Nuclear Security Council? Or are they still going to be inside him? What are you going to do? Are they going to be consistent or are they going to keep doing cheap demagogy? Are you going to answer these questions? Because I think it's important. I think UPyD gets wet on this issue. I think someone has to say these things. I think we are brave at this point in saying the things we say, which, on the other hand, I think are perfectly reasonable, because we are saying that the Central Nuclear of Garoña must be shut down definitively if it does not meet all the safety requirements. It must be closed. And, Mr Ramírez-Escudero, we do not trust anyone, we do not trust the Government of Spain or the Nuclear Security Council, but we do not trust you, who is also over 40 years old, by the way, we do not trust, we do not trust. What we are saying is, all the European technical requirements and all those that exist and can be implemented to ensure that this plant is safe must be rigorously met. But I say, please explain why they have not included in that transaction the depoliticization and professionalization of the Nuclear Security Council.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u29	Please finish, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u30	Speak clear. Let's move, let's also touch those issues, don't just make propaganda for the upcoming elections within what is Álava-Euskadi. Explain your position on nuclear energy. Are they going to be consistent? Have they been consistent in the past? Are they going to shut down all the nuclear power plants? Are you going to do it? Are they really going to do it? Let's see if they get to the government, whether they do this or not. We continue to maintain our amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u31	Mr. Maneiro, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u32	I'm done. Let us therefore respect all the technical requirements, let there be transparency, let the Basque institutions be informed of all the decisions that are taken, let us act with rigour, let there be no demagoguery, let us not be hypocritical, let us speak clearly. All this is what we ask...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u33	Thank you, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u34	This is reflected in our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u35	Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u36	Yes, thank you, Madam President. For being synthetic, to give me time to say the four ideas I mean. Firstly, Mr Barrio, the responsibility of the People's Party goes beyond giving more or less votes to what is happening in this House. It is a question of you, who are part of the National People's Party, of the People's Party of Spain, being able to convince your Government to close down that power station that you seem to want to close down, and this is not an aesthetic debate and you want to profile yourselves by voting for points. It is a political debate, and you have to choose and you have to know what you have to say to the Spanish People's Party about what needs to be done with the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant. A political debate, Mr Barrio, beyond what has happened, what we have discussed and how many times we have discussed it. And to say to Mr Maneiro, who also serves to answer Mr Barrio, that renewable energy does not actually supply all energy, but it is clear that if governments do not invest in renewable energy, do not invest in research and do not invest in new technologies, they will never be able to develop in order to be able to dispense with something that the Socialists believe must be dispensed with, which is nuclear energy, and I answer it. Do the Socialists want to shut down all nuclear energies? Yes, progressively, as they end their useful life. That is what the PSOE says today, what it said yesterday and what it will say tomorrow, and the Santa Maria de Garoña nuclear power plant has finished its useful life and it is wanted to give an extension to its utility that the owners of the power plant do not even want. The central of Santa Maria de Garoña wants to be maintained by the pride of the People's Party. In Spain there has to be nuclear energy, yes or yes, despite its citizens, in spite of political opinion and despite everything, and in case we have to close it, if we see that security does not meet, then we will put a nuclear cemetery for Santa María de Garoña to continue. This is already a political pulse that the People's Party wants to maintain. Santa Maria de Garoña doesn't want her, neither the owners of the company, nor the citizens, nor the politicians, nor anyone. It is a political bet made by a political party, which, depending on where it is debated, says some things or other. And I'll say more, Santa María de Garoña contributes 1.35% of Spain's electricity. It's absolutely indispensible. It was demonstrated with the government of Rodriguez Zapatero that Garoña could be closed and nothing happened here. And that's why the shutdown of nuclear power was proposed. But it is a debate that we repeat and repeat and that some are committed to manipulating and taking where it is not. Nuclear energy is a political option. Some have an energy model and others have another. Those of us who defend a type of energy that passes through renewable energies, with a progressive shutdown of nuclear energy, are the socialists, and that is what we have always defended, when we govern and when we do not govern. And then there are other political parties, which is the right wing of Spain, which wants to continue defending the shame of the power stations, which is Santa Maria de Garoña, saying some things in Euskadi, because it gets closer. But the people's party in Madrid is the one that has to make the decisions. And everything is being done in energy policy to promote that situation. Renewable energy investors are drowning, there is no hard investment in research, everything that goes with energy progress is being shut down to end up defending something that they only defend against everything. I don't think we can do politics behind the backs of society. And on the subject of Garoña is what the People's Party does. And Mr. Maneiro spoke of being frank, clear, not demagoguery, not hypocrisy, messages without compromise. I said in my first intervention and to make it clear, with the PSOE ruling neither reopens Garoña nor will it serve as a nuclear warehouse. I believe that this is clear, clear and a commitment of a political party of government, which intends to govern Spain from December 20. And this is commitment, without deceiving citizens, without saying one thing here and one thing there. Here's what's there. With a clear energy policy, with concrete commitments, but what cannot be done is to deceive citizens when they are interested. So shut down nuclear energies, yes, in a progressive way. Is the chick indispensable? Yes, 1.35% of the electricity in all of Spain. A political debate, Mr Barrio. Yeah. An aesthetic debate? No, no, In politics, no issue is worth profiled. Here you have to face it. And we have to say what the Basque People's Party is trying to say about the Santa Maria de Garoña power station. The Socialist Party of Euskadi, therefore, here today, believes that this amendment should be voted on in a block, so that the People's Party can stand in front of the mirror and stop messing with the subject of Garoña. What Maroto was saying here, which is what you wanted us to sell that defends in your first intervention, is not what the People's Party defends. They have him there, in Madrid and it seems that quite little influence, neither Mr Maroto nor Mr Alonso, with what has to do with Garoña. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u37	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Euzko Abertzaleak taldearen ordezkaria, Ramírez-Escudero jauna, zurea da hitza. RAMÍREZ-SCUDERO ISUSI jaunak: Mr.Maneiro, one of the few truths you have said today is that I am over 40 years old. Obviously. But you've just turned 41, too, but I'm not going to ask you to be dismantled, because you're harmless, because even if you're the same age as the Garoña power plant reactor. But I wanted to insist on what I said before. I mean, whenever there's a debate in Garoña, you talk about nuclear energy in general. And today we're not here to talk. If you read the five points of the compromise amendment, you will realize that we have come to talk about Garoña, not nuclear energy in majestic terms, but about Garoña's old age. Because we're not talking about the Garoña plant either, we're talking about his old age. If the station in Garoña was five or ten years old, we wouldn't be here talking about that. Just our complaint is because it's been 40 years, because in theory it should be closed and because they don't want to prolong life four or five, no; it's because they want to prolong it 15 years longer. Which is almost 40% of its useful life. I repeat that we rely much more on the builder who made the nuclear reactor, who wished him a useful life of 40 years, than on the patches that could be put on and the subsequent decision of the Nuclear Energy Council. We do not trust, because we obviously think that the economic life of that company is already done, there is nothing more to do. I would also like to repeat the previous argument, so that all the sticks do not go to the Madrid Government, distribute some more, and also remember, as I said before, that a company cannot trust all its profit based on the danger of tens of thousands of people living around the place where that profit is generated. And that the decision is also not only made by the Government of Madrid, the Higher Nuclear Energy Council, but also by the company in question. I just repeat those two arguments, old age and security. And I think they are unquestionable arguments against which absolutely no evidence can be presented. We could talk about nuclear energy issues, but as soon as we talk about Garoña's old age and security, as a result of that old age, obviously no one can vote no, because everything is very clear. It is a matter of subtracting from the year 70 the beginning of the activity until December 28, 2012 and then adding, if there is any bad luck, the other 15 years that can fall on us if the government in office of the PP again authorizes it to come into operation. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u38	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. And to conclude the representative of the Basque Popula Group, Mr Barri, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u39	Thank you very much, President. I believe that it is totally unfair for an issue like this to prevent us from voting for points in your approach. It's totally unfair. Because this debate too, I say again, we have had it on other occasions. There have been times when points have been voted on, there have been times when no one has opposed these issues. I think that if you are opposed to that point vote, there would be a political approach here. That's it. Not of sincerity in relation to the issue, but of electoral campaign. We are already used to that with this issue. In any case, we have been the ones who have made the effort, an effort that you do not thank us, an effort that you do not thank us, and that you want to limit us in relation to what we propose. I have made it clear what our position is on the points of the compromise amendment. This is not the plenary of the Congress of Deputies, it is not the Council of Ministers, this is not the plenary of the Nuclear Security Council, this is the plenary of the Basque Parliament, and if we need to facilitate the agreements, we need to facilitate them, we must not slap them, we must not slap them in the face of politics, Mr López de Munain, which is what you are doing with this issue. We have already made an approach to what we are prepared to move forward, to what we have moved forward and in that sense to try to use this Garoña affair, only as a political ram against the People's Party, against the Government, cannot be, it is not fair, in a debate here in the Basque Parliament. It gives the impression that you are the most favorable supporters to keep Garoña open, to keep splashing in politics, splashing in victimism, and that we are ultimately the ones who will be the most interested in your closure, in relation to the debates that you of politics pose to us here. We have already said what we are willing to say, we have already said it, we have made it very clear. The number one point when talking about resources, we already voted on it before, is a copy, that is, there is nothing new. The statement of 19 February also stated that any action would be brought against any activity, decision; that is, we have already voted on that issue, we voted on it, that is, we were in agreement with that issue. In point three, "The Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain, in line with the repeated pronouncements of the Alaves institutions, not to authorize the license...". We have already voted on it, that is, that this is nothing new, that is to say, it has to allow us to vote on this. The same applies to the European Commission, paragraph 4, of which we have had two votes in this Parliament, on 5 June last year and on 19 February this year. We have already voted on it, because let us again vote on it. Point five, which is what concerns the interinstitutional and interdepartmental committees. Well, we've already voted on it, it's consumable. But do not let us vote against point number two, we are not going to do it and we are not going to do it because we must not denounce anything from the Spanish Government. If recourse is to be made, legal recourse must be made to the relevant issues. But to denounce what the Spanish Government exercises in law and the fruit of its competences and capabilities? We cannot denounce that; we will have to challenge it in any case, but denounce it, no. I mean, in law too, how things happen. I'm really sorry they won't let us vote separately. I want to make it clear what our position is. Our position on this issue, with Garoña, is the approach that was taken at the plenary sessions on 19 February and 5 June last year. I believe that these issues have become very clear. But I would also like to say that one day today, a day of the memory of Santiago Brouard, which we all condemn, which we have remembered in this House. There's an outstanding subject, Mr. López de Munain, and he's not a nuclear energy victim, he's an ETA victim, his name is José María Ryan, engineer at the Lemoniz nuclear power plant, killed by ETA, and you still don't condemn the murder. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u40	Thank you, Mr. Carmelo. If we're going to argue with each other, we'll stick to the vote. I want to understand, Mr. Łódź de Munin, not with vote points. We'll vote for EH Collect, Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendment that Euccany has signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters 64; the opponents 10; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u41	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Motion, introduced by the members of the Dava Blanco de Angulo EHGR, concerning the contributions of the immigrants. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs. Blanco's round of the team that made the motion is yours to introduce the word and get it out of hand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u42	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Chief physician, good morning to all. When we introduced this motion, we didn't know it would be so necessary right now, we'd say more than ever. Unfortunately, the events of Paris or Syria have produced severe consequences. In such a state as this the losers are always equal, that is to say, civilians, the weaker and the innocent. And the generalization of history as it has taught us is not at all good and bad consequences...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u44	...that the whole society has suffered. A collective suffering from many consequences is that of the immigrants. At this moment there is distrust, fear, and hatred in some cases. All we have to do is look at social networks, or the attacking paintings appearing in a gastric door. Events like those that have occurred in recent days, unfortunately, help to feed xenophobic, racist and unjust discourses. Those who lose are always the same people, and those who win are also the same people, who are enriched by the suffering of civilian deaths in Paris, Syria, Pakistan and so many other places. The truth is that if 15 days ago we raised this question to the councilman because we saw it necessary and because the subject we raised was of concern to us and continues to be of concern to us, today we believe that this motion is more necessary than ever. Therefore, let us take advantage of all the instruments we have amongst us, let us make an commitment to the stereotypes and false prejudices. Let's make pedagogias to get what they call data into the crowd. We accept it, and we also value it today with the other institutions, the relationship and collaboration with other social agents. But EH Collect thinks the time has come for further strides. We share Mr Toña's analysis of awareness-raising policies. True, we cannot change the impression or opinion that part of this society has about migrant people from one day to the next. The message has to go down like the sirimiri. But it must not be forgotten that from time to time, it is not bad for a small chaperone to fall that shuts us up to our bones. That's why we think it's the basic investigation of the Euskal observation of the Inmigration view. Many useful data are found in this report to end with stereotypes, which is exactly what we have to take advantage of. We know, according to the view report, that the collective contributions made by strangers in Basque Autonomy are positive. It's in prosperity, 2008, crisis, 2012. And we have objective data to say that the incomes were 443 million at first, and then they went up to 631 million, especially because social security settlements and the IRPF went up. This shows that many of these collectives have worked in the Eucharistic trade, contrary to what a great many people think, although they have been one of the most influential collective members of the EAE. It is a hypothesis which we have heard more than once, that strangers contribute less than they receive from a protected system of society. That is to say, they live because of their society, and that we work here to preserve them. But we are fortunately informed by facts that reality is contrary to reality, that the hypothesis, which is spread out in our society, is false. How many times have we heard or read that we work to keep migrants, who live through social assistance, those who take away others and who do not receive because of them that they do not want to work? Well, that report seems to say the opposite. They contribute to Social Security and pay IRPF. Moreover, they contribute more economically than they receive. We already know what they bring, but what do they get? According to this report, they do not spend more than the rest of the mortals, neither in health, nor in aid to dependence, nor in education, to give some examples. In addition, we must remark that the expense which foreign inhabitants contribute to society is not greater than that of the whole population. In order to explain this, it must be observed that strangers have little weight in their games of great expense, in their health, in their incomes of submission, and in high-school education. And as we remarked in our explanation of the interpelration, the foreign immigration has improved certain demology-adiers. For example, the rate of birth, of dependence, and of decrepitude. But EH Bildu wants to go a little further. We do not want to keep the economic or demographic data that can be used to open the eyes to which we still do not want to see. We and we believe that what migrant people bring to our culture and to our people is much more. They bring us plurality, multiculturality, diversity, among other things. And sometimes what do they take in return? Painted, insulted, threatened or restricted entry to some public place. What has hitherto been said must open our eyes and sensibise the public in order to turn off the throphobic discourses and to improve their co-operation. We're going to repeat this review again, just what you're asking me to do, it's a very useful instrument to bring everything we've said. That's why EH Collect asked for nothing but to use this little treasure. It's nice to hear the answer that our motion has hitherto received from other parliamentary groups. It's been easy to get a halfway correction and we hope the rest of the teams who haven't signed are willing to accept it. In the agreement we have obtained, we defend an example of euscal society. A multitude of Euscal societies, consolidarian, proclaiming cohesion, and rejects the discourses which nourish xenphobic and raciality. We recognize the positive and plural contribution made by migrants in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, as well as the contribution they make to the economic growth, demography and sustainability of the welfare State. And in the end, we're asking if you'd like me to open up the Euscal News of Immigration in public. That job won't be done by Christmas alone, but with the clams, with the councils and different social institutions. With the generalities which we almost accomplish with this step, stigmatizing, and false negative messages, we almost succeed in following the steady path of the eleven billion-coloured and eupscal multiplicity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Passing the crews who are running the corrections, Mrs Garrido, representing the Basque Potula Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. We have a specific proposal about the importation of the immigration. And Poppular party has introduced a correction, and I shall explain the meaning of our proposition in this interference, but I believe that we may all agree in this matter, at least in certain exact criteria. Gure oinarrizko eskubideen bermea Europar Batasunaren oinarria da. The safeguarding of fundamental rights is one of the inherent and basic principles of the European Union. The basis is the provisions of the treaties, including the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, international conventions, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Treaty of Lisbon states that the Charter of Fundamental Rights is legally binding and clearly states that the Union is based on values of respect for human dignity, equality and democracy. The features of our society are these: multiplicity, lack of discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidness, equality. Our society is characterized by pluralism, respect for human dignity, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality. And the Western countries of the European Union place the person and human dignity at the centre of our action. These are the principles that permeate the functioning of the European Union. These principles are the foundation of the European Union. This, therefore, is what Europe embodies and represents, and it is precisely what the fanaticism and terrorist fanaticism of some people want to destroy: the values on which consolidated democracies and advanced societies, like the European countries, are based, as we have seen recently in the terrorist attacks in Paris. And I believe that today more than ever we have to reaffirm ourselves in these values, which are the ones that permeate the spirit of the European Union. In the countries of the European Union the centre of their conduct is the person and its dignity. The Constitution itself, in its preliminary title, states that Spain is constituted in a social and democratic State governed by law, which promotes freedom, equality and political pluralism as the highest values of the legal system. Nevertheless, to believe in them is the axis of our political action on the sideboard. From the People's Party we firmly believe in these values, which constitute these values, therefore, the guide of our political action. We advocate scrupulous respect for fundamental rights and human rights, and in this regard we must condemn any action that might violate or undermine them. In this regard, acts of racism, xenophobia and hatred constitute clear violations of fundamental rights and freedoms. Our commitments, and all our commitments, must be these: to play against discrimination, to avoid stigmatization and to guarantee each other's life. For this reason, everyone's commitments must be to combat discrimination, to avoid stigmatization of any group and to ensure peaceful coexistence, which respects diversity, plurality and social cohesion. Various studies and reports refer to the economic and demographic impact of the immigrant population. The 2011 Caixa report noted that 30% of GDP in the past 20 years had been a direct result of the arrival of these people. The OECD has also mentioned the tax balance of immigration, i.e. the difference in what they contribute and what they receive and points out that the balance is positive by more than 0.5%. Also the reference to the report of Ikuspegi, Basque Observatory of Immigration, which speaks of the contribution of the immigrant group, of immigration, of the people who come from other places, and speaks of the increase of this contribution. I would also like to talk in this debate about other ideas, other issues that we have incorporated into our amendment that we have tabled to this initiative, which is how the economic crisis has clearly affected the immigrant collective, which has caused many people from other places to return to their places of origin, and above all that it has affected this collective, and that is why we believe that action by this Government is necessary, and because it has employment powers in relation to this collective, that is, in relation to employability, which is one of the specific aspects that we have taken up in our amendment. And then, on the other hand, it seems important to us to highlight the idea that, with the logical respect for the beliefs and customs of each one, the assumption of the democratic values of our rule of law must also be demanded. This is incompatible with re-creating certain ways of life in countries of origin where we know that at times, on too many occasions, fundamental rights are not respected, such as full equality between men and women. In this regard, we have tabled a compromise amendment in which we recognise the contribution made by citizens living in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, coming from other places, from other countries and also from other autonomous communities in the rest of Spain, who, as we know, also live and reside here, in the same way that there are citizens here who go to other autonomous communities and other places. We have taken up two other points which were recently adopted in a compromise amendment which this party has signed and which we believe to be important, namely that we reaffirm ourselves in defence and respect for human rights, defending a model of society based on diversity, solidarity and social cohesion, and also criticising – as we recently did in an initiative – xenophobic and racist expressions, actions and attacks. We believe that it is important for this Government to implement the actions necessary to promote the integration of immigrants, with particular attention to those aspects that have to do with the contribution to society, the interaction between citizens of different origins and their participation in a climate of mutual respect and employability, and also to promote respect for the principles, values and constitutional rights and the functioning of our institutions among the immigrant population. If we had liked that some specific points that we were making in this compromise amendment would have been included in the compromise amendment that has been adopted and that has been presented to us, however, we will not put obstacles to the adoption of this compromise amendment, because we understand that it contains basic principles that we support all the groups represented in this House, but we do believe that it is necessary, and that it would have been opportune, to focus on some specific aspects that we also include in our compromise amendment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u47	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Sarasia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u48	Egun on, ladies and gentlemen, sailburu. I begin by expressing the solidarity of the Socialist Group with the association of African residents in Vitoria-Gasteiz, which for the second time has seen xenophobic and racist messages appearing at the door of its headquarters. We express our regret for these issues and concern about these kinds of actions that are meaningless and disrupt good coexistence. And that said, I enter into the debate on the motion on the contribution, and I say again, to the contribution that immigrants make, which is what brings us here. In principle, I would like to say that at the end of 2014 the foreign population in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country was 140,917 people, 6.4% of the total population, 50.7 men and 49.3 women. The territorial distribution is 19 % in Alava, 48 % in Bizkaia and 33 % in Gipuzkoa. And I think it is important to give this data to know what percentage and what immigrant people are currently in our Community. Data from the study The economic and demographic impact of immigration in the Basque Country developed by Ikuspegi, Basque Immigration Observatory, in collaboration with the Basque Government and the University of the Basque Country, quantify the economic impact of the immigrant population living in Basque, clearly concluding that they contribute more to the Basque economy than they receive. This contrasts with the persistence of certain views in the opposite direction, as reflected in the Barometer 2015, on attitudes towards immigration, also developed by Ikuspegi, which confirms that an important sector of Basque society believes that immigrants benefit excessively from the protection system and receive more than they provide. It is true that this perception may have been installed in our society encouraged by certain voices, but this perception does not correspond to reality, and this is revealed by the studies that have been carried out in recent years on the economic effects of immigrants in the Basque Autonomous Community. In all of them, the data indicate that the immigrant population has been and continues to be beneficial both for society as a whole and for its well-being and for the social protection system itself. When it comes to the social protection system, it is generally thought of as income guarantee income. However, we need to go further, we need to talk about social security contributions and the benefits that belong to that system, whether they are contributory or not. It's important that this is known. Therefore, if we consider the economic contributions that immigrants make through the IRPF, VAT, excise duties, housing income and social contributions, and reduce their spending on social services, education, health care and housing, the balance is clearly positive, both in 2008 and 2012. In both cases, the statistics do not support the opinion of those who believe that immigration contributes negatively to economic growth, since during the period covered by the study, which is four years, the balances of this group have always been positive, thanks, I repeat, to the fact that their income contributions are much more than expenditure on the health system and benefits for dependency and education. We must not forget, moreover, that the economic crisis has been particularly marked by this collective. As a result, the amounts received through economic benefits and social services have increased, although in any case the immigrant group continues to contribute more than it receives. The study also reflects the impact of the foreign population on Basque demography, helping to ensure that the population has not declined in recent years. It also underlines the clear improvement in the arrival of foreign populations in indicators such as birth rate, dependency rate and ageing rate. Finally, I have to say that the demographic impact of immigration, which, although not directly, has a decisive influence in the medium and long term on aspects relating to the economic contribution and sustainability of the welfare state. Under these premises, the Socialist Parliamentary Group presented the amendment to the original proposal in its entirety and, on the basis of our proposal, we have reached a compromise agreement with EH Bildu and with the Basque Nationalist Group, collecting three points that we consider to be basic and important: to reaffirm our commitment to the defence and respect of human rights, defending the model of Basque society based on diversity, solidarity and social cohesion and, of course, rejecting xenophobic and racist discourses; to recognise, in fact, the positive and plural contribution that immigrants make to the Basque Autonomous Community, as well as its contribution to economic growth, Basque demography and the support of the welfare state; and finally, to urge the Basque Government, in collaboration with the outlaws, municipalities and social organizations, to disseminate the results of this study, in order for the population to know the really positive contribution that the immigrant population makes to Basque society and thus to avoid false stereotypes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u49	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. Eubertarians are representatives of the group, Mrs. Argrei. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Again. We thought that after the interpenetration of the immigrants made to the head of the EH Collecta, there would be no motion. We have, in truth, spoken more than please in the parliament, over the racial discourses of certain representatives, and over the xenphobic discourses, to prevent such discourses and postures. On the first point in which the motion demands, most of the groups which we form the legislature have made our position clear and clear, and we agree with what is required. And I will read this point of the basic initiative: "The Parliament rejects the manifold contributions of the Basque people, who have come from foreign to Esquimia Erria, and the discourses which feed the thenphobia and race." Who turned up against it? Perhaps each group used several words, but basically, against racialist and xenophobic discourses, I'm sure we all or most of them agree. Furthermore, in your speech, Mrs Blanco, you acknowledged that you agreed with the Government in substance and in the diagnosis made on the matter before us, and you mentioned it today as well. You spoke of pedagogy, that it was necessary to raise awareness of society with objective data demonstrating the contribution of immigrants. And as Councillor Toña has already said, experts point out that scientific data and objective information are not always able to break or disassemble the stereotypes that exist in society, or in part, with regard to the immigrant population. He also mentioned the counselor who did not have to fall into the game of those who intend to mix immigration with negative data at all times. And we fully share that statement, because we sometimes get the exact opposite effect. Therefore, we believe that pedagogy must begin with our attitude and our own speeches, and with the proper handling of the times when we talk about certain topics to avoid the rebound effect. I believe that we, too, as political representatives, should do pedagogy in this regard. The Government, through the Directorate for Family Policy and Community Development, as part of the awareness-raising strategy, has a stable line of awareness-raising, and Ikuspegi was tasked with the report on the economic and demographic impact of foreign immigration in Euskadi. It was commissioned and financed from the Basque Government. The report makes the positive balance between income and expenditure, rather, investment, attributable to foreign women and men, both before and after the crisis, quite clear, giving figures. The income of IRPF, VAT, housing, contributions, is estimated in 2012 at 631,586,692 euros, while the investment, benefits and social services, education, health, housing, represents 593,388,923 euros, giving a positive balance of 38,197,770 euros. More than EUR 38 million. Here are the data, the cold numbers that disassemble the speeches that encourage xenophobia and racism, leave without argument objective to those who pretend to make society believe that immigrant people come to live from help. That statement is not true at all. We insist, the data is silly and the balance is positive. More than 38 million surplus. To do pedagogy, I insist, you said, Mrs Blanco, and to that the government is also dedicated, to putting data on the table that throws down the unfounded rumors about the immigrant population. The Forum for the Integration and Social Participation of Immigrants promotes awareness-raising policies in society, in the fight against discrimination and stereotypes against the immigrant community. On the other hand, the contribution to the demographic impact of the immigrant population should be highlighted, without the arrival of persons of foreign nationality, the population in the CAPV would have been reduced by almost 50,000 inhabitants. In addition to cultural diversity, the impact of the immigrant population is relevant in indicators such as the birth rate or dependency rate, data that find their justification in the age structure of the foreign and indigenous population. "Therefore we say aloud, 'Let the strangers who have chosen Euskakia be welcome.' We will receive them with open arms, people who have come to develop their life projects, and to work with us. From this tribe also I would like to make a request to the questions of information: let them assist us in spreading this positive information which we have in our hands to-day, for they themselves have opportunities of pedagogy. It's been easy to reach an agreement between the teams where we're sensibilized with the subject. And as the spokesmen who have contributed to it before me have read the text, I will never do it again. I just want to stress the importance of the middle term that we've agreed on. First, I want to praise the positive report of immigrants first and foremost. And in the second place, the objective data of the view cancels the false stereotypes and negative messages of this collective community. Let us leave these politicians out of our discourse. Finally, because we believe that in this intelligible subject, it is a matter of importance to obtain as much harmony as possible, union, and social cohesion, which is the medium which is to be accepted to-day. Because, after all, he's a clever bet on the defense of human rights. And I think it'll be unanimous. So we're happy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Crossing the line of uncorrected teams, Mistya, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u52	Yes, thank you very much, President. We will, of course, vote in favour of this compromise, which will be adopted unanimously. We share what is said in this transactional and we share in general all the speeches of those who have spoken on this issue. We also share the study The economic and demographic impact of immigration in the Basque Country, which we have recently known and which brings certainly interesting figures and data, when in particular it points out that immigrants bring to the Basque public coffers 38 million more than they receive or when it is rightly pointed out that their presence in Euskadi has allowed to sustain the population figures and increase the birth rate, or when it is pointed out that the per capita expenditure on services of a foreign person is less than that of an indigenous person. We therefore share this study, we share the request that this study actually be disseminated, and we share all the principles that you have defended during your interventions. That being said, I want to say something perhaps different from what has been raised so far, or perhaps not, but I want to say a few things on this subject which is of extraordinary importance. I mean that Basque society is not xenophobic; I mean that Basque society is not racist; I mean that racist discourses and attitudes have existed and exist, but they are clearly minority; I mean that Basque society has historically had good behaviour and that Euskadi has been a host country. I would therefore like to highlight this behaviour and, of course, I would also like to highlight the immigrants themselves and the importance they have been and are for the society in which they are integrated and integrated, in this case Basque society. And, of course, we want to denounce forcefully all racist and xenophobic discourses and behaviours, not only because of injustice, but also because they provoke confrontation between fellow citizens and the stigmatization of certain groups. In that regard, what political or institutional representatives say and do is important. Our words are important, although it is true that politicians at this time do not enjoy great preaching in society, but it is important. It is not the same thing to make xenophobic or racist speeches, or to make certain declarations, that to make declarations that go in the direction of promoting the unity and cohesion of society. It's not the same. Therefore, it is important to address exactly what we say, what our attitude is and what we do. I want to say something else on this subject. And I would like to recall, because it should be remembered at this point, that the term Spanish has been used, used and continues to be used in the Basque Country as an insult by the most extreme nationalist sectors. Moreover, Spanish were killed in Euskadi for the simple fact of being Spanish. They were not even or are immigrants, but in many cases they were killed for being Spanish, and for not complying with the good Basque pattern imposed by ETA and its adlaters. That speech and actions, which are also very recent, must also be condemned. The pretence of infusing fear to the one who supposedly comes from outside, whatever that outside, and xenophobic and racist discourses come from far, far, far, far back decades, even centuries ago. "Maqueto" is the name received by people who emigrated from other regions of Spain to Bizkaia, and in general to the Basque Country from the last third of the nineteenth century, as a result of the intense process of industrialization experienced by these territories. The term evidently had a deeply pejorative meaning, and was extended by Sabino Arana, founder of Basque nationalism and the Basque Nationalist Party. Arana considered the "maquetos" to be responsible for the degeneration that Basque society was suffering. Obviously these speeches must also be remembered and censored in a forceful way. Today, too, we are suffering from fear from certain political leaders, and even concrete threats against certain immigrant groups. Just two days ago the headquarters of the Association of African American Residents of Vitoria was dawning with a painted xenophobic dyes. This deserves, must deserve, our strongest condemnation. Being human means migrating. We are all emigrants or children of emigrants. How should we receive emigrants today? Like others who do us the immense favor of reminding us of what our humanity is. As Plutarco wrote, "being born is always arriving in a foreign country." What they want is for those who emigrate to us to flee from misery, to live in a better place than they come. Immigrants arriving in our countries seek, even more than subsistence or work, the possibility of accessing the citizenship that we can offer them. Can immigrants be required to integrate into our country? No doubt about it. Firstly, they should not renounce all relevant aspects of their culture of origin, but only those that contradict the constitutional and democratic principles and fundamental human rights in force in the host country. It is often said that immigrants have to assume, accept and respect our customs. It's not like that. What they have to do is to comply with the laws that, in fact, affect us all, they do not have to behave in the same way as we do, they do not have to accept what we can consider our customs; what they have to do is accept our rule of law and comply with the laws. I don't like "Where you go, do what you see." I like another saying more, the one that says, "Wherever you are, you comply with and respect the laws in force." It is all that we must demand of immigrants, in fact, it is the same thing that we must demand of ourselves, respect the laws, comply with the rule of law. Moreover, no matter where you are born, no matter what language you speak, no matter what religion you profess, no matter what customs you have, the fundamental thing is citizenship rights, the rule of law, scrupulous respect for all human rights, the common good, respect for individual freedoms and mutual respect and, above all, do not forget that we are all basically equal, we are all human beings.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u53	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing on the answering shift, he won't get a word. Anybody want to take the word? No, I'm fine. Let's play the bell. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect, the Eukal Socialists, and the middle-line corrections signed by Euca and Eucabertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u54	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. Third point in theme list: "The same proposal as the Socialists of Euscal, made by the legislature, concerning re-establishment of the housing, and a plan between the organizations of the local reforming of the cities. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal is Mr. Ischaso, representing the Basque Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u55	Thank you, President. The issue that we are bringing now has to do with problems that, in principle, are dealt with in this house in a very usual way, but with different or separate treatments. For example, when we talk about unemployment, this leads us to active employment policies, to public procurement. On the other hand, if we talk about sustainable building, this leads us to the idea of energy efficiency or the old age of our housing stock. Therefore, these are issues which, in principle, constitute problems of a different nature and which we propose today that they be treated as constituent elements of a comprehensive rehabilitation plan, led by an interinstitutional and interdepartmental table, which, in short terms, we propose that it be in two months' time, that it be possible to launch with effect from 2016 to 2020, in order to coordinate all available resources in the areas concerned. The fight against unemployment, while achieving some bad results, does not make great progress and there are still large exchanges of specific groups that have definitely remained outside the labour market. Specifically, as we are going to talk about the construction sector, today we had the press that we have between 15 and 16,000 workers from that sector who do not find work and who have been in that situation for a long time. One of these groups, therefore, is that of construction workers who after the crisis, especially in this sector, long ago left entire legions out of the labour market. In the general policy debate, the lehendakari pointed out that there are already specific programmes in this area and what we were saying at the time, and we say again now, is that all these programmes must be integrated. Because Euskadi has a housing park of the oldest in Europe. At the same time, there are thousands of families with economic difficulties in dealing with the necessary reforms; there are, in turn, serious problems of accessibility and energy efficiency, and aid for dealing with this problem is dispersed among the different administrations. On the other hand, there are municipal urban regeneration plans and, on the other hand, enterprises in the sector are demanding skilled labour. As a result, the Social Dialogue Bureau agreed in January to promote this area of employment in sustainable construction and rehabilitation, which includes from worker training to the encouragement of these people's contracts, although the Government has delayed the implementation of these measures to cater for these groups who can hardly find work in other economic sectors or branches of activity. That is why we believe it is necessary to articulate these policies around an inter-institutional and interdepartmental table, where all resources can be coordinated and for this to be achieved with unemployed people who have been properly trained and who have remained in this situation for a long time. In addition, these issues, which were also widely discussed during the proceedings of the Housing Act, and then the groups shared a reflection that we now bring here and that has to do with the authorization of the occupation of public land, to improve accessibility or habitability, the possibility to intervene in the improvement of the envelope of the buildings, the division of existing housing. All these things that were concerned with the Housing Act and in which there was a coincidence are those that we bring here again, to talk about that in order to deal with all these tasks is why we want to put them in this plan, let us say global and integral, but that it has to be led by an inter-institutional table, and to bring all the administrations into line, how not, and of course, with the involvement of the social actors, who have enough to say in this matter. It should be borne in mind that more than 70% of the existing housing stock is older than 30 years and therefore older than the first technical regulation. Therefore, these buildings are far from meeting the energy efficiency requirements required today. In passing, we must point out that a large part of energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions occur precisely in the residential sector. All this is, on the other hand, a niche of employment of undoubted value and with obvious potential, but obviously requires leadership that can only be exercised by the Government, and if this shows responsiveness to this proposal, our group will strongly support it. And that is why we have presented our initiative, which finally ends up being negotiated with Euskal Herria Bildu, whom I thank for its disposition, which says basically the following: "The Basque Parliament urges the Government to convene an interinstitutional and interdepartmental table to agree, within two months, a comprehensive plan for the rehabilitation of housing and urban spaces, and for the maintenance of infrastructures in 2016-2020, to coordinate all available resources in the areas concerned. "The Basque Parliament urges the Government to ensure that the labour needs arising from the actions provided for in the plan are met by people who find themselves in the unemployment situation, preferably in the construction sector, who have been seeking employment for at least two years, after receiving adequate training in new techniques and energy efficiency, following the criterion of the forecast included in the 2015 Budgets." Third: "Parliament urges the Government, within the planning of comprehensive care for long-term unemployed persons, to develop a line for the rehabilitation of urban housing and spaces and for the maintenance of infrastructure. "This line will bring together, among others, the following characteristics: Based on local development and the realities and needs of the regions, adopting energy efficiency and improving accessibility as basic criteria for rehabilitation, and that the working conditions of the jobs generated by this programme are, at least, those collected by the sectoral labour agreement of the territory". Like it couldn't be any other way. Mr Aldaiturriaga, I have also heard of your amendment and your proposal. In principle it does not seem wrong to me, but it runs away from what is for us the nuclear part of the proposal. We understand that to carry out this task, this comprehensive plan, we need strong leadership, indeed, and we need the help of the administrations that have competing competences in this area. And so, I saw that the amendment that you were moving to us was a little bit out of that idea. And we think it's the nuclear thing. Beyond the fortune or not of the terms, we understand that this rehabilitation plan that has already been discussed has to have a tractor effect, a tractor effect on the unemployment of these concrete groups, which have very difficult insertion. We have spoken before in this House about the long-term unemployed, proposals have been made to alleviate and remedy their situation. But we understand that this sector, that of construction, is indeed a sector that has suffered as few as the crisis, although in our country unequally to other areas that have based their growth on construction. But, nevertheless, it remains a sector that is said to be punished. And above all it is punished, because, in the end, the labour side, the workers who have run out of work opportunities, because there is actually little construction, public investment has also fallen in infrastructure. It has been said on many occasions, then, that it is rehabilitation that could absorb these contingents. Well, indeed, we agree. But of course, all this is not worth a mere invocation. It takes brio, it takes cravings and it takes energy. Of course, it remains for the legislature, because in the end, we are at the last stage, and what we ask the government to lead, to lead beyond what is this legislature, for the period 2016-2020, this idea of an integral plan, constituted, in fact, by the administrations, institutions that have something to say, with the help of the social partners, in order, in fact, to try that beyond what is active employment policies, beyond what is public procurement, to create, as well as, in the end, an area where the work can also be boosted. Because, in the end, the fight against unemployment is not going to be achieved with a magic formula that will put an end to all unemployment, unemployment and unemployment. No, no, There will be many measures to be taken in one direction and another so that these imbalances and situations of clear social injustice can be gradually corrected. And this is one of so many measures that we believe can be put in place to effectively cater to these groups. I think it's idle to keep talking about it. I hope that the approach and spirit behind the proposal have been understood. Except for you and Bildu, the other groups have not tabled amendments. I don't know what your position will be, but, well, I ask and ask for support for this transaction. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u56	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Zulaika, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u57	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. As the Socialists present to-day the other proposals to be examined or worked on by different lines, both the park of the apartment and its situation, the necessity of reviving the old cities, the state and access of the public affairs of the lower classes, the most energetic efficiency and so forth. All these moons are important and necessary to deal with the subject which now comes to us. But, of course, in 10 minutes we don't have all this time to explain our opinions. However, we shall endeavour to explain our opinion about the other just proposition. According to the data given by the director plan, at the age of 18% of the 50-year-old homes, they're in a bad situation or in a bad situation. In all, the plan says they have 75.342 housing to re-establish. In more accurate details, significantly, with regard to accessability, two-thirds of which are not accessible. In other words, a person in a wheelchair can't get through the streets without help. On the way to make the housing and a decent apartment we have today, it's more important than building houses for people to be reassembled and reorganized, to be fit and worthy dwellings, and the data that surrounds empty housing in hand would be to fill up a large part of the demands that exist. In addition, many of the homes of the euscal families are not accessible, and many of them have much to do on the side of energy, but the difficulties to do. It must therefore be necessary to make use of empty ones, and to re-establish those who live at present to be worthy of good houses, and to renew, by the way, the neighborhoods and degraded areas, in order to conduct a fundamental right and a worthy life, before they begin to occupy new areas. Even before the crisis, the activity of the construction sector, which was highly swollen, has come down terribly. The sector, which had grown up with no light control at all, suddenly had a terrible decline, bringing about the destruction of jobs. Those who have suffered most in this sector haven't been major companies. The ones who have suffered the most damages, the small corporations, and the sector autonomies. Many have not had the chance of recycled formation so necessary, and many unemployed have left the sector. Many of these labourers are labourless in length, young as well as old, and will have great difficulty in finding employment again. So that group of workers must also provide solutions. Since the crisis began, and then when the activity of the sector had been terribly low, many construction agencies and societies came out to ask you to make more investments in the mills or the concretes. For instance, CES, some representatives of the company, and even some corporations in the sector. EH Collect thinks that's not a solution at all. You know, one of the reasons that the crisis's been making us start again, and then that's what I'm talking about. We believe that the sector must be recycled, and we believe that new buildings and new buildings are made and sold and re-established in the concretes is a bad idea of action. On the other hand, the buildings, substructures, and the housing are preserved, re-educated, and adapted, as far as possible, as from the maximum efficiency, as from the neurogentic efficiency. And so, for example, in the ecological materials, stability, etc. We think the sector should hit that. It's true that autonomous and minor companies don't make it easy to invest in that. Hence we believe, especially with regard to them, that money and industry ought to be directed. On that day, in that line, the programs that I'm talking about are known as Renove's plans. Of three different kinds: In order to adapt the housing plans, housing, or neighbouring communities to the work of life, the plans of education, or even the retrogression of the medical centres. We must say of these plans, and we have long said that, even if there were any support for families, it is a very premium of work from the employment view; for a time when it does not produce new employments, it brings but a little breath to the existing autonomists. So, as a job, we have to make arrangements for the production of a social employment rather than to maintain a little employment. From this Illus, it would be interesting to observe the labourless workers who have worked long in the sector, to start a special program or plan, offer it in a recycle formation, and then to prevent the adaptation of structures and sub-structions of several sorts, which require re-incommunication. And that's the line that led to our correction. We must say, in all the foregoing words, that we agree with the purpose of the other proposition, as described by PSE. But, according to EH Collect, this integral plan has to consider some minimum criteria. And that's where our correction goes. In order to re-establish the housing and the suburbs, we'll have the chance of sub-maintaining them, but, as I have said, considering certain criteria: to be based on the development of the place, on the reality and the needs of the region. Besides the consideration of the needs of each district, we believe that it may be a plan which, though indirectly designed in this respect, may be designed for the benefit of its co-workers, and encourage local economy. In the world of retroversies, to improve the effectiveness and the accessability to be the fundamental criteria. We see in the streets that access is not well secured, and this subject must also be of priority in such a plan. So it is with the most energetic efficiency. There are many men nowadays who are worthy of the conditions of life, to have a state of confort in their lives, and are often in trouble because they have not their own dwellings, and of course they have also difficulty in resisting the works to suit them. This was the last point. And even this latter point, from a employment point of view, is thought to be of priority. We have seen many instances in which the conditions of labour are not confirmed in the financed works with the public money. Therefore, to ensure that the actually creating employment will at least have a quality, we believe that it is necessary to fulfil the labor contract of the land sector, as a reference always. Of course, if the other contracts of labor are established, where the conditions of labour are improved, we shall never be opposed to it. And, as the party proposer has shown, we've come to a middle-way. We must say that when we say at the third point, we must make a plan, of course, that we must seek connexion with the first point-that is, not two different schemes, but that we demand only one plan. We hope the other teams will stand up for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Alter fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u59	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Chief Department, Congressman, good noon. Urban rehabilitation is broadly a polyhedral issue and can be analysed from multiple facets and ramifications. There are two aspects to the matter that the Socialist Group is proposing to us today. One, that the Basque Government convene an inter-institutional and interdepartmental table to agree within two months on a comprehensive plan for the rehabilitation of housing and urban spaces at which the resources available in this area are coordinated. And another, that the private labour needs of these actions are met by unemployed people in the construction sector, prior to adequate training in building rehabilitation tasks. The aim would be to link policies and measures to promote rehabilitation to the impetus of economic recovery and employment, something we initially agree with. The question of the rehabilitation of buildings and urban regeneration is not something new in Euskadi, ladies and gentlemen, although today it has a special role to play. It is not new because from Euskadi we were pioneers in 1985 in developing a successful regulatory body that was subsequently exported to other administrative latitudes, including outside the State; a body combining the right to housing and the right to the city. In recent years, rehabilitation has gained special prominence due to economic, real estate and environmental crises. From an economic point of view, the construction sector, which in 2008 accounted for 10.2 % of GDP in Euskadi, currently accounts for 5.9 %. It has suffered in particular from the effects of the crisis. Of every 10 jobs destroyed, three have been destroyed in construction. According to Eustat, construction personnel have increased from 103,000 in 2008 to 63,000 in 2013. As a result of the crisis, more than 35,000 direct jobs in the construction sector have been destroyed in Euskadi. However, after 28 consecutive quarters, i.e. seven years, with negative annual rates, it seems that the construction sector this year is finally recovering, albeit slightly. But not only must urban rehabilitation be enhanced by the effect of the crisis, we also believe that rehabilitation must be enhanced by conviction of the model of city we want; a compact city, with little consumption of soil and materials and energy, and with little production of complex and diverse waste. More often than not, we see that economic, social, environmental, cultural, cooperation and participation are inextricably linked in our cities. The initiative presented contains, in our view, a wrong approach to rehabilitation. By the way, we are talking about infrastructure maintenance and resource coordination, but we do not know what infrastructure it refers to and what resources it refers to. The Government is requested to draw up a comprehensive plan for the rehabilitation of housing and urban areas, but the Government cannot draw up comprehensive plans for the rehabilitation of all the municipalities of Euskadi. Firstly, because the development and approval of urban rehabilitation and regeneration plans are largely municipal competence, as is expressly recognized in the justification of the initiative. Secondly, even if the Government acted in the face of municipal inactivity, it would be herculean work, enormous economic cost and several years of duration. Thirdly, because the Basque Government cannot coordinate the resources of other administrations, because it has not been given these powers. And here, Mr Itxaso, I would like to make a brief reference to the concept of administrative coordination. Coordination involves the establishment of means and systems of relationship that make possible the mutual information, technical homogeneity and joint action of administrations and the legal techniques that make it possible. In its own sense, a body coordinates when it takes a decision of binding compliance for the other administrations, the coordinated ones. In other words, it carries a certain leadership power. Therefore, coordination coordinates must be attributed by legal rules of sufficient rank, they cannot be presumed as you do in your initiative. And in the area of rehabilitation, we have no rules in the Basque Country to establish this coordinated faculty. On the second point, where the works of the rehabilitation plans are carried out by unemployed people in the construction sector, we believe that this is a matter more specific to social clauses in public procurement than anything else, which we meet at the table tomorrow to continue working on. But, eye, the works of rehabilitation of housing buildings that are not owned by the autonomous community are not contracted by the Government, but by the owners of the houses and the communities of owners. If the communities of owners do not carry out works, there are no companies to hire, nor are there any jobs. The relationship between a private individual or the community of owners who contracts the work with a company is of a private nature, ladies and gentlemen. The Basque Government cannot oblige individuals or communities of owners, as I say, to contract with companies in which their internal labour relations are regulated by one or other agreement. The Basque Government, for its part, has several initiatives to address the problem of rehabilitation that we are addressing here today: the energy strategy of Euskadi 2020, the programme of Economic and Employment Reactivation, the Housing Master Plan and the Renewed Rehabilitation Plan. By focusing on the most specific issues we are dealing with today, the 2014-2016 Employment Plan states that their determinations will be realized through annual action plans, with initiatives and actions, quantitative targets and concrete budgets. Contributions to the 2015 Action Plan established that the programmes and action lines are aimed at training unemployed people for sustainable rehabilitation, encouraging companies to hire such people, and providing support and subsidies to communities of neighbours for these rehabilitation works. And all these measures are budgeted and being implemented. Rehabilitation is therefore an action line set out in the programme for the reactivation of employment. The fourth axis of the Housing Master Plan also talks about the same, and in the development of both, the program and the plan, was approved the Renovation Rehabilitation Plan 2013-2016, a tool aimed at employment in sustainable building and rehabilitation. Of the five action programmes, the most important are: the programme of assistance to individuals and communities of owners to carry out rehabilitation works, and the programme of subsidies for urban regeneration in integrated rehabilitation areas or in degraded residential areas. The latter include Peñascal and Heart of Mary in Bilbao, Txomin Enea in Donostia, Txabarri in Sestao or Mogel in Eibar. The Renovation Plan adopted in 2013 has been one of the most successful initiatives of this Government and an important budget bet. The amount of aid to be granted is EUR 81.5 million, and it is estimated that another 859 will be mobilised. A total of EUR 949 million. With regard to employment, it is estimated that some 13,000 jobs have been created or will be created during the implementation of this plan. That is why we propose that one of the axes of the Renove Plan programme be extended its time horizon, that its validity be extended from 2016 to 2020, so that the rehabilitation of the built heritage is enhanced with the aim of generating proximity employment. With respect to the impact of rehabilitation work on employment and on the training of workers, we propose that the Government negotiate with the social partners within the Social Dialogue Bureau the establishment of training measures to achieve the necessary professional qualification, aimed at unemployed persons with a view to empowering them in the areas of rehabilitation. And we understand that the Social Dialogue Bureau is the appropriate forum for dealing with these issues. Because sustainable rehabilitation requires the specialization and commitment of companies in the sector. Greater qualification of workers is good both for the company because it keeps it on the market and for workers who have better stability and working conditions. The compromise amendment that has been reached between the proposer and the Bildu Group covers these matters widely, and in particular the incorporation of one contained in Bildu. But we sincerely understand, Mrs Zulaika, with all due respect, that it does not contribute much to the rehabilitation debate, because it refers to common places such as energy efficiency, which is of course one of the aspects taken into account by the actions of the Government, or empty of content, such as the generic call for local development and the needs of the regions. And it is true, Mr Itxaso, that it has not been possible to reach a compromise with other groups on these bases, and that is why we maintain our initial proposal, and we call for the support of the non-amending groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u60	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. A group that hasn't run any corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Yeah? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u61	... defended by the Socialist Group and EH Bildu the transactional that they have signed and the proposal made by the Basque Nationalist Group. I must say that both proposals seem interesting to me. I believe that both proposals contain good arguments, and both proposals raise very laudable and perfectly defendable objectives. It is therefore possible that there will be a tie in this House. We would have liked it to have been possible for a transactional to be signed. It wasn't possible. In the case of UPyD, we are going to abstain, because both proposals are positive, but in the end, they are certainly better, and we would not like to vote against any of them. For the next time there are two options: to have UPyD, although in this case it is true that we have not tabled an amendment, it is certainly important that you arrive at a transactional, or that you raise better arguments to convince a server. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u62	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, almost everyone. Well, as has already been said here, the initiative has two purposes, neither of which is new, and both have been debated in this House. On the one hand there is the rehabilitation of housing and regeneration of public spaces, and on the other hand, it would be to try to reintegrate the long-term unemployed into the labour market, especially in the construction sector. First of all, with regard to the first objective, we have already said this on other occasions in this House, and it is also evident in the initiative, Euskadi has one of the oldest housing parks in Europe. Of this housing stock more than 30% are over 50 years old, and almost 40% between 30 and 50 years old. That is why it is clear that this park needs rehabilitation works and, among which they are very important, and in this House this parliamentary group has put forward an initiative in this respect, those that will ensure universal accessibility. According to the Eustat, in 2010 34% of the buildings in Euskadi still had not adequately resolved the accessibility to the house and to the rest of the private spaces of the property. This led the Ararteko to issue a recommendation, dated 2/2013, dated 5 February, which led to an initiative presented by this group, and that it was precisely this need to ensure accessibility to those collective residential buildings that have architectural barriers. And one of the formulas was precisely the installation of lifts, so that many older people did not have to be forced to live confined or isolated in their homes because they faced physical obstacles that are insurmountable for those whose mobility is reduced by any cause. Also in relation to energy efficiency and, as has been said here, many buildings still have many shortcomings, and also in what has to do with regeneration of spaces and adaptation of urban spaces. And it is true that the involvement of all administrations is necessary. It is true that it is necessary for all public administrations to give priority to the rehabilitation of the residential heritage, taking into account, above all, criteria of accessibility but also of sustainability and energy saving. All administrations, always within their respective competences. And as has been said here, the Housing Plan itself is structured, one of the axes precisely, it is structured in promoting a new model of sustainable and inclusive rehabilitation. And in this plan, and in numerous plans that the Government also has, such as the Renovation Plan, so that the economic difficulties that could prevent the possibility of carrying out these works of improvement and rehabilitation, in order to solve, as I say, precisely those difficulties, is what these aids to rehabilitation have been granted for. The Basque Government, like the central Government or other autonomous governments, already has such programmes for the rehabilitation and renovation of buildings as the Renovation Plan, as I said earlier, which we have in the Basque Government. And this programme has been effective and through it these kinds of initiatives have been shaped. Also in other administrations, such as municipalities, funds are available to achieve these objectives. And as I said, it is true that if it is coordinated, if it goes in parallel, the different administrations and coordinate their programmes and resources, it would achieve greater efficiency and effectiveness. But to coordinate on an equal footing, because, as has been said here, not to coordinate from the Basque Government, because that is not competitively possible. I understand that you, Socialists, with that vision, as I say in the Historical Territories Act, the proposal that we had the opportunity to discuss last week, in which you claim that everything should be centralized from the Basque Government and that it should be the Basque Government that ultimately appears as the driving force behind the actions of all the administrations, but the competence and autonomy of all the administrations, including the municipalities, must be respected. And secondly, as has also been said here, there is another objective that is pursued with this initiative, which is that through this rehabilitation and regeneration of urban spaces, in addition to getting more accessible environments and buildings, a number of people, perhaps the most affected by the crisis, can be reintegrated into the labour market, and an improvement in the employment figures of this group in Euskadi can be achieved. As I said, the figures for the long-term unemployed here are very high, because they have been one of the groups most aggravated by the crisis and have not stopped growing. And so in Euskadi, 70% of the unemployed are considered to be long-term unemployed. And in this sense too from other administrations the objective has been set in them, and for example in the General Budgets of the State of 2016 a new item of 129 million euros has been included with which will be financed precisely this plan of labor orientation in order to benefit the long-term unemployed between 30 and 50 years. And whose concrete regulation will be made through the field of social dialogue and the sectoral employment conference. And especially within these long-term unemployed are, as has been said here, the unemployed from construction, which is one of the sectors that has suffered as few as the crisis and whose reintegration into the world of work presents more difficulties. It is true, as Mr Aldaiturriaga also said, that it is a sector that is recovering, we have seen it today. Moreover, much of the decline in unemployment figures comes from this sector. And so in October, for example, it was one of the sectors that declined. And it is clear that housing rehabilitation and urban regeneration can be a good tool. But of course, they must be an instrument that works. What you can't do is sing to the sun that then really doesn't work, because it's been said here. "If you say that a comprehensive housing regeneration plan is being made, who is going to get the housing regenerated? Is the house going to be generated directly from the Administration? Or is the one that's going to regenerate the house going to be the private one?". Of course, if it is going to be the individual, it will be the individual who, with the aid of the Administration, indeed, but it will be the individual who hires, or the community of owners, the company that considers most relevant and most convenient. How are you going to get that particular, when you regenerate your home, to hire a company that in turn has hired long-term unemployed people? That's hard for me to feel. Except that what is to be said is that directly from the administration, i.e. the Basque Government or the municipality, these rehabilitation works are carried out in the houses. Unless that's the case. Another thing is the regeneration of the public spaces of the municipalities. But it is the municipalities that can coordinate in their case, that is, and give a series of guidelines for that to be done. And then another thing I wanted to say to you is that you here last week, without going any further – you didn't just say it last week, you said it more times – about an initiative that presented this group, you told Mr. Barrio not to put any more duties on the government. That's why I was going to put more duties on the Government, if I wasn't going to do them. And what I'm saying is, I don't know why you don't let others put more duties on the government, and instead you do. I don't know if he thinks you're going to get more attention than the rest. But aside from that, put or do not put duties on you, you have a formula in your hand to get that if you want to have specific training plans for long-term unemployed that incorporate people in the construction sector; and second, that the rehabilitation of housing and regeneration of urban spaces is more intense than it is at this time, include items in the 2016 Budgets, amend them, and link their approval of that budget to the fact that those items become reality. In this way, they will be able to achieve this dual objective: greater regeneration, greater rehabilitation and further expansion of employment programmes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u64	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mr. Ichaso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u65	In no case has it been the intention – if it seemed so, the denial right now – to appear here as a precursor of nothing. What happens is that innovation usually consists in taking advantage of knowledge already gathered; that is, innovation is not about an unknown or unknown knowledge, but about what we already know. Of course there are programs. And of course there are actions that are being done. We have not denied that reality. And what we're saying is that, knowing that all these programs – rehabilitation renewals and so on – already exist, we were talking about connecting them, tweaking them with the institutional framework. Of course, questions have arisen about the nature of coordination. Well, there's a generic duty of administrations to cooperate with each other. Right? Then, we give that meaning to coordination, because of course, if an institution, a local entity, at a certain point, does not want to know anything with the Government, it will certainly not make any facility. Because that phrase – which is not of any politician, but of an alpinist – that where there is a will there is a way, is true. What happens is that Mr Aldaiturriaga has said it, that it is a herculean, titanic task. I was aware that I had a proposal which is indeed an important effort. And it is not true that we do not want to place duties on the government. What I was saying to Mr Barrio was that there was no point in agreeing on something that was going to fail; that we did not want to attend a succession of breaches by a law of cooperatives that basically does not change anything, despite the time that has passed. And that's how we read it. But that is not the subject of today's debate. So basically, all groups have agreed that rehabilitation is an important field, which is needed for different reasons, which here does not give time to explain them all, but it is true. We remain in that we cannot consume the soil – which is a scarce good – in a growing and expansive way, without first meeting the possibilities of the built park, which, as has been said, is ancient and has needs. You mentioned, and have also been stressed by other groups, the issue of accessibility. Indeed, this is a requirement of our time, improving accessibility and promoting that accessibility to homes and residential buildings is not a problem, nor are there architectural barriers. What we were trying – I don't know whether successfully or not – to highlight this morning is that, in the same way that we agree on the need to rehabilitate the housing stock, in the same way that we agree on the need to respond to these contingents of workers who have been unemployed, who have been unemployed for a long time, who come from a sector that, as has already been said, has suffered the crisis as few sectors and who really need to be employed, who have difficulty in recharging or working in other branches of activity, why not put all of this into one purpose and carry out a task that, in fact, I am not going to do now that plan that we ask the Government and I am going to describe it in a minute, on how to do it; but we understand that precisely a government, nothing less than a government, has material, human means; it has a whole wealth of knowledge and an entire tradition and experience, just to lead – yes, to lead; it gives us no problem to use that term – as it can do in other areas of action. And I don't think that any administration – whether it's a city council or a parliament – has to be likely to think they're... No, we respect municipal autonomy and, logically, we respect the competence of each institution. But it's a purpose that doesn't try much less to spell out anyone's skills. It is a positive proposal, to try to shape something, that of course is being done, but we want it to have a much larger dimension and perspective, and when a community wants to hire, it will find many problems, for surely there will be owners who cannot afford the costs and others who do. They will encounter the problem that companies that pass budgets some come from the field of rehabilitation and others have just incorporated, because they see that there is a segment where they can enter to work, where before they did not and came from another area of construction, which have many segments. I mean, there's a lot of situations. I cannot describe them all and solve all the problems, what I am saying is, if we agree essentially, if we share the same notions, man, it would not be I think that, in the end, unfortunate to have such an agreement, to take advantage of this situation to give the government that impetus, let us say this credit that it is carrying on such an operation. We believe that it would be positive and that every effort, every effort made in this direction will not be in vain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u66	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. From EHG, Mrs. Zulaika won't speak a word. Mr. fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u67	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Itxaso, for us it is not the same coordination as collaborating. In fact, in the compromise amendment that I passed to him, which I have before me, our proposal says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to cooperate with the other public administrations in promoting the realization of the built heritage and urban regeneration". And this has not been accepted by you. Finally, for us, as I say, words have their importance, their implications and their value. If there were no doubt about this, the key in this area, in our view, is financing, because the possible conversion of the construction sector to energy rehabilitation is based primarily on the economic return derived from energy savings. The will to rehabilitate individuals and the Government exists; legal mechanisms can be improved, but there they are. But what will enable the success of the rehabilitation policy is that the actors involved, in particular, I repeat, the communities of owners, have funding to meet the costs of rehabilitation, because if there is no work to be done, no jobs are created, Mr Itxaso. And the owner communities are not an abstract entity other than the owners of the flats that form it. Some of these owners are unemployed, others suffer from mortgage executions, and others cut costs. Owner communities need funding for rehabilitation, and this funding can be public or private, and the public subsidy comes under the current regulation up to a maximum of 50%, as the case may be, and the rest must be private. How to get it? That is the challenge to which we must devote ourselves from this institution. On coordination in the Basque Housing Act, I would like to say a few words, because it is important. The Housing Act recently adopted by this Parliament devotes a specific chapter and mandates the competent administrations, and in particular local authorities, to promote rehabilitation and urban renewal. And it is with such force that, in order to act on this matter, a prior declaration of the state of need for urban rehabilitation or regeneration is needed, but it is also that this declaration must be accompanied by a description of the technical solution and the economic valuation of each of the buildings affected in order to proceed with their rehabilitation. Moreover, the management of the areas of urban rehabilitation and regeneration, in article 43, is carried out through the figure of the special plan, which, in most of our municipalities, as you all know, are carried out without any government intervention, it is elaborated and approved by the municipalities of Euskadi. And even more, I continue, the management of rehabilitation and regeneration is carried out in the manner chosen by the municipal administration, not the one chosen by the government, but the municipal administration, normally, an agreement between the owners and the city council. However, the proponents expect the Government to draw up a comprehensive plan within 12 months. Anyway, no comment. The proponents do not know the rules of play that they themselves have developed to regulate this matter, Mr Itxaso. The treatment of urban rehabilitation and regeneration in the Housing Act has surely been a missed opportunity. The Basque Government is fulfilling, it is using the tools available to address this issue. It may well be that this Parliament, that is, we, are not up to the circumstances. For example, the Basque legislation on rehabilitation contained in the Housing Act is not aligned with the European Energy Efficiency Directive, we have not been able to design adequate tools to achieve these objectives. And I would like to bring up a very correct phrase from an illustrious urbanist, the professor of the VATP Ignacio Tejerina, who said the following about the Housing Law: "It is about us applying ourselves to take advantage of the misfortunes, including this Housing Law". And in that we are, because the proposed comprehensive rehabilitation plan clashes with the determinations set out by you yourselves in the Housing Act. Thank you. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u68	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u69	Yes, with your permission, Madam President, from the seat, very briefly. I suppose, of course, what Mr Itxaso was saying, that while Mr Barrio's proposal, as it was a proposal for non-compliance, there was no vote for it, and it seems that it is totally committed to compliance. I believe, we can agree, and I have already said, that we can agree with that dual objective: to gain accessibility, to gain regeneration and rehabilitation of spaces and housing, and also to be able to incorporate long-term unemployed people into the labour market, especially in the construction sector. But it is about doing so with measures that are possible, that is, that can be carried out. Because talking about that plan can look very good, on paper it can look very good, but if then it can't be fulfilled, because it won't be more than that, more than on paper. Besides that in the transaction they have taken advantage, as always, that the Pisuerga passes through Valladolid to mock the labor reform. And of course, for I say to you, it is to take advantage of any occasion that if it is not a missed occasion. That is why we are voting against the compromise amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u70	Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the middle-direction signed EH and Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 37; the counters, 37; whites, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u71	Since it's a draw, we'll vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 37; the counters, 37; whites, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u72	It's a draw, so we'll leave it for the next round meeting. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal of the Parliament of Euscal, as it was made by Populous Groups, concerning the origin and supplication of the foundation of destruction. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal is the representative of the Basque Potula Group. Carmen Lopez de Ocarari, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u73	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I present this non-legislative proposal, an initiative which refers to Chapter VI of the Act on Agriculture and Food Policy adopted on...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u74	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u75	As I said, an initiative that refers to the Act on Agricultural and Food Policy adopted on 23 December 2008, almost seven years. As I said, this initiative refers to chapter VI of this Act, which refers to catastrophic damage and which provides for two articles, article 83 and article 84, where, on the one hand, a catastrophic zone declaration is listed or is said to be made in those cases that are considered to be and will be regulated for that purpose. In addition, Article 84 states that a disaster fund will be created between the Basque Government and the Members of Parliament, a fund that will have to have an economic envelope, that will be agreed between the administrations and that, in addition, a regulation will be developed for its implementation. As I say to you, after seven years of various initiatives in this House, these articles remain undeveloped, and we have presented this initiative urging the Government to do so. It seems to be willing, the date we had agreed is June 2016; through the amendments that have been tabled, some were asking for one year, another three months, and we have reached that agreement. After seven years, a month more or a month less would not be important either. The important thing is that once and for all the Government complies with the development of a law, a law that was introduced by the Government of nationalist composition in 2008, which was supported by the People's Group, because a significant number of amendments were tabled that were admitted, and we are also collaborators or co-owners of that law to some extent. And, therefore, a law that was passed in the spirit of compliance. But, as I said, there are articles that have not been developed today and the background article of catastrophes and catastrophic zone seems to us very important, because, as you will also remember, it is rare the exercise in which in this House there is no debate for catastrophic damage either by floods or by hails or other adverse weather effects that harm and damage crops. Therefore, if in 2008 we considered this initiative to be important to be reflected in the law, it seems to us today to be so important or more important that it is developed, regulated and ready to be implemented in those cases that require it. The amendments tabled by the various groups have also included another article of the law which is not included in the original initiative, but which may be complementary to it, which refers to Chapter V of the Act on Agricultural and Food Policy, which refers to agricultural insurance and the impetus that the Government must make to ensure that insurance is applied in all the agricultural networks in the Autonomous Community, together with the Member States, which manage that. The truth is that in the light of the data sent to us by the Government on a written question, the percentage of insurance that the different crops have, because if there are some like cereal that has an insurance of almost 100%, there are other crops that are in very low percentages. With this, there is a very important work to be done and that article, or compliance with that article, has also been moved to the compromise amendment that we have signed. I am going to go on to read the amendment, because, well, you have it, but I think it is very clear and that there is not much more to add, rather than urge compliance with the law, and that we hope that once and for all this is already the definitive initiative that we are presenting and that its compliance does not give rise to others. And we say in the compromise amendment: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, together with the outside parliaments, to create and activate the disaster fund before 31 June 2016, as set out in Act No. 17/2008 on food agricultural policy, and to set the budget allocation". In point 2 we say that "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to promote and encourage, together with the outlaws, the hiring of various agricultural insurances that will allow to alleviate the damage caused in the agricultural activity by unpredictable events, as provided for in Law 17/2008 on Food Agricultural Policy". This is the agreement we have reached, which I believe will have the unanimity of the House. And what is left to us is to ensure that this compliance is effective. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing over the divisions which are set before them, the Representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Lazarus, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u77	Yes, good noon to all. My first engagement in this Chamber was about the foundation of disasters, because of the rainy rains in 2012. At that time the parliament asked you to set the foundation for disasters. What we're going to accept today is then accepted. Difference is this: At the very very beginning of the legislation, we were asked to start the fund for disasters. And from then on, since it hasn't been completed, it's asked to start again before the bill's over. This is our daily bread in this parliament: Introduce the initiative, try to get to the agreement, get it sometimes, and then many times later he's not satisfied. And in the presence of this situation, another initiative is introduced, another round to the subject, and thus by degrees one and the other to the end of the law. The fact is, that, far from being a man's object, he does not fulfil the demands of the legislature, so that it would be more foolish to say, "Jaurs, EAJ targets." And we have to say in 2008, that the Farming and the Educational Policy Law, will be a new Law lost on the way to the development of that Law. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u78	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u79	Yeah. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, or good noon. Public aid programmes in these disaster situations also contribute to the stability of the sector's income. We will therefore vote in favour of the creation of a disaster fund, which is necessary for the sector. And it seems to us important not only because it is established by law: it seems to us important to protect farms in a particular way, because, in the face of situations that we all objectively consider a catastrophe, for an agricultural, livestock or forestry producer considers it legal, and compensation depends on a global declaration of the objective damage that is diluting in the global framework and in which the damage has been generalized throughout an area. As already mentioned, the law provides for the fund of disasters with budgetary allocations and also articulates the necessary channels for the granting of extraordinary credits. These estimates of the management system of this fund should be regulated by the Regulation. There is therefore a need and need for an aid plan to alleviate unforeseeable damage. And this management system requires coordination among all institutions. They know that my party has a special commitment in this area. We believe that collaboration between different administrations is the most effective way to meet what citizens demand, above any competitive fight. In this case, in addition to this collaboration with the three deputies, it is provided for in the law. The Foral Chamber of Álava has already asked the Basque Government to activate the disaster fund. We agree that we must work together. This collaboration should be reflected in articulating the channels necessary for the achievement of extraordinary credits according to the organizational, functional and economic distribution corresponding to the management of the fund. The Socialists call for a political table to address and develop what is provided for in the Act on Agricultural Policy, to study the needs and coverage of the disaster fund in our Autonomous Community. And it is necessary that this legal forecast has a first reflection in a budget forecast every year, in the coverage of disaster funds from the Basque Executive. The creation of the fund must be a tool and help for the sector, in order to be able to articulate a set of palliative and restorative measures that are appropriate to the situation created. The fund should aim to contribute to the restoration of agricultural normalization in the damaged areas, and also to facilitate rapidly and flexibly the costs arising from the repair of the catastrophic damage caused. The regulatory development of the law must also set out the requirements that must be met in order to be eligible for the disaster fund: that the affected farms are registered in the register of the agricultural exploitation of our autonomous community, and the damaged goods are located in the geographical area. For my group, for the Socialist Group, it is a priority to continue to support farms, livestock and forestry. That is why we want to take care of them when they suffer a problem that we all consider catastrophic for these farms, beyond the declaration of a catastrophic zone, and that support must be reflected in policies of public support to the sector by this Government, in policies that allow farmers, farmers and foresters to make compensatory payments for economic losses caused by climatic disasters, the outbreak of an animal or plant disease, a pest infestation, an environmental incident, and all this is a marked decrease in their income. We repeat this in every sectoral debate that we have in this House, we can never forget that small and medium-sized enterprises predominate in farms; therefore, we know that any catastrophe that they may suffer can trigger a complicated situation in the economic performance of exploitation, facing phenomena that are alien and uncontrolled from their daily work. Unforeseen phenomena that will result in lower yields as a result of reduced harvests and destruction due to the damage caused. Today, a reason of great importance for the sector to be able to count on this type of aid, to preserve the rural environment, its population, its economic activity, environmental maintenance and the promotion of food of proximity and quality. We are all aware that agrarian activity encounters major difficulties in properly carrying out the dual mission of the sector, economic mission and territorial mission, which society demands of the primary sector. Therefore, we must empower and help the primary sector of our community. In this compromise amendment that we have agreed and signed, we share the need for the creation of the disaster fund. It is more than just a compensation: we invest in professionalisation and preventing the closure of farms in the sector, thinking of many young people in the Basque primary sector, as well as the possibility of helping to promote generational relief in farms, livestock and forestry. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u81	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good at noon. I will try to be brief to avoid the predictive noises and because it is also a relatively faracious debate. In any case, I would like to recall that in February 2013, as the plenary sessions of this legislature began, I first appeared as a parliamentarian in this forum speaking of catastrophes. And I remember that then the People's Party and we already agreed on a transaction, which I recalled, could have been due to a joint view of the problem and possibly to an intermediation of Valentine's Day, which was a date that was celebrated in that environment. On these dates we are still far from Valentine's Day, but since the agreement is greater, it is coral, it is unanimous, because I can think that it has interceded Santa Cecilia, which is celebrated, I think this Saturday. In any case, to the matter. Indeed, articles 83 and 84 of the Act on Agricultural and Food Policy provide for the declaration of an area as catastrophic and its regulation. And that regulation has not yet been made, which is necessarily not right. Although, let us be honest and respond to the truth, every time there has been a conflict, whether there is such a regulation or not, there has been such a catastrophe and there have been funds, which each year are budgeted for that eventuality. Also, and in the absence of any concrete development of this law, it is probably due not so much to a political impetus from the Government as to the need to do so among four institutions. And when they have to make a regulation between four institutions, the effort required is not arithmetically multiplied if one does, but geometrically. It is clear to us – it is clear to me – that the new outside teams seem to me to be more brilliant with the matter, and today, in the Committee on Agricultural Policy, it is precisely a draft of the disaster fund that is being dealt with. This means that things are going well and we hope that the political momentum that is being made here in Parliament today will bring the necessary bureaucratic agility within the government to develop it. The law, whatever the case, provides, and the regulations I suppose it will provide, that if a catastrophic zone is declared, the foreign parliament requests it, the Government approves it on the basis of a series of indices and it is set in motion. And from there there are beneficiaries. But the beneficiaries have to meet a number of requirements: to be a farmer or a farmer primarily, except I believe that in forestry exports; to be registered, and that the damage has occurred in a crop that is not, not insured, not covered by the insurance plan. By the way, I take this opportunity to speak in public here to reclaim the competition for agricultural insurance, which we would like to move forward in the development of the Autonomy Statute. Good. That means that if the product, the cultivation, is provided for in the plan, even if it has been damaged, it cannot receive money from the disaster fund. From here comes our amendment to the whole, which has been collected, thank God, in the transaction, the necessary impulse of insurance. Because something has already progressed, Mrs López de Ocariz; only extensive crops – cereals – are covered by 99%. Do you know how much the most important cultivation of the entire Rioja Alavesa is covered? The vineyard is covered only by 27% insured. That is, if a hail falls in Laguardia, only 27% have insurance. And the rest doesn't have it, but he can't go to the catastrophe fund either. That is why it is essential that we work to ensure that the farmer integrates agricultural insurance into the operating costs, which is already being subsidized. That is what we wanted with this compromise amendment; on the one hand, to regulate the disaster fund and, on the other hand, to encourage farmers to take out agricultural insurance. In conclusion, because it doesn't add up to the issue, a reflection by Plauto, who said: "As we go after the uncertain, we lose the sure." And I think that there are still too many people who are pursuing the uncertain, and what we are getting here today and what we have to work for ourselves and the institutions of government and outside, is for such a path to be abandoned, at least in agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u82	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Anybody want to be on the second round? No. Then we'll ring the bell. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Basque Popular Groups, the Basque Socialists, the EHG and the media that sign Eucobertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-19.u83	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-five.
