ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Remember, the vote for the New House Earth has been delegated. Preceding theme: "Mutation, introduced by the Congress of the Homeer Barbadillo EH Collector, is the attitude of the President of the Catalunia as the principal political forces of Catalonia have agreed to produce the State of Catalonia. To judge for ever by the drawings of the whole meeting of April 30, according to the 92.1 article of the ruler." It was a draw in the voice of the third point of total correction introduced by the eubertarian party. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we'll remake that correction. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u1	So he's suspended. First point in theme list: "Punct another plan of collecting the legislative assemblies, the left side to examine the social state of the region, and to suggest reconnaissance in the legislature, in order to produce a power in the Union. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Casanova, the representative of the EH Group, has the word to present and defend himself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u2	Hello, good morning, everyone. And especially the guests who have come from the left side, the selected EH and the members of the nation moving. Good morning, everyone. Today, I'm going to focus on the left, though, according to the middle-way that will finally be tested, the power that will also be created to hit the state in the Oarso. And then I'll explain why I'm going to focus on the left, and I'll make a small mention of the state of the Oarsoso in the end. So, I said I'll talk about the Left, and I'll start. It says a sort of urban legend circulating in the Left Margin that Victor Chávarri, one of the founders of Altos Hornos, wept when choosing the site of his factory in a marshes on the bank of the river, because he knew that this factory was going to involve the destruction of that environment in which it was going to be located. You have to look at the Left Margin – I propose that exercise if you ever pass there – from the area of La Arboleda. Imagine what that left margin would be if we pulled out the concrete and cement skin above it. Toponymy gives us a clue of what the Left Margin could be 150 years ago from the Bilbao Arenal, Las Arenas, Padura, Deserto-Barakaldo... The ecosystem was one of the victims of the savage process of industrialization, but not the only, of course. We do not know whether Víctor Chávarri and the rest of the founders of the major industries of the Left Margin gave them the same impression as environmental destruction to check the living conditions of their workers. The story of Ezkerraldea is a story of class class, class struggle, top and bottom, of Neguri and mining villages in La Arboleda. While some lived in small bourgeois ghettos with all kinds of luxuries and comforts, the workers of the Left Margen were often overcrowded in inhumane conditions. The doctors who attended the hospital in the mining area, for example, told them that the wounds they witnessed there reminded them of those they had seen in World War I. Ezkerraldea became over the last century a factory that arrived from the Cantabrian to the heart of Bilbao. They say that at five in the morning the streets were a boil of workers, three shifts away. It did not stop production in dozens and dozens of large factories. There's a lot of history to tell about the Left Margin. For many of us it is our history, that of our families. But it would be dangerous to approach this issue from the lyric, although it gives for it; it gives for the lyric, it gives for epic and even for the epic if we set ourselves, since a whole society was built and on that industrial society was based the prosperity and economy of an entire country. But I am not going to make a panegyric about a missing world, about a world with many dark, about a past world in Ezkerraldea with full employment yes, but with very high social costs, in which industrialization, often in the Mannesterian style, also reminded us of the Moloch of progress, to which the workers were sacrificed in the movie Metropolis, or if we want to make a more youthful approach, the Chaplin trapped in the production wheel in modern times. Those times are over. In the ninety-year-olds the economic concept was the industrial reproduction (la reconversion industrial) of reconversion. We were told that the new, more modern, more efficient industry would be brought to us when we closed the heavy ones. A lot of people said at that time that the first part of the plan was confirmed only in this planning, namely, that big companies would disappear, but that innovation wasn't guaranteed at all. That's why we talked about remotals, but about demitation, and we warned him that the South would become industrial deserts. Unfortunately, time has given us reason. In the 1990s, this transition from the industrial model to a new one was consumed, in which construction and services gained prominence. But even in the most positive years of the previous economic cycle, which we have unfortunately already found to be not based on healthy structural growth, Ezkerraldea was at the tail of Euskal Herria in the main socio-economic parameters. And at the heart of this problem was what was an undeniable reality: Ezkerraldea had lost its industry. The so-called industrial conversion was a scam on an entire region, another euphemism. They said "reconversion" instead of saying "closure", as they say today "austerity" instead of saying "social cuts", or "flexibility" instead of saying "free dismissal". Actually, today Ezkerraldea is an industrial desert in which a handful of factories survive, with exceptions, of medium-low technological level. Some like La Naval or ACB, always with a sword of Damocles depending on their future, either for the international economic situation or for more bloody aspects, for avoidable, such as energy costs. The first company in Barakaldo today is the hospital of Gurutzeta; the second, the City Hall. The outbreak of the crisis has highlighted the fragility of the dormitory and supermarket population model that some had assigned to Ezkerraldea. This model barely disguised the crudeness of industrial dismantling for a decade and today has collapsed like a pool of cards. Alarms have been on for a long time in this region and economic indicators have fallen into thin air. Ezkerraldea is today a leader in unemployment, poverty, insecurity and evictions. Some data, such as the unemployment rate of Sestao, bring us back to the hardest years of the 1980s crisis. Sestao, a town that has gone from 42,000 inhabitants to 27,000 in 25 years. To avoid as an example, and as an example, as a test of the data, we shall mention three facts: The left hand has the highest unemployment rate according to all investigations (the decryption change by source and date, but they all place it around 20%). The left hand is the lowest raw, internal, internal, internal performance of this autonomical association: 25,000 euros, 84% of the average, as CES says. And the left side has the highest rate of raw poverty, as the Foessa report says. Everything in Ezkerraldea was designed to serve an industrial model that has disappeared today: transport, houses, villages, urbanism. This disappearance of this industrial model, on the basis of which the entire escualde was designed, causes serious dysfunctions. There are many people and little employment, there has been no model replacement, we have literally hung from the brush. We have an escualde designed for a socio-economic model that does not exist today. And those dysfunctions translate into the alarming social indicators I mentioned earlier. This is the reality of a region that has been the cradle of the wealth of Euskal Herria and is today in an emergency situation, and also of abandonment by the institutions. This, which is serious, we have to say it too. The institutions of this country have not lived up to Ezkerraldea. They have not been able to respond to the needs of this escualde. The wind of history has taken away the promises of reindustrialization and left the raw reality of deindustrialization. When designing strategic projects for the country, for some Euskal Herria it was over in Basurto, it did not even reach Zorroza. The centre of gravity of the Basque economy has moved dramatically, leaving the Left Margen in a peripheral area, and this condition threatens to be chronicled and the area may shift from peripheral to marginal. Ezkerraldea has not been and is not today on the agenda of Basque institutions as the priority that should be. The left hand region has special characteristics. It was the cradle of Euscalization, and consequently the 19th and the 20th. in the ages he had lived in rapid and violent changes. While the wealth created by industry went on to other places, the extreme effects of an unbalanced development which were suffering in the left-hand side: ecological catastrophe, chaotic city-making, exploitation, but work was guaranteed for many decades and the workers who came from many different sites built a region of personality and great variety. Now, when it's a very serious situation, we think the Left Side needs the special attention of this working-room and the funk, the special attention of all the institutions. This request is not a declinator to other regions: Working solutions to the left may also be applicable to other regions in similar situations. But we believe that the left must have a pre-eminence for both decisive reasons: for, on the one hand, by the number of populations, it is the most populous district in the Basque Country, which is not the capital; and secondly, because it suffers the most serious condition in essential matters, as has been shown before. The situation in Ezkerraldea would require preferential institutional attention even if history were different, due to the severity of its economic indicators and population volume. Let us remember that in Ezkerraldea, if we include the mining area, 10% of the Basque population lives. But starting from our history, this institutional attention is a moral debt, a historical debt. From Euskal Herria Bildu we say it clearly: Euskal Herria has a historical debt to the Left Margin. In the replication of the left, internal or external forces are necessary, and therefore the active explanation of the Basque institutions is indispensable. We start from the basis that the problem is structural, and before that structural problem we are aware that structural solutions (economic, political and social) are needed. And in order to provide structural responses, we need a long-distance strategic approach. We will propose, then, that the presentation that this Parliament is going to make – I believe that there is already a compromise amendment that has sufficient support to move forward and, therefore, this Parliament will constitute this presentation – address its activity from a holistic approach, both in the temporal dimension, by putting forward short-, medium- and long-term measures, as well as on the subject, covering areas such as urbanism and the environment, transport, services, poverty, employment and so on. It is not just a question of helping businesses, of managing the possibilities offered by, for example, the inclusion of Ezkerraldea in the parameters according to which the European Union makes it possible to offer public aid. It is a question of placing the Left Margin and the Mining Zone in their rightful place for their history, their population size and the deterioration of their socio-economic situation. It is not just a question, as I said, of managing the aid that the European Union now allows to give, even if it is an important point that needs to be integrated into this work. The aim is to integrate such aid into a broader comprehensive reactivation programme for Ezkerraldea. I do not, of course, say that this Parliament has a magic wand or that it is the only institution that has powers or has something to say. We believe that what would be our responsibility would be to help stimulate a debate that would be the responsibility of all the social, economic and institutional actors involved. We will propose that the work of this commission is based on the parameters of endogenous development (tokiko garapena), corrected in its limitations when these are manifest. In other words, we will try to find a strategy that maximizes the existing own resources in the Left Margin and that helps from the outside when these resources are insufficient, with re-industrialisation as a maximum objective on the horizon and the search for synergies between Ezkerraldea, Meatzeta and Enkarterri as a reference too. We want to start with a complete analysis of the Left Margin and the Mining Zone and we want to develop it. We want to know precisely its macroeconomic and social parameters, its reality, to speak with its institutional representatives and with its social agents. We also want to know, of course, what those who are already working in the area propose to us, because there are many people who are working with different orientations, but who are doing a job that needs to be recognized and from which we need to leave. But we also want to know what we can help them with, what we can provide, both theoretically and materially, with the resources that can be activated from this House in this regard. And we also want commitments, moral commitments and also practical commitments (legislative and economic) towards Ezkerraldea. Ezkerraldeko egoera ez dellako konponduk soilik hitz politekin. Therefore, in the proposition we shall try to-day, these great furrows are received: First of all, the socionomical state of the region on the left is especially serious. Secondly, to admit that it is a necessary part of the engagement and effort. Thirdly, To the Institution of Parliament, or Parlage, which I have mentioned, with all the Agents, and Possible Ways of Resolution. To propose the minimum targets and furrows between the organizations between the left and the mine to recover. And, in the latter case, demand that the Economics, Developments, and Compulsions should be effected among the districts where the European Union has deemed a weak condition for productive industrial conversions, and in order to maintain employment and activity. This is where we think we've marked a path sheet, a suitable trail sheet. Now we have a great challenge to bring this plan forward. And I said I would finish it by making a mention of the Oarsea. To propose the examination and measure of the Oarsoran, is also to place itself between the ends of this work. In our original proposition, we only talked about the Left, the Mines, but other groups asked us to include the Oarso. We thought that each region, though common, had its own features, and that they deserved different controversies; but with the same end, with different processes and methodology. However, as the other teams have asked us to, we put the Oarsoea into this power. We thought it would be worth a specific job, so I've focused on my interference on the left. That's right, our team is going to get involved, no doubt, in working for these two important regions. And the result of the labours which are to be done in this excellence, we hope to draw useful and useful measures out of both countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u3	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. My guests too. To talk about the Left Margin and the Bizkaia Mining Zone is to talk about the more intense and massive industrialization and economic development of Euskadi in contemporary times. But all this momentum disappeared with the exhaustion of mining and with the crisis and the corresponding industrial conversion of the 1980s, which devastated the traditional massive industries (iron and shipbuilding), and, with them, the entire region's economy. The crisis led to a major structural stoppage, the degradation of historic neighbourhoods and the emergence of very extensive industrial ruins, which, in addition to degrading the area, prevented new urban development. The situation was so dramatic that the institutions (specifically, the central and Basque governments, the Vizcaine Diputation and the municipalities of the area) and also the PNV political parties, the Socialist Party and the People's Party created a plan for the revitalization of the Left Margin of the Nervion, which began to be implemented in 1997. This plan ended at the end of 2000, but in January 2001 a new phase of the revitalization programme was signed, incorporating, in addition to the industrial activities of the first phase, other very necessary subjects, such as infrastructure, employment, social welfare, environment and housing. Eusko Alkartasuna was also incorporated into that phase. In short, that plan, with all the problems, was good, because it helped the region out of its prostration. But even so, the Left Margin and the surrounding regions also present today a worse situation than the Euskadi average in most of the indicators that are considered key, such as unemployment, population variation, ageing, industrial employment, poverty, income guarantee income coverage and others, because, unfortunately, we could continue. For this reason, the main efforts of recent years have focused on the development of idle industrial soils as a result of the closure of companies, such as Altos Hornos de Bizkaia and those of the Babcock, in order to have solar plants in which to sit new industry that generates employment and wealth. Even so, 2014 closed with 24,169 people unemployed in the region, which means an 18.7% index, not to mention Sestao, which has the highest unemployment rate in all of Euskadi. In addition, the Left Margen has the highest youth unemployment rate, at 46.8%. So it is not only the bad situation, but also the opportunities for new generations are smaller. And something similar, although with slightly less bad indicators, happens in Gipuzkoa with the Oarsoaldea region. For example, the youth unemployment rate there is similar to that of the Left Margen, and the overall rate, at the end of 2014, is 15,01 % higher than the Gipuzkoa average. Oarsoaldea is not very populated (there are slightly more than 71,000 inhabitants), but it is an area particularly punished by the economic crisis. It is also a socio-economically depressed space, always pending strategic action, such as the integral regeneration of the Pasaia Bay environment. That is why the European Commission has declared these two regions, Oarsoaldea and Margen Izquierdo, disadvantaged areas for the purpose of receiving aid for industrial reactivation. And this is a very interesting fact, because even the European Union believes that these two regions need specific help to move forward. So it is clear that instruments for economic recovery and job creation are needed. It is a question of revitalizing the area left vacant by an industrial fabric in disuse, providing it with modern and orderly infrastructures that allow the establishment of new industrial, tertiary or services enterprises that will enable the creation of new jobs. But it is also about urban regeneration and other actions that I will now comment on. It is true that the situation in the Left Margin and in Oarsoaldea is not as dramatic as in the 1980s and that all the institutions have acted and act with different initiatives. However, it is essential that we all work together to bring these areas to the average socio-economic situation in Euskadi. Above all, because in a time of crisis such as this, imbalances between the regions will worsen if measures are not implemented. Therefore, when in 2013 the Socialists agreed with the PNV on the plan to achieve a more modern, solidarity-based, sustainable and competitive Euskadi, we introduced specific measures for the regions with higher unemployment rates, some of them to help the recruitment of long-term unemployed and young people without work experience, and others for regional employment plans. But, in addition to all these immediate measures, the scope of the problem requires comprehensive action, with the help of all (institutions, political parties, trade unions, social partners, economic and industrial actors), to make a comprehensive plan for years that, from a global perspective, builds the future of the Left Margin and Oarsoaldea. That does not relieve the Basque Government of its responsibility to do everything it can immediately. One thing does not exclude the other. They are different scopes and times, and complement each other. The presentation will decide, with the help of all the institutions and actors attending, what are the priorities for achieving the development we want, but they will certainly be important objectives in the effort to achieve sustainable growth in the first place. A reindustrialisation too, because there is no wealth creation without industry. An industry that incorporates new activities and for which the use of idle industrial soils, especially of institutions and public enterprises, will have to be promoted, as already done in the previous plan (we have magnificently located soil, next to the highway, near the port). But that momentum must be to move forward at once also in polygons or business parks, such as Burceña or Ibarzaharra, which have not just started. Urban regeneration, which is necessary for quality development, will also have to be addressed. There is no modern industry in an urban environment without quality urban planning. The environment, housing, transport infrastructure and communications will all have to be worked on. Communications will need to be expanded and made more frequent, for example, in order to provide an adequate exit and entry to the port, with realistic plans to be implemented at once, or in order to make the Leioa tram already. And along with reindustrialization and urban regeneration, we will have to do what is necessary to stop the population loss that follows year by year, because in the Left Margen still the deaths exceed the births. And we will have to address employment and social welfare, the boost to services, also to advanced services for industry, cultural tourism... And we could go on. There's a lot to do. The trend must be reversed and greater territorial and social balance achieved. In all this, public-private collaboration will be essential. Institutions should also act as a lever for the private activity envisaged in the plan. For all this and for much more, if the paper considers this to be the case, we will urge the institutions to agree and to put in place the necessary means. Because from the perspective of an integral development that leads, for example, to these regions to the average unemployment rates of the Community and guarantees a solid future, given the situation, only the institutions can do this by working together (the municipalities, the corresponding parliament and the Basque and central governments). The parties will be there to put ideas, to support and to demand. There are precedents that indicate that this is the solution. Without going further, this was done in the previous inter-institutional plan for the Left Margin, which I have commented on, and also in Bilbao Ría 2000. In conclusion, I would like to stress that I believe today is not a day to discuss matters of partisan interest. Today it is up to us to tie our shoulder, because it is essential to revitalize the Left and Oarsoldea Margin. That is why the substance of the compromise that we have reached – I understand that all the groups are favorable, the signatories and the non-signatories – we considered that it was the perspective that the Socialist Party has introduced, fundamental: that the paper collects the basic guidelines and the minimum objectives to achieve these things that I have commented on, above all a stable and solid future for the Left Margin and for Oarsoaldea. It is not a question of Parliament making any plans, but of, after listening to all the agents who may have something to contribute, laying down the guidelines for us all to work together to bring forward the two most disadvantaged areas of Euskadi. We cannot allow this difference between regions so accused in Euskadi, nor can we allow the citizens living in them to have worse living conditions than those of the rest of the citizens of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u5	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Mrs. Ruiz, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u6	Egun on, good morning. Thank you, President. Shortly before the start of the procedure for approving the budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community in force today, the People's Party, one more year, proposed to the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party the need and the offer to agree on a reindustrialization plan for the Left Margin. And then we also offered, as a party with important representation in all these municipalities and also as a party responsible for the Government of Spain, to involve the central government in this possible inter-institutional plan. For the People's Group this approach was key in the budget negotiation and we tabled an amendment to the draft budget amounting to EUR 1 million (undoubtedly insufficient, but EUR 1 million), money that we wanted to be earmarked specifically for the reindustrialization of the Left Margin. With this very recent and concrete proposal, we wanted to compensate for the lack of leadership and initiative of the municipal governments in this area and to involve the Basque Government to a much greater extent, with concrete policies and money. This proposal from the People's Party which was made public through the media, and, more importantly, with a concrete amendment in the budgets, was not supported by the parliamentary groups in this House who agreed and negotiated the 2015 budgets. In other words, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party did not support the People's Party's proposal to allocate EUR 1 million for an inter-institutional plan to reindustrialise the Left Margin. And this was just a few months ago. However, in February, Economic Development and Competitiveness Advisor, Arantza Tapia, announced at an information breakfast in Bilbao aid for industrial investment in areas declared disadvantaged by the European Union. It would be aid for investment in the Left Margin and in Oiartzualdea, but we do not know its intensity and also its amounts. Today we are discussing an initiative by Bildu, which proposes to create a paper within Parliament to study the situation in the region and then propose an interinstitutional plan. The Group of the European People's Party naturally does not feel bad about this initiative, especially the part which proposes an interinstitutional plan to revive the region, because it is very similar to our proposal which did not come forward in this Parliament. I'm sorry it was that way. Today we would not be debating this point and we would have earned time and money: five months and at least one million euros. But, in any case, our group has tabled an amendment which is not incompatible with what Bildu proposes, but in which, knowing the intentions already stated by the Government through its adviser, it urges it to materialize them; in short, to know how much money, how and when. With our amendment, I would like to insist that the subsidies for this industrial investment should be put into practice and implemented, that they should be put into practice. Let's see if this time we do. This initiative comes to this House at a time, it is clear, imminently electoral. In fact, a group of Parliamentarians from Bildu took advantage of their pre-campaign space in EITB yesterday to sell their proposal, which is in their right, logically. But, I insist, today we are going to see that no group wants to stay on the sidelines if what it is about is giving prominence and paying attention to the Left Margin. But what is going to come forward is a presentation and a commitment of a plan for the future; and what would have come forward at the time, when the People's Party proposed a reindustrialization plan, today would be in effect, today would have money and today would have deadlines. Socio-economic indicators are more than known with or without presentation. If employment is the main concern of Basque society, in the areas to which our amendment refers and what will eventually be adopted (Margen Izquierda and Oiartzualdea) this concern is even more disembodied. The attention to the Left Margin and the need for a reindustrialization plan is not from now on, it is not pre-campaign. Apart from what this Parliament is doing, which is going to make a presentation, but which will take its time and in which there will be a lot of work, urgency is imposed, and citizens now have a golden opportunity to decide which municipal and outlying proposals can best contribute to the necessary economic revival of the area. Because today we will have a paper to work on and in the future we are supposed to have a plan, but tonight the candidates have to get wet and say what measures in terms of taxes, economic promotion, employment have each and every candidate for mayors and deputy generals. Mr Casanova has already put forward the existence of a compromise amendment, which our group has not signed but which will support, as our amendment is reflected in that compromise. The spokesmen who preceded me have briefly exposed the history of this region and have alluded, in the case of the Basque Socialist Party, to the inter-institutional plan of the late 1990s, where the then People's Party Government also intervened, as I would be willing to do now, that this was our offer along with the amendment to the budgets that was not approved. If we proposed it a few months ago, I see no reason why we should not approve it now and promote it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Mrs. Corracles, the Eubertarian, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. Good morning, President, chief officers. Anne, the session, and Michael are three real persons with apparent names, of course the Eibars, and Zalla. Three people in unemployment, and who may think that this discussion now proposed will challenge the state of certain countries in a place which represents all the Basques of the three historical regions. These three real persons who suffer unemployment and economic difficulties are like Irun, Barakdo, Setstas, or three other persons of the Holy Scripture. I see the important thing in this case to say to Ane, Session, and Nikolai, that the "Eunk" is in a state of unemployment, and that all the people who have economic difficulties are equally aware of it, no matter where they live and no matter where the economic context of the country or the region is. The proposed group, EH Bildu, focused its non-legislative proposal on the left margin region and subsequently introduced, through the various amendments and in today's debate itself, the Mining and Oiartzualdea Zone, which we are pleased to see, because in that sense our amendment of all was also going. But we cannot forget that Oion is the municipality with the highest unemployment rate, that in Eibar there is also a great concern about the loss of industrial activity and that in Zalla in recent years tensions have been generated in the paper industry, for example, and that they have also affected the unemployment situation of many people. Policies, therefore, to generate economic activity for all areas of Euskadi, because we are an industrial and service country that must continue to bet on generating quality employment. It is true that there are areas in which the European Union has identified areas where the regional aid guideline applies. And it is that, although for each person in particular the unemployment situation is a breach of his/her life plan, there are areas of special attention for the unemployment data they present. The areas with the least unemployment in the Gorbei, with the rate of unemployment of 6, 93%, and the Arabat Mountain, with 7,4%, on the opposite side, the left rate is 20,1, 15 percent. We'll talk about these latter things today, at least my teams. The difference between one and the other of the district of the Autokamia Society, more than 10 points in a level of unemployment, than the difference between the Basque and the European Union, according to the official data of the Eurostats at November 2014, which is compared with the preceding events. But we do not think it is important to look only at this picture or at the marked drop in unemployment that we have just experienced, referred to in April, at the level of Euskadi, of just over 2%. They are fixed photos, in addition to the controversy that have the different forms, the method of measuring unemployment. We know that we have deep and historical problems of unemployment in certain regions, so it is important to look at their trends as well. Although in absolute terms the unemployment figures of the region that includes the municipalities of Barakaldo, Sestao, Portugalete, Santurtzi, Trapaga, Ortuella, Muskiz, Zierbena and Abanto-Zierbena are the highest, with more than 24,000 people unemployed, their evolution has been the most positive in 2014, since the number of unemployed has fallen to 751 people, which is 3.01 % less than in December 2013. The largest decline recorded in a Vizcaine region in the past year. However, Lea-Artibai, which includes among others the municipal terms of Lekeitio, Ondarroa and Markina, has been one of the three areas of the 12 regions in which Lanbide divides the territory of Bizkaia where unemployment rose last year, even if it was a minimum. We must be in the global light and work in the local or region, as in this case, and have concrete initiation and a lot of background work to improve these ratios. After this introduction to the state of unemployment, which we saw absolutely necessary, I shall confine myself to those regions which have been indicated by the proposed group. The situation of the Left Margin and Mine Zone is compromised, as is the situation of Oiartzualdea. We have been engaged for many years, we recognize it, but one thing is that it is committed and another very different is that it is unalterable. There have been and are governments and municipalities of different political colors operating in the different areas, and all of them contributing their granite sand, but it seems that speed or investments have never been enough for what the different regions demanded. Moreover, in the last 40 years, in the middle of an industrial conversion process, neither the conditions external to the generation of pure and hard economic activity or to attract companies to our environment have been the most ideal. There has been social tension over the closure of historical companies such as Altos Hornos de Vizcaya or Babcock, and, on the other hand, totally different, we believe that ETA's armed activity is also not to bring anything new when it comes to attracting entrepreneurs who intend to fix their projects in these areas. And there have been so many other additional factors that I will leave behind, but they have also damaged the progress of the regions. The Basque Government, from the Department for Economic Development and Competitiveness, is working and is developing the aid programme for the most disadvantaged areas such as Ezkerraldea and Zona Minera or Oiartzualdea, through which investment in these areas will be encouraged to boost economic activity and employment. Therefore, facts and not words, determined bets and a lot of work to get news like the one we had in the municipality of Sestao yesterday: an ITP company that will invest 2 billion and will employ 200 people directly. And we're not going to stop, because that's how Basque institutions act. We need more news like yesterday, we need more news like that. I mean, we need to keep working. We are asking for a presentation that analyses the situation in the region, and it is not going to be for this Member of Parliament from the Left Margin or her parliamentary group that we are going to miss a single opportunity to talk about the regions that need it. But the question is, speak for what? Because some of the representatives who have spoken before me have also commented on it. For what purpose? What can we bring that is not already being done? Because there are certain things, right, but do we need to duplicate the work that has already been done by government and municipalities with employers and social partners? Well, we're not going to say no to the paper, but we believe that an important job has already been done, at least in the Margen Izquierdo and Zona Minera area. We are talking about the unemployment situation in the Left Margin and its socio-economic situation as if nothing was being done to resolve it, and that is not the case. The region has a very high unemployment rate, that is true, but the main concern in the area is the low qualification of the unemployed: two out of three unemployed in the region have neither vocational nor university education. And the companies that are established in the Left Margin need workers, but with a base of technological training. We can make a presentation that treats him. It will not be us, I repeat, who prevent it and do not allow us to speak in depth about the Left Margin, Mining Zone and Oiartzualdea. But in the meantime, Santurtzi City Council and Sestao City Council have agreed on the third edition of their Prestalan program, in which they plan to train 500 people from both municipalities by the end of the year. There is inter-institutional coordination, there are plans such as that for the reactivation of Ezkerraldea, which took place last January between the municipalities and the Diputación Foral de Bizkaia, with assistance and advice to the enterprise. In Santurtzi alone, 40 promoters, entrepreneurs, presented themselves to choose to set up their own company. On the other hand, yesterday the socialist mayor of Portugalete presented an employment plan, Sestao did it two weeks ago; the unemployment situation in the Left Margin is not unalterable, therefore. One of our last initiatives has been to present two programmes, in this case in the municipality of Sestao, Gaztelan and Bizilan, to the call of the European Social Fund. The objective is to activate 400 unemployed people with an investment of 2.6 million euros. There are initiatives in the municipalities, in the Chamber of Deputies and in the Basque Government. We are not quiet, and I say this cruelly, waiting for EH Bildu to propose a new table of analysis, in this case through the creation of a paper in this Parliament. There is a future in the Left Margin, in the Mining Zone and Oiartzualdea, although in the justification EH Bildu does not seem to. We are working, we are working to attract companies, to train our people, to present our best face in this case as Margen Izquierda, far from what EH Bildu wanted to present in the explanation of his non-law proposal. Recognize with me that the Left Margin is something much more than an ecological catastrophe, a chaotic urbanization and labor exploitation. Messiness. In the Left Margen there are very good people, proud of their past, and especially of their work history, and their modest or large floors, and how they have brought families forward and developed their life project. And those who today are their daughters and children, those who came to look for a job or those who were already here, we only speak with great pride of the Left Margin and tell companies that they want to establish themselves that there is no better place in the world to develop their activity than the Left Margin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u9	Thank you, Miss Corles. Passing to the non-correction teams round Mistto-UPyD. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u10	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, and to the people who have come to hear this plenary. Of course, I share the concern of the parliamentary groups about the situation in both the left and Oarsoaldea regions and the need to take measures to improve the economic and social situation in these areas. As has already been said by all parliamentary groups, the rates in these areas with regard to unemployment are particularly negative and there is an urgent need to return to the situation. However, I do not agree that the way to improve the situation in these areas is to create a parliamentary presentation, I do not think it is the most effective. On too many occasions, and we already have some experience in this regard, parliamentary presentations are created that ultimately do not produce satisfactory results. More than papers, concrete measures are needed; in short, more than papers are needed to discuss what needs to be done, because what needs to be done basically we already know what it is. For the resolution of the problems of the Basque Country, and in particular the problems of these areas, the problems which are specific in some cases, it would be necessary to take far-reaching decisions and political measures by all the institutions involved, both Basques and those of the Spanish Government itself: To repeal labour reform, to put an end to the policy of cuts promoted by different governments, to serve the citizens with fewer resources, to fight poverty, to allocate resources to what is really important, to promote effective measures to create quality jobs, to advocate for R & D+i, to advocate productive investments, to train people, to help businesses and to attract new businesses, to reindustrialize and economically reactivate the areas, to regenerate them urbanly and very long-term, and also to concrete, specific measures that address the reality of these areas. Some have already been pointed out by the different spokespersons. Therefore, I believe that what should be done approximately we already know. What needs to be demanded, in particular, are measures, commitment, political will to carry them out, and, of course, require different Governments to make such decisions or to fulfil their promises. In the background, therefore, it is all invented, even if it is not easy to solve all these problems. What is needed, in the opinion of UPyD, is more than parliamentary speeches that are extended over time, it is political will and commitment, political decisions, facts, concrete measures and budgetary commitment, i.e. money; in particular, to spend more money on some things and to spend less money on other things that are much less important. I do think point 4 of the compromise you have signed is important. In particular, "materialise subsidies for productive industrial investment in areas declared disadvantaged by the European Union by the Basque Government". I felt better about the amendment put forward by the Basque Nationalist Party, which will ultimately not go forward because it will not have sufficient support. In any case, as seen and heard by the groups, the parliamentary paper will be created and UPyD will participate in that paper. I hope that it will be useful to resolve the problems in those areas and, of course, to reduce the inequalities in the Basque Country as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u11	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing on the turn of the answers, Mr. Casanova has the word that represents the EH Collect Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u12	Hello, good morning again. First of all, I have to tell Mrs Ruiz that I am glad that she has accused us of electoralism, because probably, when that accusation is made, there are two elements. On the one hand, there should be a good proposal on the table; no one is accused of electoralism when he does something wrong. But, secondly, another element is needed, and is that it is out of time, and in that case I do not accept, therefore, the accusation. I take your view that this is a good proposal, but I don't think it's out of time or out of place. This proposal responds to work that has been carried out, at least by EH Bildu, on the Left Margin for months. An extensive analysis of the socio-economic situation, one of which concluded that there were no endogenous forces in the skualde to deal with the gravity of the socio-economic situation and that, therefore, there was a need for both internal actors in the area and other external institutional actors to be involved; an implication, as we said before, legislative and also economic. And, therefore, as a result of that request and that work, which comes from many months ago, is when this proposal arises. And if it has now been brought, on these dates, it responds to two reasons. May it be today... It was not in our hands that there would be a plenary on the day the elections began; we thought we had brought it a little earlier, but the parliamentary calendar is what it is. But we were interested that it would be on these dates, or at least close to these dates, so that everyone would be portrayed, no one would come out by the tangent and this proposal would come forward, because we believe it is a good proposal for the Left Margin. We are not going to make a speech to talk, to make a report more or less beautiful, more or less large. Such a report and analysis must also be a working instrument and an instrument from which concrete commitments emerge; indeed, they must be materialized in investments, commitments and policies. And why a paper? Indeed, things are being done. All institutions are doing things, and there are also other social actors in the area, not institutional, who are doing things, but this is a work that involves many different areas that need to be coordinated and that need to respond to common objectives. We are talking about that here they have their share of intervention from the European Union to the municipalities of the area, going through all the intermediate institutions, and therefore this work has to be systematized and it has to be referred to a series of guides or parameters that give it a structural and strategic dimension. It can't be that every institution does things on its own. And it is not worth saying that employment plans are being drawn up, because employment plans, both local and parliamentary, are absolutely inadequate, there is no industrial policy for the Left Margin. If this government does not really have an industrial policy for the whole country, let alone a specific policy for the Left Margin. And this is not a paper that leaves anyone out. Of course, all the unemployed in all the places of Euskal Herria are entitled to benefits, economic support, structural support so that jobs can be created that can help them out of this situation, but, of course, there are Skualdes, the regions, socio-economic communities with specific characteristics. And it is not we who say so; the European Union itself establishes that classification and uses that working instrument, the escualde, the region. For us it is a reality that the Skualdes, the regions, have a series of parameters in common that allow us to face their reality starting from that socio-economic unity and that, therefore, allow and demand that specific policies be developed for each of them. And of course everyone has the right to work for the institutions to generate a solution to their employment problems, but, of course, there are some skialds and there are some areas that are worse than others. And we have not invented the concept that those most disadvantaged areas should have priority attention. Therefore, we will not accept, even if it is suggested, that giving priority to the Left Margin in the analysis and the proposal of measures implies any kind of marginalization or exclusion of other people. And we already said that, if you come up with a set of criteria that can be useful to then apply in other skualdes, we will maintain and transfer those ideas or commitments and we will be able to export them to other areas. But normally, in this life, in everything, we have to set priorities and we usually start with what is most urgent. And what is most urgent, without any kind of doubt and today, is the socio-economic situation of the Left Margin and also of Oarsoaldea, which, as I said, should have had its own path, because today – and it is being seen in the debate – everything is being focused on the Left Margin and we would also have liked it through another process of our own, and with a relationship and also active participation of the agents of the area, Oarsoaldea could have had its own debate. But, in short, we believe that this is a good proposal, that it is a working instrument, that it is not an end in itself to the creation of this paper, but that from here proposals will arise to coordinate interinstitutional action and to propose measures, which today do not exist, to reflect and to relaunch structural and global the whole Left Margin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u13	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u14	Briefly, to try to refocus the topic. In my previous speech, I think that a couple of times I meant that the institutions, Mrs Corrales, are doing things, doing things. All of them. I don't think it's a day today to decant more about one another or another. Things are being done by the Basque Government, the previous one and this one; the Basque Nationalist Party with the Socialist Party, with the agreement that we have for the promotion of employment, for reindustrialisation, for regional plans, for aid for employment, and it is being managed by the Basque Government. Things are being done in municipalities, as it has cited municipalities, such as in Barakaldo with direct employment aid, in Portugalete with an employment plan. Things are being done, of course. The problem – and that is the meaning of today's proposal – is that the situation is so difficult that all the institutions (located on the same table and with the guidelines that, after an analysis with the agents of the areas, mark the Parliament) need to address a medium-term plan that draws from the prostration to those regions, that above all leads them to the indicators of well-being, of average employment, at least for starters, of Euskadi. With the approach or reticence he has put on the table, that it would suffice with the Basque Government or with what the municipalities do, Bilbao Ría 2000 would not have been made. Do you think Bilbao Ría 2000 was a good thing? I think so. Things work better, they work worse, but Bilbao Ria 2000 has been a good thing. He regenerated Bilbao. I should have regenerated Barakaldo – we're not going to get into that now – but Bilbao Ria 2000 has been good. Why? Because the Government of Spain, the Basque Government, the Diputación, the City Council laid groundwork for one another, for another, for all to manage by mutual agreement and to carry forward the decisions they made and to regenerate Bilbao. It would not have been done only if the City Council had taken steps to make some urban improvement in squares or gardens, or if it had reclassified some land, or only if the Basque Government had provided aid for the development of Bilbao or for employment in Bilbao. What had been achieved in Bilbao would not have been achieved if Bilbao Ría 2000 had not existed, with the generosity of the Government of Spain, the Basque Government and the participation of the City of Bilbao and the Diputación. In other words, in order to make large enterprises in which to untie, drive or execute and, above all, to put instruments, means, the participation of different institutions is needed, inter alia, for what they have (the land) and for the capacity for management and decision-making. For matters of this magnitude, it is best that they all feel, when the need justifies it – and this is the case in these regions – in order to get ahead. Then I ask you to save that reticence and to continue, once you have given the support today, with illusion in the work that we must all do to bring forward the Left Margin and Oarsoaldea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u15	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Mrs. Ruiz, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u16	Thank you, President. The amendment, which is finally going to come forward unanimously, contains four points. The first, in order to ascertain the serious situation, is something that does not overly compromise anyone. The second and the third relate to the presentation, which, I insist, I do not think is too much. It was not the original idea in my amendment to the whole. More than anything else, because there are already 10 speeches that have been launched and in the previous 14 and I do not think that this issue can have the importance and the role that has been devoted to other matters in this Parliament, which has had presentations with a very wide range. And, therefore, we will support her. But the work of a paper, by definition, by its own functioning and procedure, takes time. Then, until the work is finished and until a plan is put into operation, with the institutional renovations of now and with the summer through, between one thing and another gives us 2016. I hope that the amendment that the People's Party will again put forward in the 2016 budgets on this occasion will be supported, because it would already have a crime if it did not happen. But of the four points in the amendment I would like to highlight the fourth, because the fourth and last point, for my pleasure, which was also the one we proposed, is the most tangible in the short term, because at the end of the matter it is that what the councilwoman announced is being fulfilled and that is materialized in money and in time. Besides, he's not subject to the papers. Apart from the work of that paper, this has to be done, because it is already urged; it is not urged until the paper's work is completed. And by the end of my speech, Mr. Casanova said that I accused him of being an electoralist. Accused, I don't think; I'll have defined him. It's just that I don't think electoralism is a bad thing either. Conversely, I am not going to say the topic – I was going to say the cursile – that the campaign is the feast of democracy, but what I have very clearly is that it is the opportunity for citizens to know what each one proposes. Besides, I have a lot of municipal experience, and there you can't escape. In the campaign you have to say what you're going to propose and what you're going to do. And if you aspire to rule... Another thing is that you think you're never going to rule, then you promise gold and Moorish, but if you want to be or you think you're an alternative or someone to revalidate, you have to put it right. And now the municipalities of Margen Izquierda and Oarsoaldea are going to know what the candidates are going to propose in terms of taxes, in terms of employment promotion, in terms of tourism... On many issues. With this, I say yes, the presentation will work, we will try to arrive at an inter-institutional plan. Above all, we will try to secure money and commitments for plans to invest in these areas. But I say that electoralism is welcome, because now we are going to portray all of us with the measures in those affected municipalities. And finally, a small mention of what Mr Reyes has said, which has made parallelism, I understand, with the paradigm of interinstitutional collaboration that Bilbao Ria 2000, society of which I am a counselor and know very well too. He says that with the will of all, with agreements, with generosity. Right. It is true that generosity also has percentages in this society and some are by quota more generous than others. Another thing is the generosity when it comes to having a leading role and presenting to the citizens the improvements, in the case of Bilbao or Barakaldo, etc. But, well, it is true that we have, fortunately, in this country many references and many models of what institutional collaboration is brought to fruition. And I trust that, if in the budget debate the People's Party did not have the ability or the chance to convince the rest to carry out that plan with that investment, now, when the papers are finished, this is possible. And, in any case, I would urge everyone in the budget debate to make money available for this plan, whether or not the work of the paper has been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Mrs. Corracles, the Eubertarian, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u18	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mr Reyes, I have never said that with the government and the municipalities it would be worth much less. All institutions are absolutely necessary, collaboration is necessary, inter-agency work is necessary. And don't doubt that in the Left Margin we have been working for many years and we will continue to work with the same illusion. Mr Casanova, in politics there are two ways to act. On the one hand, say, speak, and on the other hand, do; words or deeds. And in this case EH Bildu, in terms of the economic revival of the regions, usually takes the first of the options, i.e., speaking. Today we propose a presentation that covers the area of Ezkerraldea (we have extended it to the area of Oiartzualdea as well), a proposal that is already preceded also by other similar ones in this and other regions. And we believe that, instead of joining the work that is already under way in these regions, what their initiatives propose are only a reflection, and not only reflection, but action is needed. In 2012, he said that they also presented shock plans for the region of Enkarterri, as well as for other regions; in this case, for Enkarterri, for the Left Margin, etc. What was the basis of that shock plan? In the same way as today: a quasi-catastrophic background to announce that they want to meet with all the agents to analyze the situation. And I will read to you very briefly what they said in that excerpt from the shock plan for Enkarterri, because they have hung it from their own website: " Otherwise we are engaged in failure and our peoples will become'sleeping villages' without future for our young people, and without life for our trade, hospitality... But there is an alternative and it is the one presented by EH Bildu on 1 May, which raised the need for a shock plan in which one of the points underlines the need for a debate in each region of the country for the analysis and determination of the necessary social and economic development in each area." Debate, reflection... We need action, we need facts, Mr. Casanova. I understand that in most of the municipalities of Enkarterri and Ezkerraldea do not govern, but I hope someday they will present some content to us in their service sheet to the Basque people, in their employment proposals. That's how we expect it. On the other hand, they have also had the opportunity, for example through the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation, to realize their own solutions, the solutions of EH Bildu; for in Gipuzkoa it has been only four years talking about garbage collection, with the deep economic crisis that we have been going through. When will EH Bildu present facts? What positive response has EH Bildu given to conflicts such as Candy's in Bergara or Fagor's situation in Arrasate? A few days ago we saw EH Bildu's deputy withdraw the project they had submitted for Candy because, he said, "he lacks enough maturity." That was when they withdrew the proposal. We can also talk about Oiartzualdea, the Garaituz plan of support for the Gipuzcoan companies in a situation of vulnerability, which was included in its government road map for this year 2015 through the negotiation with the group of EAJ-PNV of Donostia. The reflection is fine, but the continuous reflection, gentlemen of EH Bildu, produces a government inaction, and people who seek are made, seek solutions. And I'm done. And I do support what the lady from the People's Party said in her first speech, which seems to us to be a unique and exclusively electoral proposal. Nevertheless, I reiterate our willingness to promote as many initiatives as possible so that we can talk more about the area of the Left Margen, of Oiartzualdea... We have no problem in supporting all those regions that need an impetus from the institutions, but this proposal, Mr Casanova, is nothing but pure and hard elections. Please acknowledge this, at least, because you did not have the parliamentary courtesy to seek an agreement with this group until yesterday afternoon, at three and seventeen noon. On the other hand, it did give you time to hold a press conference on the debate to be held today, and that is why we also have representatives of your group here with us today in plenary. Ongi etorri, by the way, to this plenary and this debate. But we don't think they've been ready on stage. Before yesterday, Tuesday more specifically...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u19	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u20	... the reserve of 10,000 square meters of industrial soil was approved for the development and implementation of a high-tech business project in the industrial estate Sestao Bai. As you will know, the company, specifically Precisgal Bilbao, a subsidiary of the ITP group and one of the European leaders in the aeronautical sector, has chosen the industrial estate of Sestao Bai to install its new production center. The landing of this company is an excellent news for Sestao, for the region, for Bizkaia, for Euskadi, as well as for the investment that will be made of 20 million euros as well as for the 200 direct jobs that will be created. This has been thanks to the work, coordination and commitment of the Bizkaia District Council and the Sestao City Council. And you don't get this every day, I assure you. Behind this project is a lot of work. But it's also 20 million euros and 200 direct jobs, to which his colleagues from...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u21	Go to the end, Mrs. Corles.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u22	... EH Bildu of Sestao voted not before yesterday on the board of directors of Sestao Bai. So, if you really – and we believe so from our group – are campaigning, cheering, because you have 15 days ahead to explain that no to your voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u23	Thank you, Miss Corles. Maneiro must not take the word. And now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect, the Euskal Socialists and the Eucabertians, the middle-class correction that the teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opposites are 0; white, 0; 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u24	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. Second point on the subject list: "A special committee for establishing the foundations of EITB reforms, as the legislative bill was made by the Socialists. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Unzalalu is the representative of Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u25	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. We present this proposition as well as the Socialists, in order to rethink EIB, so that this Chamber may express its position. What we want is that every body of the members of the legislature should answer the question: whether it is proper to dispute deeply about the example of the public têtelist. Sociists think so. We believe that there are quite sufficient reasons for defining the internal and general context which we want to serve as a public radio agent, and what resources and content, directed to what audience, and how we adapt ourselves to the present and future request of EIB. And we want this debate not to be exclusively the focus of this Parliament. We want a real participation of society, of the collectives involved. In short, we want to do so with expert views and with the aim of consensus. Because the socialists have our idea, but we consider it necessary to have other visions about this public service and that the result will continue in the coming years, beyond the concrete political junctures. This is what we want to present to the debate today. Today's reflection on this House and on society as a whole through this non-legislative proposal, like so many of our initiatives, is part of the analysis of our own experience and the contrast with society. Since the creation of EITB 33 years ago, no one has given rise to an integral reflection on the entity. But it is clear that the absence of such an integral reflection has not been because there are no clear differences on the role that EITB should play as a public information service, or on how it should address the challenges that exist in the world of communication. When the Socialists put forward this proposal with a model based on which to work in a parliamentary committee, we do so by being aware of the history of EITB and the answers that have been given from this House. Two reforms have been implemented: in 1996 and 1998. They were even pioneers, because in Euskadi we were the first to decide that the director of public television should be elected by Parliament. And we open the board of directors to social entities outside the parties. Two ad hoc reforms. And along with those, eight others not approved, none of them global. From 1999 until the last parliamentary term, both the People's Party and the United Left, Aralar, UPyD and the Socialists have made specific changes, concerned about various issues. For example, why not repeat situations of interinity in the direction, such as that which occurred in the case of Mr Ortuzar. We have also been concerned about the replacement of the director in case of death or incapacity, for giving the defender of the listener or viewer a role and relevance, for strengthening the contract-programme. In short, not a single proposal for a comprehensive review of the model: timely discussions that responded to short-term situations in the management of the entity. I have reviewed these initiatives, and, except for error, there is a relevant fact in this story: the Basque Nationalist Party has not been concerned about global reform nor about timely reforms. The reality is that, as soon as it started its course, the EITB identified the need for the global model designed in 1982 to be adapted, it had to be revised in line with what was being done in relation to the audiovisual media, and, in fact, a parliamentary committee had already worked from the very beginning on what had to be done. I would like to repeat from 1992 the words of Rafael Larreina, then spokesman for Eusko Alkartasuna, in a debate on EITB in 1992, because I think they are also worth 23 years later, because the Socialists then shared them and we now share them: "Euskal Telebista was born as a practical expression of self-government, and based on the concept of essential public service, the social media of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and in particular ETB, emerged as a key instrument for the information and political participation of Basque citizens, as well as as as a fundamental means of cooperation with our own educational system, and of promoting and disseminating Basque culture, bearing in mind, and I would say that especially present, the promotion and development of Basque culture". This was said in 1992 and remains perfectly valid in 2015, because the major issues remain: the debate on whether a public radio-television medium financed through general budgets should compete with the rest of the channels in any way, and also the debate on what its positioning in that market would be, things that have not actually been given. Criticism about the ideological-political use, control and monopolization of the entity by government officials is a majority. That is why we want to bring the debate on the mechanisms to be implemented to ensure the independence and plurality of the public environment. For our part, we strongly support maintaining the public service, a non-commercial radio-television that promotes culture, human values and coexistence in a society torn apart by terrorist activity. Our choice is very clear: between the commercial channels and the BBC, we stay with the BBC; between the public media controlled by the government and the BBC, also with the BBC as a model. We want the EITB to be as similar as possible to the BBC in a global sense. As far as the information is concerned, we would already like ETB to resemble those we met between 2004 and 2011 on Spanish Television, during the direction of Fran Llorente, which coincided with the socialist governments of Rodríguez Zapatero. What the Socialists propose is that, when the problems are detected, we do not delay any longer to remedy them, first defining the model and then carrying out the relevant legal reforms. Because, while society and the audiovisual sector have made strides in recent years, ETB has tried to adapt to new technologies with mediocre success, because it cannot be said to be equipped with the most advanced technology. Satellite broadcasting and TDT have been incorporated, the number of hours of broadcasting by different channels, the staff, the costs, but without increasing the real offer to citizens and failing to retain an audience of its own, which repeatedly and toddlerly chooses overwhelmingly the majority, even among the Basque population, the rest of the television options, both for information and for entertainment. The Socialists have pointed out the right path and that, given the many debates on this issue in this House, we believe that they are shared by the majority. We want a public radio-television that, one, supports the public service character that corresponds to EITB, incorporating predictions regarding quality, sustainability and efficiency, as well as its forms of evaluation and control. Two, ensuring their political independence by modifying the procedure for electing the director, as well as the powers and characteristics of the council. Three, arbitrate procedures to ensure transparency before their governing bodies and society. Four, incorporating the changes related to the business, structural and organisational changes necessary for the implementation of the new model. And five, it is committed to the production and dissemination in Basque and to the Basque audiovisual industry, in order to promote both the profitability of the entity and the strengthening of the Basque audiovisual sector. In short, a modern EITB, adapted to the new needs and demands of citizens, which regains its character as a public service and a reflection of plurality, which addresses the socio-linguistic reality, moves away from political conjunctures and focuses on quality and differentiated supply. That it bet on the skills of its professionals and that it be the engine of the Basque audiovisual industry, a more agile business structure and a professional leadership that does not lose the sense of the public and the need for permanent accountability to society. We believe that this should not be an exclusively academic study. We propose that academic contributions be combined with professionals, experience and industry. Those who are in charge of EITB today want things to remain the same as they have been, they want to leave the reflection in the hands of a leadership that this House does not trust, as has been repeatedly shown. Some of us propose asking ourselves a question: do we want a public radio-television that all citizens assume as their own, that bets on quality Basque production, that bets on Basque industry, that bets on exportable content to other formats and territories generating new revenues? If the answer is yes, let us bring in those who know and take the relevant political decision, because it is this House that will have to decide on the future of a service that today is questioned from within, by the professionals themselves, and from outside, because it is increasingly the citizens who move away from it. We want a consensual model that transcends political vicissitudes, that responds to the interests of the people of Euskadi and not to political conjunctures, to emerge from a sincere paused debate. We have signed a compromise with the EH Bildu Group, which I hope can be voted on by all the groups in this House, because in fact what we are proposing, the substance of this compromise amendment, is to start the full debate, that debate which said that has not taken place in these 33 years of EITB. We want that debate to take place in a special committee, following a methodology provided by the University of the Basque Country. But the fundamental thing about this is that this committee is already starting at this session and that it is working deeply from the next session, so that before the first quarter of 2016 we have conclusions, there is an opinion that is the reflection of all that debate of those six months, more or less, that we are going to have to work, and that, from there, sufficient time for this legislature to begin with the necessary reforms, with the reforms that we believe to be important, that we believe are essential for EITB to correspond to that means of public television that all Basque citizens need. It is a debate. We propose to you to begin this analysis, this debate, this in-depth, comprehensive review of what it is, it has been, but above all it must be the Basque public television medium. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u26	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Urzuno, representative of the EH Collector, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u27	Good morning, everyone. It should establish ground for EIB reforms, or else this proposition, as the Socialist proposes to us today. And, to say this, it seems as if it were admitted, or out of dispute that EIB needs reform, and we agree. And we believe this whole Chamber accepts it that way. We have to discuss it. And, as Mr. Unzalu asked in his speech, are we prepared to speak deeply of what must be the Euskal radio show in the future? The Basque Country thinks it's essential to do that. So the agreement with the end, but doubt, doubt, doubt, and at first the Socialist Party planned for its justification and its original initiative. Is there a discussion, but how are we to discuss it? At first, the Socialist Party planned the terms, as we believe, it was impossible for us to fulfil the end he planned. In other words, the way proposed or the way proposed made it impossible for him to carry the same argument properly. We've talked about it many times. that it was necessary to determine the challenges of the mastered television, a change of pattern, and that if the change of pattern is to be carried to the head, it must lead the change of the law with it, if things are to be done well. That's not the midnight cough of the goat and that's not for 15 days, not even for months and a half. It is necessary for us to make this argument with as much assurance as possible, and to make it necessary for us to do it with respect to the end and the undertakings which this dispute ought to have. As is said in the justification of the proposal, it is now regulated by a law of 33 years old. There is only a glance at the European context of communication in this area or this sector of adaptation, how many adaptations have been effected, here in ours, in 33 years, without any adaptation or complete freezing. It is therefore time to begin this discussion. Then we see that EITB has not answered the arrival of private televisions in 33 years; it has not been adapted to the paradigmary changes of digitalization, and finally has not been adapted to the lyrical development of the Basque Country. And all that must be answered. Thus the reflection, the discussion, and the inevitable change of pattern, which we plan here today, become to us. And the way proposed in the original initiative requires changes, and that's what the Basque Country has come to propose. The discussion, content itself, will come under the complex context determined by different variables or keys. The goal is to mark correctly: Why ETV? To get auditions? No, some targets to fulfill: to make a community of eupchar and escal. These are the words of Pello Sarasola in an interview made in the leather magazine before he became director of ETV. So that's the purpose of making euca and euscal community even from EIB. EIB must either be the principal means of extending the nation without a State which has less language. EITB must show a clear attachment to the objectives of generation. ETB rate has defined it for the last decades. The aim for creation, namely, the reviving of the cradle and the political cohesion or integration, instead of having been developed by a shared strategy, has been assigned to each chain a proper task: the recovery of the cradle to Radio ETV-1 and Basque, and political integration to all the rest. Wrong starting point. There are not two linguistic communities here: there is a small, eucacious one, and there is a great one, a young man, where the little one is a part of it. Since the lyrical reality has changed, and the desire to make eloquence general, EITB has been determined to accept this lyrical reality, and to act within it, to act in the course of the day. And this has certainly happened at the expense of the euphoria. The BBC canals that need a mirror for EIB, the channel that emilates in the Gaelic in Scotland, the conduits that emilize the losses of S4C Wales, and the channels that emilize in the Swedish Yle Fem Finland, all three of them, the people who don't own their language. And they have more access than ETB-1, more penetration than those who have no master of these languages, namely, Gaelias, gales, and suediers in Finland, much less eloquent than the eucaïs, much more penetration among those who do not possess that language. On the other hand, the State has made a complete bet of the central, private, and duopolis. Mediaset and Aresmedia collect 90% of television advertising and 60% of the audience. Let's remember: today-gaurkoz, the EIB Law is still under the State General de la Comunicación Audiovisal. The paradigmation caused by digitalization has assumed risks: he has brought with him competitiveness, and has brought with him the necessity of competing with the larger groups. But he has brought in the chances, especially with regard to the recovery of the eucalyptus, the chances which we think are not at all profitable. The discussion, as well as the rest, will be included in these states. And, as I have said before, this dispute is inevitable for us, but it is necessary that we should do it with as much assurance as possible. So, as we say yes to discussion, reflection, we say no to the mode of the Socialist Party in its original initiative. It has been produced and developed in the context of the organization of this EIB member, governed by a certain model, bound closely to the government and the majority parliamentary. We propose that the Basque Country should be carried beyond the political sphere of reflection; we propose a process of discussion which most of our agents will be able to contribute to. A third operator, the University of the Basque Country, we propose to make a design of this trial, so that the discussions we have to discuss should be relevant to most of the sectors. And this special committee, which we can form in the legislature, we plan to be either a political leg or a parlamentary leg of that general dispute. The site we would have formed by political parties, this committee, the discussions made in different instances, would be accession to establish the foundations of what must be EIB in the future. In fact, that's the contribution from the Basque Country that Bile brought here today. Let us discuss it, but let us do it as we ought, with as much assurance as possible. Let us extend the discussion beyond the political sphere to society, and enlarge the discussion to all the people who are interested in it. And we think this society will win, even as an EIB team. That's our commitment and that's what we've signed for, we've got a middle-way with the Social Party, where, in two different points, we plan this general, general discussion, this general reflection. Let's make a contract, a convent, the University of the Basque Country, and ask for a plot, a design, a special site or committee for us here. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u28	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we agree with the proposing group – Mr Unzalu, we agree, indeed – that while other public television stations were carrying out comprehensive reforms in these years, they were revising their model, structure, dimension, and trying to adapt to the new technological, market and new forms of audiovisual consumption, exactly in those approaches that you do in justifying your non-legislative proposal, we agree that while others were doing their work, here EITB has wanted to address only with partial adjustments, patches, that need. We share the view that in this legislature there has been an enormous limitation on the part of the public body in order to respond to the principles of objectivity, impartiality, legitimacy of our institutional framework and our frameworks of coexistence, democratic values and even the promotion of the Basque language. We have had a number of debates on this issue in committee in this House. It has been questioned, and we have done so from the People's Group, the human resources management itself in the public body; the management of personnel, the lack of control in subcontracting and the refusal to seriously address a resizing of Basque public television. Therefore, in our view, it is necessary to rethink EITB. And we agree that there should be an in-depth, serious debate on its functioning, organisation, management, principles; also talk about the founding principles on which the public service is based and its social objectives, public controls, participation, the defence of pluralism, the modernization of the house, transparency; also talk about financing, etc. The general management is questioned and we have seen it in this House. The general management of the institution has been questioned by this Parliament. We have attended debates in which the weakness of leadership, the loss of support, has been exposed. And, of course, we believe that we must continue to denounce what we believe to be a mismanagement of the public body EITB at this time. Is EITB sustainable? From our point of view, as is being managed today, it is not sustainable in time from a budgetary, management, size, etc. point of view. Do you do what the law prescribes with your public service? From our point of view, that too is questionable. Is it meeting the euskera's normalization objectives? From our point of view, it also leaves much to be desired in what has to be one of its fundamental principles, in the defence of Basque and linguistic normalisation in our Community. He doesn't, he does other things. And, of course, ETB-1, which has the fundamental role of promoting euskera, does not, in our view, fulfil the role it should play in our society. An ETB-1 with which an immense majority of our society does not feel identified, with which it does not feel identified, concerned. We believe that it has not developed the work, nor has it been modernised, nor has it been updated in time to try to connect with broader layers of our society, including young people. We do share the need to review, change, improve and redefine what EITB should be in the coming years. And that is why in our amendment we were trying to get closer to the position initially put forward by the Socialist Group, with that committee we are defending, with the creation of a special committee for the comprehensive reform of the public body EITB and its adaptation to the new times and new challenges. We proposed that other models of audiovisual reference should be taken into account for this purpose, the audiovisual panorama in our environment, models of reference and success that we can look at. But we have doubts about the procedure that is being put forward. We have doubts about the approach of an agreement of this House, of the Basque Parliament, with the UPV. We have doubts about this approach that it is the UPV that sets the path, defines methodologies, and so on. That creates doubts. That is why we, sharing the reasons that have brought this non-law proposal here and offering ourselves for reflection, and also offering the collaboration of our group to open that debate and for that reason, believe that this approach by Bildu, with that procedure through that agreement with the UPV, which is going to fix the route, the path and the methodology, generates enough doubts to announce today an abstention to that amendment that has been signed by both the Socialist Group and EH Bildu. In any case, we are committed to continuing to contribute to that debate, because we believe that we all have many things to contribute. Surely, the UPV too. But surely, in addition to the UPV, many others have to be able to help this House, and it has to be this House, the EITB Control Commission, which sets the path, the path and also the one which opens the debate and can channel, through public representation and popular representation, the route towards that comprehensive EITB reform. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u30	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u31	Yes, thank you. The Socialist Group initially proposed to us the creation of a special committee to lay the foundations for the reform of the EITB in which, in addition to the parliamentary groups, representatives of the employees of the body, experts and trade union organizations could take part. The committee would present an opinion with its conclusions in September so that, before the end of the year, the reform initiatives in response to that opinion could be undertaken. We were basically in agreement with the original proposal of the Socialist Group and were also willing to sign a transaction with this group. But finally the Socialist Group has decided to agree with EH Bildu. Finally, I hope that this does not mean that it shares the EITB that EH Bildu defends and poses. In any case, we had tabled an amendment to indicate the fundamental objectives to be achieved in that special committee, beyond the contributions that each group could make within that committee. And we were talking about the need to promote an in-depth reform of EITB and a resizing of the public body, with the aim of making it a truly independent public service and at the service of all Basque society. And we proposed that this committee present its conclusions within a maximum of six months. Therefore, commission yes, but clearly pointing out the objectives to be achieved, which in our opinion should be approximately the following: resizing the entity, turning the EITB into an independent public service, (independent of nationalism, independent of the Basque Government, independent of the Basque Nationalist Party, independent of the ruling party, regardless of who governs), turning the EITB into a public service serving the whole of society, not only a part of it, the nationalist, as has happened so far. And during all these years we have been pointing out the problems existing in EITB, which come from afar and remain very alive today, have remained in time. The sectarianism of EITB. Today we have a nationalist public radio-television for nationalists. An entity that has had and has as its fundamental objective the conversion of Basque citizens into Basque nationalists. A radio-television that has transferred a partial view of Basque society. An entity that has reported in a deeply sectarian manner and an entity that has not responded to the general interest of society as a whole. The implementation of a nationalist time map in the different ETB news, with the aim of trying to sell us the great Euskal Herria. The information in general, turned too often into monographs of the nationalist cause. The account of events in Navarre and southern France, dripping, day by day, to sell us this nationalist project. Discussion programmes or discussions based primarily on the concerns of Basque nationalism. The distribution of the times between the different political parties or between the different ideological currents that exist in Euskadi, always giving prominence and greater relevance to the nationalist feeling. The theme on which both the information and the debates are emphasized: insistently nationalist theme, preferably nationalist theme, priority nationalist theme. Not only the chosen topics, but how these topics are dealt with, the time at which the topics are dealt with, the language used, the way to narrate what is told, the moderators or many of the moderators, the presenters or many of the presenters, the questions proposed by the moderators and the presenters in the different interviews or discussions, the comments that are made. Finally, a number of facts that we have been denouncing over the past six years in this Parliament. For EITB, Spain is a foreign country; and on too many occasions, the Spanish state, an oppressive state. When we are informed of what happens in the Congress of Deputies, the Basques represent us only or the Basque Nationalist Party or Amaiur, the only Basque political parties according to the sectarian minds of EITB. The Basque parties are the nationalist parties, the Basque Euro MPs are only the Basque nationalist MEPs. Finally, what about the victims of terrorism, usually delayed and mistreated, when they should be defended, cared for and especially respected? We have today an EITB that has even been able to invite a convicted person for belonging to ETA and for terrorist activities as a Tertullian. Not to mention the audience data, which, even though public television should not be an essential issue, do not reach the minimum levels that should be achieved by taking into account the public money that continues to be allocated to the entity. In other words, much of Basque society has decided long ago to stop seeing and listening to EITB. This is a reality. We have, therefore, an EITB at the service of national construction, a means at the service of the abertzale community, a nationalist entity for nationalists. The Socialist Group is presenting this initiative. However, the Socialist Group is responsible for the situation in which EITB is currently in place, for not having driven, when it ruled, the profound changes that the entity already needed. The Socialist Group is responsible for the situation in which the EITB is today, for having acted with immense fear and obvious complexities, for not acting when it was able to act, allowing everything to remain essentially the same. The Socialist Group is responsible for the current situation in EITB, because it did nothing when it could. And not only because he did nothing when he could, but because when UPyD proposed measures to resize the entity or depoliticize it, he not only refused, but also legitimized with his speech the situation that we then suffered and today we continue to suffer. The Socialist Group is responsible for the situation in which the EITB is today, and in particular that it is today a sectarian instrument in the service of Basque nationalism, PNV and the Basque Government. The Socialist Group is co-responsible for having agreed with the Basque Nationalist Party on the election of the current leadership and the current director-general for mere partisan interests, through a pact whose actual content we still do not know today. Socialist gentlemen, what is wrong with you? Are you in charge of conscience? Have you made an amendment? Or is it because we have elections in sight? What do they know now that they didn't know before? Why did they not push these changes when they could, even when there was a majority to carry them forward? Didn't you see the problems that EITB already had when you ruled? Because we saw everyone else, except you, apparently. Or did they lack the boldness and courage to push them? Have you come to your senses? Have you seen the light? Do you now take UPyD's approaches? Have they become UPyD militants? UPyD has been demanding for years what the Socialist Group now seems to require, if we look not only at this initiative, but at the proposal for debate that the Socialist Party, signed by Mrs Media, sent to the political parties: restructuring and resizing of EITB, change in its editorial line, professionalization and depoliticization of its leadership, more objectivity, plurality, veracity and neutrality. Mr Unzalu pointed out that different groups have recently put forward different initiatives to bring about certain changes in EITB. It is true that we have been advocating an initiative here for two years to change, for example, the procedure for electing both the Director General and the members of the board of directors of EITB, in the same way as is done in the BBC. Indeed, here we defended it two years ago, and the Socialist Group, like all the other groups, voted against it. An initiative aimed at professionalising the general management, depoliticising the board of directors of EITB. And we proposed a formula, and the Socialist Group said that it was not necessary to apply that formula. And it turns out that he's now modeling the BBC. Therefore, you voted against. In any case, it is true that we have to carry out a comprehensive reform of EITB, which we have to make viable, efficient, modern and sustainable, which we have to resize, which we have to simplify its structure, which we have to make provide a genuine quality public service, the recipient and beneficiary of which is the whole of Basque society; not only the nationalist part, but the whole of society. We must make EITB a means of quality, professional, plural, objective, impartial, rigorous and independent of all political parties and, obviously, of the government in charge. That is why, in addition to thinking, decisions must be taken now. We have to move from words to facts. We therefore support the creation of a special EITB commission to fully reform EITB, but we do not share the procedure that is now being put forward through that transactional. We don't see it. Nor have the reasons for proposing such a procedure been explained, which was a procedure initially proposed by EH Bildu. I believe that the Socialist Group has not explained to the rest of the groups why the change of position and why the procedure put forward by EH Bildu now seems to be correct. Finally, I believe that it is one thing to seek agreements for the initiative itself to come forward, and another to assume without further explanation the postulates of the group with which it agrees.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u32	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u33	Certainly, these postulates have not been explained. Therefore, yes to the comprehensive reform of EITB, we do not share the procedure proposed in that transactional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u34	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. The last argument we had in this room about EIB, I tried to insist on the importance of EITB in the name of my party. I said it, and so we declared that one of the most prominent columns of EIB, EISS, is one of the most important columns of auto-engine, and that, if one of the most important columns, there must be a minimum of spiritual constructors for the consensusive, independently of opportunism, hypocrisy, and rhetoricalism. The main column, because in a modern and advanced society, we think that the euphora must be its place, and that the tools of communication are naturally used. We think, too, that in this importance it is the function of EIB to have a proper communicative camp, because the Basques have a right to receive reality, both of us and others, from our own point of view, by our own interpretation, i.e., by the hand of our public communication. That's very important. We also think that this group of media must be a generalist. And be careful, because, with some interpretations I have heard here, you may be sure that if the President of Utecá heard you, he would be happy and applauded. I think the minimum conviction is necessary. And we're thinking that there's no time for the minimum contact, because there's nothing to listen to from the spokesmen that you've been speaking to before me. The Socialist Party, which originally tabled this proposal, we believe that it is developing in this legislature an absolutely insane, opportunistic opposition to EITB, with large doses of political hypocrisy and also with a lot of electoralism. We think that the only thing that this is about is whether to clean up some bad conscience that you should have, or simply destabilise the institutions, and in this case EITB. I shall briefly refer to the document which Mr Unzalu and Mrs Mendia presented publicly a few months ago. I don't know exactly where that document was made. He doesn't have Basque music, I don't think he's attached to EITB's reality or Basque reality. But, in any case, it is curious that the star measure to modernise EITB and to meet the future challenges that EITB has is curiously semi-professionalizing the board of directors. Very curious. So the recipe proposed by the Socialists for EITB to adequately face its future is to introduce into the body a series of political commissioners, with a good salary, without anything important to do if it is not to entangle. That must be the objective and the challenge that socialists face against EITB, it is very curious. But that's all it produces is destabilization. Mr. Maneiro and I used to say this to him, because I also said this to him before: why now? It's legitimate for us to ask ourselves that question. Why did the Socialists change their position? Because they are in the opposition and they are doing electoralism, exactly as with the public call for employment of Eusko Irratia. Exactly the same: pure opportunism and pure electoralism. Because Mr.Surio, in the previous legislature, was tired of commenting on us – and we agreed – that we were faced with the perfect storm. And a lot of theorization, a lot of idea put on the table in that sense, and act, practically nothing, or at least not in the way you're proposing right now here. Because it is also curious, Mr Unzalu, that the pact you had with the People's Party explicitly stated that you were going to proceed with the reform of the EITB Act. Why didn't they? Why? And why now do you and these rushes come in? Do you want a comprehensive reform in three months? Pure electoralism, pure opportunism, and attitudes that fall rather in the field of political hypocrisy, Mr Unzalu. And that that in the previous EITB legislature was worse than it is now. It was worse, and yet they did nothing. As for the gathering, I think that in your contribution, in your proposal, you use two principal concepts: parts and pattern of method. You're proposing a member of Methodology. We had our doubts, but he'd read the halfway proposal, it's clear there's nothing clear about what that means. Method ward. Listen, and this Assembly of Laws, hath not the Agents, in this case, a part of our disputes? What does U.V. part of the methodology have to do with it? Is there any innovation here, by comparison, that we here, in the law, should pursue our paths? What is it? Order a Congress? A seminary? This house has its doors open for all of us, and every parliamentary group can suggest that any agent should come and contribute. We do not, therefore, see much meaning in this methodology. And besides, he supposes the expense of the Basque Parliament. And then the pattern, all the time the pattern. If we take the interferences of the member of the Union of Jox Agustin Arrieta, in the ninety-year-olds, we can find the same idea: example, EIB model. But what I see is, you're not precise when you're asked what the pattern means, what you want to change. For, in our opinion, it is necessary to maintain the public character, to resist it, and to encourage EIB to resist it. What are you proposing? ETB-2, Radium Euskadi and Radium Vitoria? Deleting? Or euphoration from top to bottom? Look, ETB-2, Radium Euskadi and Radium Vitoria may also be pushed into the Basque and Basque culture. Management. You didn't say a word today, but we don't see him alone with Officer EITB. Do you agree with mixed funding? Yes or no? What else? I'm telling you: "if they hear you, the elders of Utecá in Madrid will be very glad if your example is put in EIB. He hasn't faced digitalization, euska and private chains. What do you mean, no? He fights them. And for that, do you think that by changing the law there will be a miracle and then it will deal with it all? This is like when Mr Zapatero drives us a law to promote knowledge and thinks that by promoting a law, with a kind of magic wand, the whole society will thus embark directly on the knowledge society. What knowledge, when there are the levels of school failure that exist from the Ebro down? It's a contradiction in terms, Mr. Unzalu. By a law, by changing the law, do not pretend to fix, as with some kind of magic wand, all these problems. But what we're saying is that there's resources and tools to reflect on the strategic side, and that's where the strategic plan is. And besides, the strategic plan is very accurate. It's right there and there's precise measurements. And so, such reflection...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u35	Finish up, Mr. Uribe Housekeeper. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Yes, very soon, Mrs. President. What kind of contribution would an integral, trying to change the law in three months? And again, quality. EITB has received the prizes and has been a pioneer in Europe. My question is: if we go to seek the consensus, what kind of interactions have we heard of, your pattern matches the standards of PSOE, Pilpian Party, orUPyD? What can you get out of there? We need a different atmosphere, a quieter and a builder to start a discussion like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u36	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Passing on the answering shift, Mr. Unzalalu is the representative of Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u37	Thank you. I am not going to go in and give too many explanations as to why we are bringing this proposal here today. We do it because we consider it opportune. In addition, I said this in my first speech, the reflection that we have brought to this House today is part of the analysis of our own experience and the contrast with society. This is the time we have considered opportune, but it is not the first initiative. As you know, the Socialist Party has been leading in this House all the positions that are being taken with regard to EITB over the past year. And if not, go to the Journal of Sessions and see who we have proposed more initiatives in this regard. It is not an electoral issue, it is not a question of two weeks ago; we have been insisting on EITB's problems for more than a year. And what we want today is not to reproduce debates, not to go back in the debates. We want to open up a new field, we want to open up a new scenario, and, starting from something that I believe is a majority and that has been expressed here in countless occasions, as is the need for a thorough reflection in EITB, to do it at once. That is our purpose, that is what we propose to you. That is what I asked you in my first speech when I told you that we want all the groups that we make up this Parliament to answer the question of whether it is appropriate to discuss in depth the model of the Basque public broadcasting organisation. That's what we have to answer. We are not, I insist, reopening debates, we are not even closing debates. We have our own position, of course we have our own position on this, but we want to discuss it with all of you and also with all the social actors who can contribute something to this element that is fundamental to us. That is what we want to do, and not reproduce debates, and, above all, not close them. We want to open up a context in which we can all express ourselves, a context in which all positions can be poured out, a context in which we can learn from the experiences of society, of social actors. And yes, also from the UPV. That is why we have accepted that the UPV should make a first consideration of how a participatory process needs to be developed. That is why, and not otherwise, we have accepted that, because the fundamental thing is that we want this special commission to be created to reflect on the EITB model. Let's get to work. Let us not block this committee, but let us put it to work, let us each bring our positions there, and from there, as I say, let us draw conclusions. Besides, time does. It is six months of reflection and we have everything left of the legislature, after the first quarter of 2016, to implement the measures that are necessary to get that public medium that we all, or at least us, want. A public environment, as I said in my first speech, does not have to be for a juncture, but has to have a much broader, strategic projection in time. Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria, in that pendulum movement that you have, the PNV, in which the same thing is said about the integration of countries that are handing out Basque cards out there – yes, you are doing electoralism at the moment – you are in that part of the pendulum where you take the Basque card from one another and give it to another. I do not know what musical ear you have to say that the proposal that was put forward by the secretary general of my party and by myself was not made here. I don't know what musical ear you have. But what you're not going to tell me is what's Basque and what's not Basque. You're not gonna tell me what's Basque and what's not Basque. This has been done since our reflection, that of the Basque Socialists. And this is our contribution, which we will see, that we will put it on the table at the time of the debate. But, I insist, you are not going to give us any lessons from who is Basque and who is not Basque. He's not gonna take any IDs from us, because you don't give them. And then there is another issue that happens to you, that this House should not debate anything that does not suit the PNV. When the PNV doesn't work for him, it's electoralism; when the PNV doesn't work for him, it's political hypocrisy. When the PNV doesn't work, you draw any arguments. For what? Not to discuss what you don't want discussed. I have told you before that in 33 years you have not proposed a single initiative on EITB. We, several. And especially in this last legislature, but also in the previous ones we have proposed several reflections on EITB. But you, I insist, do not want to discuss EITB, as it is not a debate that interests you, so what you are trying to do is to cut it. But, look, you have 27 parliamentarians and you don't control this House. This House is going to decide today to open this special committee. This House is going to decide today that this in-depth debate on EITB will take place. This House will decide that this reflection that you do not want to do in order to adapt the Basque public television medium to the current needs and to make it much more efficient will be given, even though you are not interested in that debate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u38	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u39	Yeah. EIB must be an instrument of national construction. That's how it must be. And, as I have said before, it must be the public extension of a nation without States which language has been diminished, and this is what we attribute to it. When the important thing is mentioned, it's important also to us, in that context. Every public media seeks the cohesion and integration of their society, and also ETV must seek it. But don't leave it on a second level. And to us ETB, especially from the origin of ETB-2, has done as follows: to assign political integration to certain chains, and to refresh the support by adapt it to some sort of weakest chain. And that's what we want to change first and once. And because that's what you're asking me to change it, we don't pretend that ETV-2 should go missing or that Radio Vitoria should disappear. However, we think that from ETB-2 to say no more of ETB-1 can be made for the cradle. So we're on the side of running a process where the change of the law can result. Nay, we are for the sake of making a law of vision. And we know that we may not succeed in it, but what is planned here today is a discussion, a reflection, and what we do not understand is the fear of this discussion of EAJ. You say it's Ellectoralism, and you'll forgive me, Mr. Uribe-house, but I don't care at all because if you were the only one I'd be worried about and think about it. But what's the matter? A week ago, a week ago, all the parliamentary members of the EAJ took the word here, and all those who do not like the initiatives, were thought to be professors of all the other teams. The next day we had a control curve: there was no Councillor here who did not consider the interpelations and questions of all the rest of the party as apostator. At the first point of this union, Mrs. Corles considers the initiative of the EH Collectorians as an informant. You go out now and this is also an informant. It's all a story, when the initiatives EAJ doesn't like are planned on the table. Don't worry, just take it easy! We're just discussing a discussion, a discussion. And I didn't want to go into this, but I think every discussion EAJ, every discussion that can be supposed to be a change, wants to avoid it, it's very comfortable with the ways of our present action. And when it is considered as an end, the political integration and participation of society in EIB, which is at the moment a very dim line of the legitation of the current government, because the law itself does not determine, we believe that you are so comfortable with the modes of action which are now at EIB. We believe that it has been used as an instrument for political legitimacy, that it follows now, and therefore EAJ wishes to avoid any change, however slight it may be. You're asking about the news of the member of the Methodology. Methodology is a member of methodology. And we say: we believe that this Parliament must belong to him. Political parties, parlamentarian groups, why not, EITB is responsible for us. But because we give the same importance as you, we believe that this discussion must spread into society, that it must spread into the sector. We believe that scholars and professionals must have their word, and that, besides what this special committee can give them, there is another protagonism and another paper to be played through other participations and other methods of method. So, as time ends, I just want to point out that, as far as ETB is concerned, it means an engagement for a public media of quality. It is time for once to arrive at this discussion, and for once it is time for the 21st. to have a public and Basque media fitted by the master. That's our commitment. We'll see how far we're in this discussion process, what you're saying is, "We'll have to look for contact."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u40	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u41	What's the consensus between the Socialist Party and the Basque People in the United States or the Basque People of Partu and the Basque People? And what about EAJ?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u42	Thank you, Urruzuno...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u43	Well, we'll have to talk about things. And we'll deal with the Socialist Party and hope to agree with EAJ.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u44	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. The Basque Popular must not speak. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u45	I basically go down to the rostrum to congratulate the socialists, who seem to have seen the light and have realized that we need to reform thoroughly and fully EITB, which is what we have been proposing for quite a few years and which you did not want to carry out when you were able and when you ruled. And this is important, that when one rules and can make decisions, apply certain things to change reality. And indeed, EITB must be changed, a comprehensive reform of EITB must be carried out. So, thank you for that. Thank you for defending it now and thank you for defending some of the things that we have been defending practically alone; that we must professionalize the board of directors, that we must professionalize the general management, that we must turn EITB into an entity at the service of society as a whole and that it must cease to be an instrument at the service of Basque nationalism, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government. Mr Uribe, "there is no consensus," you say. Well, there's consensus depending on what. There is enough consensus to say that the current EITB is at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party and at the service of the Basque Government, there is a fairly broad consensus. There is a very clear majority of political parties that think so. There is, therefore, a consensus there. There is also consensus on the need for full reform of the EITB, which also appears to be a consensus. There is also a consensus on the need to set up a special committee to promote such reforms, there is a consensus. Because, even if it appears to be a lie, there can be consensus even if the Basque Nationalist Party is not within that consensus. And this is basically what you have to admit. For other issues there is no consensus, there are opposing positions. EH Bildu thinks that EITB has to be an entity at the service of national construction and by and for the Basque. We obviously do not agree. In some things, therefore, there is an agreement, in many other things there is no agreement. But what we do agree is that the current EITB is at your service. We do agree on that. And it seems foolish to me that you say that trying to professionalise the EITB Directorate-General is something like trying to introduce political Commissioners into that Directorate-General. Political commissioners are you, yours. This is what has been done, a radio-television that is at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party. They are political commissioners, not trying to professionalise the EITB Directorate-General, as has been done and is done in other countries in our environment that have public radios and televisions that work well and actually serve the whole of society, and not just a part of it. Moreover, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, assume that you are in a minority, assume that there is also intelligent life apart from the Basque Nationalist Party, assume that you have to yield on many issues and try to dialogue and agree with the rest of the political parties in this House. Assuage as soon as possible, because, if not, everything seems electoral to you. If you reject the law of public administration by a very large majority of this House, it is electoralism; if you pass in the paper on the law of housing an opinion that you do not like, it is electoralism; if you bring here the debate on the reform of the LTH, it is electoralism; finally, if you propose to reform EITB, it is also electoralism. I ask you for a minimum of humility. The Basque Nationalist Party is a fairly important political party in Euskadi, yes; it is the one that usually receives the most votes, yes; it is the one that governs Euskadi, or rules out in this case, yes; it is the one that is in the Government, yes. But there are more political parties, there is intelligent life beyond the Basque Nationalist Party. Therefore, they assume their reality. In fact, there is more intelligent life outside of the Basque Nationalist Party. But, in any case, acknowledge that they are in a minority and that on quite a few occasions the rest of the House, the opposition, is right in the approaches it seeks to push and carry out. So, humility. Humility, assume that you are in a minority and recognize that the rest of the political parties occasionally are also right.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u46	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, if you'll allow me the joke and take it this way, of course, beyond the PNV there is intelligence, but you'll have to recognize that the most intelligent are in the PNV if, as you've said well... [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u47	Isiltasuna. URIBE-ETXEBARRIA APALATEGI jaunak:... we take as a reference the electoral measure, to the extent that we are the party that has received the greatest confidence in this society for many years. You admit the joke, don't you? Okay. I believe that you have not read, Mr Maneiro, the Socialist Party proposal, which gives me the impression that you have not. But the way of choice, that semi-professionalization they propose from the board of directors, involves introducing political commissioners, and it is the star proposal to modernize EITB and for EITB to face its future challenges on the part of the Socialist Party, with salaries, logically. This is what existed on Spanish Television until recently and which the People's Party has removed. Well, that's what the Socialist Party proposes. Of course, which you consider, Mr Unzalu, to be opportunism, I believe there is a small step. And we sincerely believe that it is not timely at this time to address a debate of this magnitude, given the existing political climate and the enormous nervousness that some political forces are showing, taking into account the changes that are expected or might exist on the political map. And don't tell me that we, as people and as political parties, are absolutely isolated from certain contexts. And I've tried to tell you that it seems timely, opportunistic, and it seems hypocritical and electoral to me your attitude, because until recently you were carrying on EITB and the government itself, and you didn't. They had instruments and they also had the idea. In the pact they had signed with the People's Party, they explicitly said they were going to reform the EITB Act. And why didn't they? And also with regard to the public call for employment of Eusko Irratia. You've changed radically. So what? It happens that you change as you are in the government or the opposition, and that is not to maintain a coherent position, nor can you and your political stability be trusted with that. That's what I wanted to tell you. As far as consensus is concerned, I insist, there is consensus on many occasions. We, of course, are the majority party, although we are in a minority in this Parliament (that is why we are fully aware, do not worry), we are the majority party. And on many other issues I will not be denied that consensus is measured according to whether one of you is or is not, being a minority. And if Mrs Roncal leaves me, who listens to her own conversation, I insist that we are not against making a reflection, but we are saying that there are instruments in force that allow such reflection and that are much more effective, as is the strategic plan. And we say, and we insist on it, that by changing the law the situation of EITB is not going to change, as if it were some kind of magic wand. The debate is therefore open. I attribute it to some, I attribute it to you. I repeat that Utec, that is, the association of Spanish private chains, would be very glad to hear you, and very glad to have the pattern you plan. What I'm saying is that, from the strategic plan, you've agreed that they're making a series of steps on the side of the Basque ETB-2 and Radio Vidio Vitoria for the Euska and Radium Visia, with exact proportions, which, I say, may be encouraged, protected, and prepared in any language. Thus the example, if you like, is, that the strategic plan is more effective than the change of the law, and that there is no atmosphere at all. It's a discussion, but it's an effective discussion. "Del análisis a la parálisis." Well, we think it's much more efficient to use the tools we're working on nowadays, and not to go into something like that. And also, I'll tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u48	Go and finish it. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Yeah. Around the public offer, you know that the EIB Manager has promised and is now preparing a negotiation with the unions to determine the survival of EIB's planet. And I'm telling you, and believe you, if such a pontiff works in this house, then that reflection and this negotiation between the management and the unions will be checked. Be sure of it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u49	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. End of discussion, we'll vote for the Euskal Socialists and the EH Collectors' negotiation signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 37; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u50	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal, as the Julian Corps made, was to assist them in the affairs of the establishment of employment. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs Garrido, representing the population team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u51	Thank you, Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. It would be nice to have the President in this important debate, but it seems he won't be... Well, he says the chief physician will be here any minute. We expect you to come because, as I said, we are facing an important debate. Eplea and economic crisis are, after all, the most important problems of the community, and that's why the authorities have to deal with it. Our Autonomy in Er-Durmical, office rights in the company of the World's State of Guernica. And it's the purpose of the profession to get a high-quality job. To do this, Profession must design initiative to create employment with the assistance of local institutions. The local area is the best place to develop a productive network, so the jobs police have to get that area. Occupation allows several assistance to enable the project to create employment. The local plan collects special actions for people who have problems at work, according to the World Games Plan. And, as I explained at first, it sounds like history repeats again and with this suggestion, we want to re-encount the delay and responsibility of the Eucommene and the lack of responsibility. That's why we've presented three important points in our proposal. One, we ask the profession to decide as quickly as possible the appeal of the 5th of March 2015 to aid the expected evaluations of 25th. At the second point, we ask the profession to publish, with sufficient progress, the appeals to the local operations of employment, and the execution of its execution at the same year. At the last point, we're asking him to add support for local jobs in the next budget. As I said, history is repeating itself: we are bringing back to this Parliament the debate of an initiative concerning local employment plans because of the lack of diligence of the Basque Government in relation to these plans. A delay by the Basque Government in taking out the calls, the publication of the calls and the resolution of them. Last year, through an initiative this group already denounced the delay of the resolution of the call published on 17 October 2013 for local actions to promote employment. The lack of agility of this Government in the resolution of these calls, as we have seen with which I have just pointed out, has caused clear damage to the municipalities. The former adviser himself, Mr Aburto, in numerous appearances in this House acknowledged the delay in the resolution of these calls. Therefore, this call was resolved late. It was decided on 24 April 2014, when one month after the publication, i.e. one month after 17 October, by November, the municipalities had drawn up their respective employment plans which they submitted to the Basque Government. The delay – as I say, it was resolved on 24 April 2014 – resulted in an extension of the deadline for the implementation of the projects, initially scheduled for 30 September 2014, to 31 May 2015. Following this aid for the 2013 financial year, published by the Resolution of 17 October 2013, the Government, as justified by the new resolution, considered it necessary to draw up a new call for tender for the period 2015-2016 with the same allocation (20 million euros), from the budgets for the 2015 and 2016 financial years. In that debate, about a year ago, in which we urged the Basque Government to immediately resolve that call in 2013, we said that in 2014 there was a risk that it would be a blank year in terms of the call for these plans and so it has been: in 2014 there has been no call. We have this new call through this new resolution of 2015. The inaction of the Basque Government in relation to the calls and the resolution of these regional employment plans is therefore leading to a overlap between the various plans, which has led to 2014 having passed as a blank year. We already announced that they were going to overlap and we already said that that was why it was necessary for the calls to be resolved as soon as possible. And not only that the calls were resolved as soon as possible, but that the publication of the successive calls corresponding to the different years was carried out sufficiently early so that the municipalities could present their respective plans within the prescribed time frame – which they do – and then the Basque Government resolved with agility and, therefore, the money could reach the municipalities. Of course, the Group of the European People's Party has proved very striking that this Government has not taken note of the errors and its lack of diligence and irresponsibility, when the former councillor himself, Mr Aburto, already acknowledged with the decision to publish the call of 17 October 2013 that there had been a delay. That is why it has surprised us that, after the disastrous experience of last year's call, after seeing that 2014 could not have been a call, this year a new call is taken out and the exercise can also be very advanced when it is resolved, since, as I said, we are late. We put forward a non-legislative proposal with three fundamental aspects. That the resolution of the call of 25 March 2015 be resolved as soon as possible. The municipalities are already presenting their respective plans in accordance with this call, and, therefore, what is needed now is for the Basque Government to resolve quickly to enable resources and money to reach the municipalities. And we also ask that calls be published well in advance and that their implementation coincides with the budget year, with the calendar year. It's logical that you can pull out the call, as it happened in previous years... 2013 was the year in which the call was issued well in advance. In 2013 she was taken out on October 17, but what's going on? They later resolved very late and had to extend the implementation period of the projects, as I said, from September 2014 to May of this year, because the municipalities did not have time to implement those plans that they had approved (in addition with sufficient advance, in a month, because I say that they approved them in November 2013). The Basque Government must therefore try to ensure that Lanbide makes the necessary efforts to ensure that the call is finally made in due time and that it can be resolved in such a way that the municipalities can put in place their programmes, which are also intended to encourage the labour market and are aimed mainly at those groups with the greatest difficulties in entering the labour market, such as the long-term unemployed. We therefore ask the Basque Government to make this effort to get out of the overlap game year after year, which is leading the Basque Government to save money because they are overlapping. In 2014, for example, it has been a blank year and you have not drawn the corresponding call. And, of course, as we are seeing that the economic envelopes are 20 million euros or a similar amount, and these plans are to some extent co-financed by the municipalities, which we believe are already making a lot of effort and that competition in employment lies with the Basque Government and has instruments to do so, which increase this amount. We have signed a compromise amendment with the Socialist Party, to which I would like to thank you for your cooperation. We take up one aspect which they envisaged, because another aspect which refers to the execution of calls and to the implementation of the projects sufficiently in advance, so that the implementation of the projects can be carried out throughout the budget year, coincides with one of the pretensions which we were contemplating in our original initiative. I say that the other relevant issue refers to the fact that the EUR 20 million to which it refers being charged 100 % to the 2015 budget year; not 70 % to 2015 and 30 % to 2016, but everything is charged to the 2015 financial year. I believe that we would also do the municipalities a huge favour, seeing also the economic situation and seeing that it is the Basque Government that can make the effort. I would also like to thank them, because I hope that this initiative will also be approved by them, EH Bildu and UPyD. UPyD has not tabled an amendment, but in order to achieve that agreement we have incorporated another specific point in the amendment to EH Bildu, which we also incorporated in the agreement last year. And I think it is important to stress that these plans are tailored to the needs and characteristics of each area and region in order to address the existing imbalances, and that the recruitment of the Basque Government should ensure that the programmes carried out are subject to the collective agreements in force. I therefore believe that it is important that this agreement can be approved today. If that is finally the case, we are going to bring the colors back to the Basque Government on a recurring issue. And let's wait, Mr. Toña... You're not here. We regret that the Lehendakari could not be included in this first speech; we hope that it will do so throughout the debate. We believe that this is an extremely important issue. We therefore urge once again, in this very priority area, that the Basque Government should put the batteries in place and that there should be no further damage to the municipalities for the implementation of the respective employment plans and that they should not ultimately be the pagans of these delays. Because fighting unemployment – as much as this government says – means taking action to reduce the number of unemployed and not to fall asleep, as the Basque Government seems to be doing, on this particular issue. We believe, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari, that there is no reason for escapism, self-congratulation, triumphalism when, despite the good news that we are on the path of economic recovery, much remains to be done. And, above all, much remains to be done when we are seeing that Euskadi grows at a lower rate than the rest of the autonomous communities. Therefore, please consider this issue as a matter of utmost priority and make the necessary efforts to ensure that it is resolved as quickly as possible and that municipalities can count on the money they need to implement their respective employment plans. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u52	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, Mr. Ichaso, the Basque Socialist, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u53	Thank you, President. I don't really know if the smartest people are on the PNV bench, but I'm starting to fear that the toughest ones are. And if that's synonymous with intelligence, you'll have to admit that. I can't agree with you any more, Mrs. Garrido. You have made a description of what are the programmes, local employment plans, and you have perfectly described how, over the last few years, in a real trillery game, the employment plans referred to in 2014 have not been carried out. Directly. I therefore intended to start this intervention also by talking about lack of diligence, that it is a call for more speed in the processing of these plans, that indeed – and we agree with this – it is very desirable that these programmes and plans coincide with the budget year and do not differ in time, so that in the end it is not well known which programmes are being implemented. We fully agree, Mrs Garrido, but the truth is that so far there has been only disappointment. I'm going to be brief, because you've practically said it all. The amendment that we are proposing and which refers to the fact that these 20 million are liquidated from the 2015 financial year... It is true that the resolution of 25 March states that there are 14 million at 2015, coinciding with 70 and 30 %. But, of course, I have said on some occasion in this House and also in committee, perhaps in an excessively sceptical way, but not without realism, that there is a difference between powerpoint and reality. And I would like to point out again here that the plan presented by the employment adviser for 2015 talks about employment plans at local and regional level, 19 million. It's true that it's not 20, but it's coming closer than the 14. What we don't want is that in the end in that cryptic and, I recognize, difficult to follow, difficult to control, because it is truly a real totum revolution... All very systematized, very orderly, but so that there is no way to follow up on the implementation of the budget in the different chapters; it is really difficult. And, in case it was a thing about my few lights, I've contrasted it with other speakers and I see they have similar difficulties. Therefore, this principle of annuality, that this budget period corresponds to the plans. Second. Since they had the opportunity to squander local employment plans in one exercise, we understand that, clearly and routinely, this year this amount has to be devoted. This amount, which is then announced in all these documents that appear on screen and on the slide, will be executed in full, because in the end it will turn out that with the same euro plans and programs can be announced on successive occasions. That seems to us, as I say, an exercise of trilerism, an exercise of political stinginess that we cannot accept. So, I'm not spreading anymore. We have reached a compromise which the Government is asking for, in the terms that have already been expressed, is that this should be done, in order to ensure that these plans coincide with the budget year, that 100% of the amounts are implemented in this case and, if possible, that they are provided with higher amounts. There are also some complaints that I am not going to raise here, but that, in relation to all this, the collaborating entities, specifically the development agencies, are also suggesting, because these resolutions refer to municipalities, municipalities, but then there is a problem – I don't know if you know it, Mr. Counsellor – that there must be delegations from the municipalities to the development agencies, and then it turns out that there are municipal officials who object to this type of document in order to release the funds. It would therefore be interesting for Lanbide to openly acknowledge that the regional development agencies are entities with which direct contact can be made and can be directly beneficial entities, and that they can, in some way, intermediate without necessarily being the municipalities. That is, it can be an indistinct call: municipalities, joint ventures and development agencies that include these local entities. In 2012, to which this resolution also refers, because it speaks of the fact that the regional plans have to be formulated according to that one, or that, if they are projects of that diagnosis that are new, they have to count on the approval of the pact that was made at that time... Well, there hasn't been any help in updating those projects. I mean, when local entities want to... From 2012 to 2015 there is time – times, moreover, change that it is barbarity – and if we need to update those projects, there has been no call for them to be updated, logically, by providing them also budgetaryly. And, like these, there are some other complaints that it would be good if they could be ventilated. But, finally, perhaps at another time, in another body in this House and in more detail. In any case, I want to say that yes, we have signed that transaction with total conviction. And to say that we also understand and regret that Euskal Herria Bildu, who connects with it, cannot subscribe to it for these kinds of aesthetic issues. We are not ashamed to enter into agreements with you and we hope that in the future we will be able to do so without limitation of any kind. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u54	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u55	Thank you, ma'am. And good morning to all. He published the resolution that regulates the scholarships of the local employment at the 31st of March. Compared to what's happened last year, few differences, actually. They're keeping three lines. The first, in order to raise local institutions, the second, to contract corporations, and the third to raise a little more money for the two earlier lines in earlier countries with very high employment rates. These are the initiatives that will help with money this year. To do that, 20 million euros: To develop 15 million first and second lines, and to develop 5 million into a third, that is, to divide them among the nations with high wages of unemployment. Different entities, to demand according to their regional plans, are due for a month. It's over now, the deadline's closed. And now it is the decision of this calling that is required through this other legal proposition. The principal characteristics of these scholarships are more or less these: In the first row, three and six months are allowed to hire. Most of the councils don't have much chance to keep up with these contracts to continue. Even at the second line, where the companies are used to hire workers, three and six months' contracts are substantiated, but at most one thousand euros are provided for each company for each work and every month and never for the sum of expenses. It is, therefore, especially in these departments to pay the workers according to their wishes, not without the agreements of the country, or of the sector, and without a compact of the company which improves the conditions of their work. These are scholarships that can be requested in short term. One month, for instance. Although bound to the plans of the region, these regional plans have not been designed in many cases by the opinion of all the socimal agents in the region, and they do not consider the necessity or properties of the region. These are all the privations we see from the EH Union in the presence of the resolution which regulates these scholarships. The employment, which begins with the public money, must be an employment of quality, but contractions between three to six months are being fostered. These are temporary contracts. It should be at least four years' open calls, not a month's call, because local development agencies can't properly organize the plans of their region. And following this idea, our third criterion: that the plans of the region's plans are plans for the environment's environment's socionomical environmental environmental environmental environmental environmental environmental environmental environmental environmental environmental environmental We know that there are some who do so, but we also know that they have not been so in many regions, so those regional plans are the plans that stop short-legged. If local development agencies are engines or pushers, they must be plans designed together with the rest of the operating agencies. In order to ensure that, connected with what has been said, a social employment is produced by us, we believe that the workers are worthy of a decent condition of work, and that the terms of the labor agreements of the smallest sphere of activity must be applied. Nevertheless, if the manufacturing center had any compact or compact, which improves the conditions of the work, to apply it to it. These ought to be some of the characters which this resolution ought to receive. With our corrections, we make two specific requests. On the one hand, the aids of local operations may be founded on the needs and properties of valleys or region, and be organized in order to face the disturbances, together with all local sociational operations. This means that what's done now is not enough for a high-rate country to give 5 million more. In the opinion of EH Collectors, we must go further. In the first place, with all the somnomenal plans of the region, which are considered as to demand, or at least with all the so-called causes which they wish to participate, they ought to be plans made. And this has to be nice. In each region, it is different typeology of social operators, so we can't make a classification for all the countries. The suit should be made to fit. They ought, therefore, to consider their participation in the province's plans. At the second point, we literally demand that the minimum conditions of all contractions which will be made to promote employment action, should be imposed on the latest working contract in the least sphere of activity, regardless of which the agreement has lost its force. If, however, there were any compact or compact of any compact in the work-centred Center, there would be a minimum of conditions in which the workmen of the town-centre should be placed, either at the time or till they were renewed, if they were always larger than those in the compact of the sector which is setting up their terms. By this point we wish to guarantee that worthy conditions of work are guaranteed to the workers who are hired through these subsidies. We have known some cases in which the conditions of labor are very inferior, and we believe that the conditions of labour are worthy. Hence we demand to apply the contract of labour in the sector or in the smallest area, and to apply the last contract of labour in its case. In conclusion, the resolution which regulates these subsidies, though not in our liking, is useful to develop local development agency plans in the region. So by explaining that criteria and conditions must be improved, we find it important to get the phone call out as soon as possible. So we'll give the half-way signed critical assent. One and half of the points we asked for is not enough for us, but, as we have said, the authorities of local development ask us to get out of here as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Eubertarians represent the team. Too much of a lady.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. We propose again to discuss the matter as well as the assistance of local enterprises. We've got to be clear that the MUDM is working very hard to get a job done by helping. We've often said that work doesn't come from a decree. Administratives must establish adequate conditions, seeking stability to encourage economic activity, and, in short, to create employment. The best job, the quality. In addition to that, the administrations (Modong, in this case) must work, take measures, and push, so that the work that comes is of quality. The only thing that the occasion seeks to bring this initiative back and forth is to criticize Joy, with the usual arguments: want of ideas, commitment and will, "falta de diligencia" (Mrs. Garrido's words, today). But a lie, often repeated, never becomes true. The opposition is trying, even if it fails to do so, to demonstrate that the Government is not taking the necessary measures that the market needs to generate economic activity and create employment. But the data is also silly and there they are: unemployment has decreased in April by 3,964 people, the biggest decrease in a month of April of the last 10 years. And the same thing that you do not tire of criticizing the government when the unemployment data are not good, you will have to recognize your work and the effects of your work when the unemployment data improve. Since the beginning of the legislature, the Government has marked employment and economic recovery as the first axis of its work. In order to generate the best conditions that facilitate economic recovery and employment generation, different plans have been approved with concrete and evaluable measures, although some seem to find it difficult to assess. Within these aids and plans we have local aid for the promotion of employment, to meet the local employment needs of each territorial area, and especially of those where unemployment rates are highest. The aim is to strengthen the local dimension of employment policy in Euskadi by defining a flexible intervention model, adjusted to the local social and economic reality, bearing in mind that in Euskadi there are areas where unemployment is greatest, so the distribution of the budget between the different regions and municipalities has been carried out according to the unemployment rate of each of them at the time of the call. The job is to help the Euscal Autonomia local settlements with money and field support so that they can make and make jobs possible. These projects and cohere must be the means of appropriating 2013-2016 Program into the field of employment. Alderdi Popularraren oinarrizko ekimenari dagokionez, ez geneukan inolako arazorik lehenengo puntuarekin, ahalik eta arinen egingo batu Lanbidek ebazpena. As soon as possible, but responsibly and following all necessary steps, so that it leads to the creation of quality jobs. Bigarren puntuak eskatzen duena ezinezkoa yes. It is technically and legally impossible to carry out the call, resolution and development in the same exercise, by the very functioning of the Administration. First, the budget (end of December) must be approved, with the corresponding reports of the Office of Economic Control and approval by the Governing Council, for which a minimum of two months is required. Subsequently, approval is required on the Lanbide Board of Directors, one more month for the submission of projects, a period of up to six months for the resolution of the projects by Lanbide, depending on the entity of the projects. Unemployed persons are hired on contracts whose duration, as explained above, ranges from three to six months, with the duration of a majority of six months, and trying to boost longer contracts. The actions taken under the aid must be justified by the contractors within three months of the conclusion of the contracts. Payment is made between one and two months from the previous deadline. The whole process lasts at least 18 months. Therefore, what the People's Party requests at its second point and the Socialist Party at its first, and which has been included in the transactional, is a toast to the sun, impossible to fulfill materially and legally. It's like we're asking the government to match a one-year school year. Therefore, we will not support this request for impossible compliance. With regard to the third point of the original initiative, which has also been taken to the compromise, it is early to talk about budgets, in our view, Mrs Garrido. We will have time to do so when the preliminary draft is presented and the Socialist Party too will have something to say, I suppose. As to the correction of the Socialist Party, we cannot allow the first point, because it is indissoluble, as I have explained. The second point is entirely connected with the first, and thus appears in the decree to be able to pay the next year, if it did not appear so, because it could not be paid. And I want to remind you of something. The 2012 scholarships, taken from the Socialists Party, divided their payments in three terms, and paid none. Por lo dot, señor Ichaso, consejos vendo que para mí no los tengo. As to the correction of the gatherings, we must say that we agree with the first point, and that is how the profession is doing (I speak of the fundamental). In the second point, on the one hand, the sectorial agreements of the work contract are demanded, although they lose their strength. This is against the law, so we won't protect it. Then it has been removed from the middle, and it has not been said that even if they have lost their strength, they must be executed, because this is quite illegal. And we'll like it either less or nothing, but that's the way it is, and we won't accept anything against the law or protect anything. Zure oinarrizko zuzenketaren bigarren zatiari dagokionez, of the matisations. One, when local entities hire directly. In this case, I would like to say that Eudel has expressed his support for applying the Udalhitz conditions, which in many cases are far above the existing conventions. On the other hand, where private companies are the contractors, it is clear that the conditions of contract to be applied are those of their scope and convention. And if it's not done this way, it'll be retrievable. If we accept the fundamental correction of the gathering, as many convictions have worse conditions than the municipal words, that would be their pay. Is that what Collect wants for these workers? And since the middle term combines the fundamental demands of all, and, as has been shown, cannot be accomplished, we shall not even protect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Myst. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u59	President, just to say that I will vote in favour of the compromise that has been signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u60	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u61	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to thank the groups that are going to support this initiative, which we are all opposition groups, except the party that supports the Government. Mrs Arregi said that we were denouncing the lack of diligence, the delay. Yes, of course, we denounce the lack of diligence, the delay, because we see again that this is repeated. We have already denounced this last year, we have presented concrete initiatives. By the way, not just about this issue in the regional employment plans. We also had to present another initiative in relation to the plans that have to do with entrepreneurship, because you did not solve the calls and the money did not reach those people; in this particular case to which I am referring, of entrepreneurship, people who had counted on money to start their businesses. We are talking about very serious things, we are talking about issues that are absolutely priority. I believe that it is good enough for this government to be filled with what is a matter of priority, such as employment and employment promotion issues, and let us then see that the facts do not accompany it, that when the moment of truth comes we will have to see as a 2013 call that comes out long enough, in which the municipalities present their respective plans with a month... That is to say, it was presented on 17 October 2013, the municipalities present their plans for November, and, following an initiative in this Parliament (in this case by this group, but which was supported by the rest of the opposition groups in this House), you hurriedly and ran to adopt the resolution that resolved these calls and made it possible for the money to reach the municipalities. But it was a few months late, as Mr. Aburto acknowledged. What did that lead them to? To extend the programme implementation deadline, which was scheduled for 30 September 2014, to 31 May 2014. As of last year, the programme implementation deadline had to be extended because it did not give time to implement those programmes, with that money enabled in April, when the resolution was published in October. But then 2014 is skipped (2014 for what?)). And the call for this year has now taken it out. They could have taken it out at the end of last year, as they did in 2013, resolved at the beginning of the year and so we go with the calendar year and we go with the implementation of the corresponding budget year, which would be the right thing to do and which was the initial intention of this government when it pulls out the call on October 17, 2013. Therefore, I believe that the road is shown to be walking. And what is clear once again in relation to this matter, and a very significant sign of this Government's action in relation to employment, is that it is filled with the mouth with which it is a priority, but when the concrete facts and the concrete actions come, it does not make them a priority, because, if not, you would withdraw the calls in advance. We are talking about EUR 20 million, we are talking about a very important item so that the municipalities can launch concrete projects, concrete programmes, which are also aimed at people who are in a worse job situation, people who have difficulty entering the labour market. We are not talking about a programme that is insignificant within the Basque Government and within the Department of Employment and Social Policy. Therefore, I believe it is clear that you, when the moment of truth comes, do not show a sincere commitment. They are not demonstrating this, no matter how much Mrs Arregi tells us here again that this is an action and one of the strategic axes of this government. And, therefore, I would ask you to stop deceiving citizens, to get to work, because I believe that Basque citizens, and especially those who are unemployed, have no time to waste. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u62	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u63	Mrs Arregi, I would like to congratulate you on the reduction in unemployment. Besides, beyond the data, I have a clear example in my home: my daughter has three employment contracts that she can simultaneously, they don't reach 40 hours. On that path, we will be able to find more jobs in the future than the working population. These variations, Mrs Arregi, for the good and for the bad we will never blame them as a responsibility to the government. We will be able to take into account how the labour market is acting and how it is thinking, but what we are talking about here is not the results of policies or not, but the commitments, the commitments that the Government has. He says, "It's just that these procedures last 18 months." Well, the year is not 18 months old, but they do not intend, on the basis of a procedure whose ripening time extends beyond the year, to blur an exercise, that of 2014. And answer me: if that call for 2014 did not exist, where will the money that a plan should have been set up in that exercise stop? Savings. And secondly, you say, "No, man. It is that this, precisely because of the time in which these procedures mature, must be attributed to one exercise and the next." So, I ask you again: where will the money or the difference between the 14 million that says the resolution of 25 March that is attributed to 2015 and the 19 that appear in this government document? Where are they going to end up? Savings, too? Is the Government trying to make savings on employment policies? We think it's serious and serious. We do not expect these active employment policies to bear great fruit for themselves and to change the situation, we have said so many times. But the obligation of governments and public authorities is to carry them out in the most efficient way possible and not to evade those obligations on the basis of these issues that "well, this lasts longer, it must be blamed...". That is why I said in the first intervention that there is a remarkable trilerism exercise. Because, in the end, in this period, an exercise that has disappeared, that is, the endowment corresponding to an exercise does not appear anywhere. And here 19 million euros are announced for local employment plans, and it turns out that this resolution speaks of 70% of 20, which is 14, and therefore, with regard to this powerpoint there is a difference of 5 million, which we do not even know where they are going to go. What we are saying is: there can be no economy with active employment policies. All available resources, to them, and in the appropriate period.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u64	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u65	With your permission, I'll take it from the seat. Just to clarify two, three questions to Mrs Arregi. With regard to the first point of our amendment, in which we ask that these plans should always be made taking into account the real needs of each region and that, in order to make these different regional plans, the different socio-economic actors in each region, or who can influence those plans, who can make efficient proposals, have told me that they are already being made. Well, I'm telling you, this isn't the case. We know that in some regions many agents are participating very actively, but in others they are not. That is an unquestionable reality. And with regard to the second point, in my first intervention I have tried to clarify that we know that, above all, those situations in which conditions are being given – especially wages – are precarious in line 2, in the recruitment of companies; at least those that we know most have been given in that line. And that's why we were talking about the subject of conventions. If any of this has happened in the municipalities, of course, as our amendment says, I would like to make it clear that we are trying to implement the reference agreement, either sectorally or, if necessary, if there is any pact or company that improves the conditions. I will read this text: "However, in the event that a convention or pact exists in the centre which performs its functions, it shall lay down the minimum conditions to be applied to the staff of the work centre during its term of office, without prejudice to its renewal, provided that their conditions are higher than those laid down in the sector agreement". Obviously, if the Udalhitz improves, what we ask is that the Udalhitz be applied. And with regard to the first part of this point, that the last convention in force applies, we know that after the last labour reform many agreements have fallen; there are thousands of workers without any reference agreement and there are many companies that are applying the minimum conditions laid down in the Staff Regulations. Is that legal, that a worker collects 645 euros that marks the interprofessional minimum wage? Is it legal? Well, obviously, yes. Do we think that with public money and with the programmes being carried out by the Basque Government we have to subsidize these types of contracts? Obviously not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Mrs. Arreg, the Eubertarian, representing the team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u67	Thank you again, Mr. congressman. The Basque Government is committed to providing support for local actions to promote employment and its commitment to the future of employment. Once again, the opposition, rather than recognizing the steps being taken in this regard, is devoting itself to criticizing the work of the Government, and, more importantly, in our view, with absolute irresponsibility, agrees to urge the Government to fulfil something within a time frame that is legally and materially impossible. I insist on the example I gave in my first speech, because it is very enlightening: it is like asking the government that the school year coincides with a single exercise. I have listed the necessary procedures and deadlines in this regard. What deadlines do you think can be shortened or omitted? The application forms? The bug-remediation ones? The documentation checks? For, in our view, none can or should be cut back, because, if it does, it would harm the final result sought by these aids, it would affect the quality of which they so often reproach the government that is not concerned. We are not prepared for the quality of contracts to be affected by shorter deadlines. His attitude is of absolute irresponsibility. It cannot be called upon to meet the deadlines that cannot be met. In addition, the deadline for the review of documentation is a form of control of public money, another requirement that is made to the Government over and over again and that we, of course, share, but we share in all cases. And in order to be able to do that, it takes time and time. They're talking about there's no call for 2014. The only call that did not exist was for the year 2012, which was published in August 2012 with three payment deadlines (although now Mr Itxaso intends to do it all by one), three deadlines: 40% after Lanbide's resolution, 35% after the first five months and 25% after completion and validation. But it was not done, because you left the government and left it unsolved and without paying one of the amounts. So, what it says about economies, and so on... "The thief is believed to be all of his condition." But that is not our style and so we do not act, Mr. Itxaso. And finally, Mrs. Zulaika I want to tell you how clear it is that Lanbide is... You said in your first speech that one of the lines of this aid is to favour those regions that are degraded and in which the unemployment situation is worse. Therefore, Lanbide is doing that, even though you have now denied it in the second intervention. Lanbide does encourage and help those regions that are in a worse situation. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote for the Middle Amendment that the Basque Groups and the Basque Socialists have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 48; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u69	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposition as a group of the laws of Misto-UPyD, concerning the disclosure or plan of the Act of Life. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Misstto-Mr. Maniro, representative of theUPyD team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u70	Thank you, President. Last April 1st the lehendakari appeared together with the Secretary of Peace and Co-existence, Jonan Fernandez, to take stock of the Hitzeman program and to announce that the first experience to help the reintegration of ETA prisoners would be launched after the municipal and outlaw elections. And all this despite the fact that the Basque Government lacks competence in the area of prison policy. The aim of this parliamentary initiative is to prevent the occurrence of any kind of impunity from which ETA prisoners can benefit and to strictly comply with the current law, including all the requirements that the law establishes for ETA prisoners to have access to prison benefits, which the Basque Government and certain political parties seek to obviate and forget. We do not forget the current legality and we do not forget one of the requirements perfectly established in the law for prisoners of ETA to have access to prison benefits. Therefore, with our proposal, what we were proposing was the following. Three points. The first is that this Parliament should remind the Basque Government that competition in prison policy is the responsibility of the Spanish Government. The second point, that this Parliament rejects the Basque Government's Hitzeman programme, as well as the Peace and Co-existence Plan itself, where that programme is included, because it is not useful tools for achieving and advancing coexistence in Euskadi, the justice that the victims of terrorism deserve and the final defeat of ETA. Finally, we proposed to urge the Government of Spain, in the development and implementation of the prison policy that applies to prisoners convicted of terrorism and in order to prevent any kind of impunity or injustice, to strictly and rigorously apply the Penal Code, the General Prison Law and the Prison Rules, so that it is necessary to obtain any kind of prison benefit to the prisoner's compliance with all the legally established requirements and without any exception: definitive disconnection of the terrorist gang, request for forgiveness of his victims, assumption of civil liability arising from the actions for which he was convicted, and fruitful and accredited collaboration with the authorities and the justice system to resolve or assist in resolving the crimes committed by ETA pending resolution. Especially important is this latter requirement, usually, by the way, not met. Rigorous compliance with this requirement would help resolve the more than 300 crimes committed by ETA pending resolution. Moreover, his compliance by the prisoner would demonstrate that he is indeed repentant and therefore in a position to reintegrate into society. It is well established that many of the ETA prisoners who have been benefiting from prison benefits have not cooperated, because they did not want to, with the Justice and yet have been able to enjoy those benefits. Therefore, the law has been violated, there has been a fraud of law. In the face of ETA's and ETA's world's claim to try to achieve impunity for its prisoners, we advocate this initiative to defend the victims of terrorism and justice, which implies strict compliance with the current legality without traps of any kind, that is, rigorous and strictly, which would help to clarify the crimes committed by ETA pending resolution. Let's quickly review the current legality. The greatest prison benefit provided for in the law is conditional release, which is granted by judges and allows for non-return to prison. The requirements for parole are to be classified as a third degree in prison, to have served three quarters of the sentence and to have shown good conduct and a favourable prognosis of social reintegration. According to the Criminal Code, there is a favourable prognosis of social reintegration when the convicted person shows unequivocal signs of having abandoned the purpose of terrorist activity and has actively collaborated with the authorities in the identification, capture and prosecution of those responsible for terrorist offences. If they refuse to cooperate with the judiciary, they are not reinstated or want to be reinstated, and they would also fail to meet one of the requirements for access to such prison benefits. The previous step towards parole is the third degree of imprisonment. Article 72.6 of the General Penitentiary Act is also clear: "The classification or progression to the third degree of persons convicted of terrorist offences or committed within criminal organizations shall require, in addition to the requirements of the Criminal Code and the satisfaction of civil liability with their present and future income and assets, to show unequivocal signs of having abandoned terrorist purposes and means, and also to have actively cooperated with the authorities". Therefore, the law is clear. And this Basque government is either trying to skip the current law, or to change it. And we believe that the law is as good as it is and that, in any case, what must be done is more rigorously enforced. The Hitzeman program was presented in October 2014, a road map, said, that seeks to deepen the legal and constitutional path of resocialization of prisoners to give them shelter or employment after their release from prison. It requires a self-critical reflection of the unjust damage caused and, according to the lehendakari, comes to cover the gaps and immobilization that the Basque Government sees in the State's policy regarding ETA prisoners. It is a programme to support legal processes of resocialization of prisoners. This pilot plan, which we reject, also has at least two obvious difficulties. The exclusive powers in prison matters are vested in the Government of Spain. But it is also that the Basque Government has not yet achieved the commitment of any inmate to join Hitzeman. According to Jonan Fernandez, there has been a consultation phase, it has been well received, but since there has been no registration phase, there are no registered persons. And at this point it should be remembered that the Government, when it presented this programme, gave itself a five-month period to reach agreement with the rest of the political parties. In this matter, as in so many others, there has not been any kind of dialogue or consensus either. Therefore, not only has he not agreed to it as he promised, but it has also been a failure. It has only served to delegitimize existing legality, to call into question existing legality. Mr. Jonan Fernandez was talking about exploring the potential that legality offers when he introduced this program. We think that, rather than exploring the potential that legality offers, what needs to be done is to fulfill it. With regard to the Zuzen Bidean programme, 20 measures relating to the prison policy applied to prisoners of ETA are included. There are, it is said, 20 proposals to recompose after the end of ETA the state of normality in penal and prison law and to contribute to the social and political normalization of coexistence. We also reject this programme. A programme that includes 10 proposals for changes in prison policy without legal change and 10 other proposals for legal change. We reject the fundamentals of what is proposed in that programme. What is proposed in that program? Among other measures: the abolition of the crime of terrorism without belonging to the armed gang, the abolition of the crime of apologia of terrorism, the release of those convicted of activities, it is said, previously illegalized and now normalized (i.e., what is being defended is basically the impunity of some prisoners), the repeal of Organic Law 7/2003, measures of full enforcement of sentences, and the abolition of certain requirements for access to prison benefits, among others. We also reject all these purposes, all of them in favour of ETA prisoners. At the same appearance, the lehendakari and Jonan Fernandez presented the Zuzendu plan, an additional measure to the 18 initiatives of the Basque Government's Peace and Co-existence Plan. A document, it is said, to propitiate self-criticism as a catalyst in the face of the paralysis in which the end of terrorism is said to be taking place. Again a program, again a plan to favor the prisoners of ETA, which we also strongly reject. And so, with this initiative, what we were proposing is for this Parliament to ask the government to withdraw all this: the current Peace and Co-existence Plan, the Zuzen Bidean programme, the Hitzeman programme and the Zuzendu plan. That you withdraw all that and seek consensus with democratic political parties to focus on the important: the defence of the existing legality, the demand for ETA to dissolve as soon as possible and deliver weapons, the delegitimization of terrorism, the justice of the victims of terrorism, the defence of these victims of terrorism and that – and certainly most importantly – this government seek consensus, that it seek agreement with the parliamentary political groups of this Parliament, with the democratic political groups. This is also what the Basque Government should do in this matter. One thing is that ETA prisoners demand amnesty or preferential treatment in order to bypass the current legality and another very different thing is that democratic political parties are going to allow it. One thing is that the Basque Government of the PNV uses this matter to obtain votes between the parish of Abertzale and another that the democratic parties will remain silent. We do not want to remain silent and we want to continue to denounce the aims of this Basque Government, which in many respects is closer to ETA prisoners than to the victims of terrorism. Therefore, what should be done, according to the compromise we have signed, is to reformulate that Peace and Co-existence Plan, to defend justice, to avoid any kind of impunity, to delegitimize ETA, to defend the victims of terrorism and to seek agreement with democratic political parties. We have signed a transaction with the People's Party and the Socialist Group, which reflects what we consider most important: to see the failure of the Peace and Co-existence Plan, to urge the Government to reformulate its Peace and Co-existence Plan on the basis of broad consensus, and, finally, to urge the Government of Spain to promote a prison policy that facilitates reintegration, but that is done through the mechanisms set out in the law, to comply with the current law. And here we also include the demand that the Government of Spain comply with all the requirements set out in the current law so that prisoners of ETA can access prison benefits. Let there be no fraud of the law, let there be no breach of the law. In short, that justice should be defended, that there could be no impunity of any kind. We therefore call on the Basque Government to focus on the important issue, to abandon its proposals which seek only to satisfy the abertzale left, to dialogue and to seek agreement with the democratic political parties, to demand that ETA be definitively and unconditionally dissolved, to demand that prisoners accept the current legality and ultimately defend the victims, and, of course, that ETA's terrorism be delegitimized. This is what we basically advocate in this initiative and in the compromise that we have finally signed. I only have to thank the Socialist Group and the Group of the Party of European Socialists for signing this compromise, which I believe reflects the fundamentals of what the three groups want to defend here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u71	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, Mr. Ares has the word that the Basque Socialist represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u72	Thank you, Madam President. I shall begin by regretting the absence of the Government. It is incomprehensible that in a debate in which we are discussing one of its star plans, one of the pillars of the Government's action, they are not present. It is the demonstration that, as much as dialogue is predicted, opposition groups are not even heard. This is the demonstration of the talent and behaviour of the Government, which we Socialists sincerely regret. On many occasions, ladies and gentlemen, we have said, and I repeat it today, that the Socialists will never oppose these issues to the Government. Another thing is that on the initiative of the Government or on the initiative of another parliamentary group, as it is in this case, we have to speak and we will do so. We will do so clearly and forcefully, so that no one interprets or confuses responsibility and prudence with consent or support for policies and plans that we do not share. We continue to believe that the best policy of memory, coexistence and victims is that which is done from the highest consensus, which is based on basic ethical and democratic principles. And today, unfortunately, in politics of memory, coexistence and victims we have to say that there are fewer consensuses than yesterday. The mistrust and alienation of the victims of terrorism from the Government is a fact. The institutional relationship and dialogue with the central Government is null and void. The Nanclares route, which was a successful path for the reintegration of prisoners convicted of terrorism, has been abandoned. And the Government, rather than opting for a plan that would strengthen and develop the agreements that it took so much to weave in the past legislature on memory, coexistence and victims, has chosen the opposite. It has chosen to approve a plan without accepting any substantive suggestions from the opposition groups, it has opted for a plan in which it has no agreement, I insist, neither with the Government of Spain nor with the victims. A poorly focused, confused plan, with errors in principles and terminology that cannot be shared. I will simply cite a few examples. A plan that speaks of deaths rather than murders, that speaks of prisoners rather than of prisoners of terrorism, a plan that clearly reduces the demands on ETA and its environment and on ETA prisoners, a plan that equates victims. Finally, a wish and I cannot be full of initiatives, but which are toasts to the sun that do not reach anywhere, beyond ordering a lot of studies and reports with significant costs for the public arks. And all this, as we have said on other occasions, with the intention of making it easier for the left to open the way for it to be able to agree with the Government. It was a bad start to develop this plan and the successive plans that develop it. They wished for their failure, as it has been. For this reason, as much as the government strives – and strives hard – to make a positive balance, as much as it strives to confuse hyperactivity with results, a brief analysis of the plan clearly demonstrates its failure. I told the lehendakari the other day. Let's see. The priority objective of the plan was to achieve the disarmament of ETA and its eventual disappearance. Did it do any good? Has the plan contributed to anything? Have you achieved any goals? No, no, The second major objective of the plan was to achieve what the Government called "microagreements" among the four major families or sensitivities of the country. Did you get any? No, and it's not possible to get them. There is not going to be a chance to get them because some of us are not willing to lower basic ethical and democratic principles, the ethical ground, to achieve those agreements. Nor can agreements be reached that contribute to memorylessness or facilitate the diluting of the responsibilities of those who have supported for so many years or justified terrorism. Ladies and gentlemen, after a year of government plotting with EH Bildu, it is proving that EH Bildu is not in a position to recognize the damage caused by the protection or justification of terrorism. And, of course, they are not willing to assume that killing, supporting terrorism, supporting those who committed attacks had, has, and will never have, justification. Once again it is demonstrated what was already demonstrated in the past, that EH Bildu, that the left abertzale, that ETA, that the prisoners of ETA only move from the demand and from the firmness. Nor has anything progress been made in prison policy, beyond the fact that the text reduced demands on prisoners. And, in any case, as we said at the time, we do not share the Hitzeman program, because it was confusing, it gave rise to confusion situations that cannot be accepted. It was not demanding with the world of ETA and its surroundings. It was not appropriate to talk about resocialization rather than about reintegration, no matter how much we would like to facilitate the way prisoners want to go with soft terms. We also said that we didn't even like his name, because in Spanish it is called "give the word". He suggests that recipients have no chance to decide, they have no word. They can decide, if they want, their future clearly; the problem is that they do not. And, of course, we already said that they were initiatives of voluntarism, because when I did not have the Basque Government who is responsible for prison policies today, it was simply a toast to the sun. And we also said at the time that ETA prisoners, their relatives, their political environment would not accept this plan despite the reduction in demands, and it was clearly confirmed: the Spokesman of Sortu said it was a toast to the sun. In this, too, the Government's policies have failed. Today, too, there is less consensus in memory politics than there was in the last legislature. And, of course, also the Government's clamorous failure in its policies concerning other victims, those who are not covered by the Victims of Terrorism Act, because they have undertaken to make a decree without seeking consensus with the central Government and which has subsequently been clearly rejected by the judiciary. In short, one of the fundamental pillars of government policy has been a glaring failure. And that is why the Socialists have tabled an amendment not to waste time, to try to make the Government understand that it has to make self-criticism and reformulate the plan of coexistence, its plan of peace and coexistence. An amendment that, as Mr Maneiro has already said, has become a compromise amendment with UPyD and the PP – I would also like to thank you for your generosity and willingness to dialogue – which has the following very clear objectives. First, we ask the Government to reformulate the plan to strengthen and expand the consensus we reached in the last legislature. A plan aimed not at the disarmament of ETA, but at its unconditional disappearance, and that is clearly stated in the content of the plan. A plan that promotes a policy of memory, truth and justice where what happened in this country during so many years of terrorism is clearly and truthfully collected. Also a plan that continues to promote the recognition and care of victims, and, of course, that with historical rigour, with professional rigour, in accordance with the law, also continues to take care of the so-called other victims. A plan that makes a prison policy that allows and helps the social reintegration of prisoners who meet the requirements set out in our legislation. A plan that bets to consolidate coexistence, but based on strong and shared ethical and democratic values, that makes it clear that violence never had, has or will have justification. Ladies and gentlemen, as you can see, I have not spoken of peace. Because, as much as some people are trying to talk about peace, peace and freedom is what we have already conquered and what we enjoy today. That is why I have spoken of memory, victims and coexistence, so that we can take advantage of what remains of the legislature, so that it is not a lost legislature in these matters. We ask the Basque Government to make self-criticism, to acknowledge the failure of its proposals and its plan, to reformulate the plan of coexistence on the axes I have said, which will allow us to establish coexistence, which will allow them to make a decent society, to build their future by respecting the rules of play and respecting the plurality of this society. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ares. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u74	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I won't go too far. Mr Maneiro and Mr Ares have essentially explained the initiative, the compromise amendment and the purpose of it. I would have to say that the Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence is not doing things right, and in that regard, we share the approaches that the proponent of the initiative has made and then those that we have reflected in the transaction. And it can be seen that the Peace and Coexistence Plan is no way to unite. It is a plan made to give progressive satisfaction to the radical world, that is the key to the plan. We have already said this in committee to Mr Fernández and also in full control of Mr Lehendakari Urkullu. In the affairs of the Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence, the Basque Government, and especially Mr Fernández, are putting on the orange handkerchief, unfortunately. The programme Hitzeman and the rest of the performances (Zuzen Bidean...), have already explained... It can never be useful under the premises of the Basque Government and its secretariat. This programme moves outside the legal system and beyond competition, and that is a key issue on issues as complex and sensitive as this. Just over two years ago, the lehendakari announced the appointment of Jonan Fernandez as secretary general of one of the areas that Urkullu himself wanted to control from the Presidency: peace and coexistence. How close are those two years, but how much time for such a democratic retreat, for such a surrender to radicalism and for such distortion! Two of the last expressions of the setback have been in those meetings that the secretary has held with an ETA leader in prison and also with the ETA family association, to which the president of the Basque Government had the pleasure of joining. They are two examples, but they define a little bit the framework for action of the secretariat and the Government. These singular signs of closeness to the world of radicality confirm the strategic line in which Urkullu and Fernández have conceived an action based on moral equidistance, distortionary neolinguism and criticism of the central government. A retreat of the two long years of activity of a secretariat that has served to turn its back on the victims and to lower the demand of the Democrats for the world of Bildu and Sortu. The framework of actions has served from the minute one to equalize and mix violence. It has been impossible for the Basque Government to analyse and isolate ETA violence and terrorism. Efforts have been made to continue to enshrine the theory of conflict as active and passive. It is a matter of concluding that Euskadi has been a struggling society and that ETA is a part of that conflict. That lie is very tracer, especially by making a good face. An obsession is sick to confront the central government. That is to say, in line with a proforma criticism towards the ETA world and the abertzale left there is a diatribe, sometimes brutal, against the prison policy of Spain, against the action of the Justice, of the state security forces in the fight against the terrorist organization, which has not yet been dissolved. There is no specific action in the Fernandez plan and its developments to build a delegitimizing discourse of ETA, and, in a straight line, in that absence of speech of the government party has found in a multitude of parliamentary proposals a formula to agree with Bildu and move away from non-nationalist groups and basic demands. Is that looking for the deal? Is that seeking consensus? The poorly-called talk of peace and coexistence or unity of action on issues that elude the demand of the ETA world mark a PNV-Bildu agenda rather than express and real. They want to load the big deals. We are not going to talk about what we think, within the framework of this action, of the Constitution, of the Statute; even some basic consensuses, such as the Amnesty Act of 1977, are called into question in the proceedings. In these keys are also the celebrations, the commemorations. And the Basque Government makes a totum revolution of violence, refuses to celebrate a day of tribute to the victims of terrorism, betting on abstract expressions that dilute the face and eyes of those who have suffered the most in the last years of age-old brutality in Euskadi. As one Lehendakari adviser recalled: "The Urkullu government needs to make a gesture with the victims." And that was over a year ago. We're still waiting. Mr Fernandez has not taken a step to get Bildu or Sortu to condemn ETA terrorism, its crimes, and demand its dissolution. He hasn't, and that's a reality. And yet it demands other microagreements to continue yielding to the violent. Fernandez, the secretary of peace and coexistence, has proved himself absolutely incapable of staging an area of public discomfort for the abertzale left, and that is a fact. We have signed a compromise amendment with the proposer and the Socialist Group, to which we are grateful for the provision. I think we need to look at that agreement, it's a requirement. We will hear the speeches of the non-amendants, but, in any case, I believe that here there is a strong and tremendous criticism of the actions of Mr Urkullu, of the lehendakari, of the actions of Mr Fernández, of the Secretary of Peace and Co-existence, in relation to that search for agreements. The compromise amendment is clear – both Mr Maneiro and Mr Ares have already explained this – in relation to finding this failure. We see that from the parliamentary groups that we were called upon to participate in the search for agreements or consensus on these matters, but we have been frustrated by any intention or possibility. The Government is urged in this amendment to a number of outstanding issues, as the previous spokespersons have explained, and in this regard, what is called for is compliance with the law. We understand that this is being done by the Government of Spain, but in any case, if we talk about resocialization, about the reintegration of prisoners, it is clear that the law must be respected at all extremes. The law is very clear, Mr Maneiro has explained it very well too. We must move away from violence, we must recognize the damage caused and we must meet all the requirements of the law in relation to it. Clearer, water. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u75	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing to the uncorrected groups the representative of the EH Collectors. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. The other day Mr. Maniro brought us another proposal, which, according to the contrary of the plan on the road, he afterwards retired. Now he goes on again, promising himself to be on his own business, and thence he extends the view to the whole plan of peace and co-operation. We don't agree with this plan, not with the Word Program, in a known position. But I don't think that's the real purpose of this initiative today. An excuse has been sought to recapitulate the exceptions which ought to be applied to the collective euphorum of political prisoners at the present day to the collective law of the euphescals, to applaud again those doctrines which reduce the freedom of prisoners to the right of the prisoners, to show a demonstration of revenge, to hinder a new time; and in this point, when a majority of society demands steps and movements, the power of making no step at all. We believe that the initiative that UPyD is bringing today is unique and exclusively to mark the ground, to show itself the most irresponsible, the most vengeful, the most opposed to taking positive steps, knowing that after him, after that stele, the PP and the Socialist Party will come, the stele in which they cannot stay behind. Again, there is support for the imposition, the coercion of prisoners and their social circle. I don't know if as a reflection of that liberticide DNA or, just as today is already being a recurring argument, because that is your electoral presentation card. Whether one is the reason or the other, the fact is that this unique and exclusively initiative is brought to remind us of the requirements of Law 7/2003 for the full and effective enforcement of sentences. A law that is based on the denunciation, a law that is based on humiliation, a law that is based on the repentance of the prisoner, flags that today again UPyD, PP and PSE wave prepotents in this transactional amendment. A special, arbitrary, abusive law, which can only be understood in its context, in that context of 2003, when it was drafted at the height of the Aznar era, in full anti-terrorist drunkenness. That comprehensive and sustained strategy of widespread violation of civil rights, political rights, procedural rights, human rights. Campaign that now strives to stay firm in its course, because they have no other project for this people, because they have no other recipe that deserves to be called peace, political normalization or coexistence. This exceptional policy that applies to Basque prisoners involves the dismantling of the rule of law to give way to the law of the State, the law that the State improvises in view of its priorities, interests and reason. That right that goes from the force of reason to the reason of force, with which the State does nothing but equip itself with more tools, more discretion, more ammunition, more caliber. An obsession that has deliberately roamed with countless rights; in this case, from a specific recipient: the Basque political prisoner group (EPPK). Rights such as equality, dignity, legality or legal certainty, access to or exercise of personal freedom are now, after this law, a wet role. A legality, true, legal, but equally illegitimate, that violates the prisoner's rights to private and family life, his right to physical integrity, to medical care, to communication, to study, his right to access to liberty. A minority in this Parliament wants to boast of this arbitrariness and that is precisely why its initiative will fall. Not that we agree with the planet of peace and fellowship. We think that it is nearer to those who most raise their voice against this plan than to us. We're against the plan for what he says, we're against the plan because he doesn't say it, and we're against the plan, and we're also against the plan, because of the lack of will that his manager has shown to develop it. As far as I'm concerned, it's known we don't agree with that program either. It is well known that he acknowledges this exceptional legislation of criticism, because he places his columns upon it. Because they represent it as a voluntary plan, but especially a voluntary one for fun, because it's not the right to handle it. True, because these powers have not been burnt, they must be pressed there, and I think that to acquire the confession of this prison hand, we must press it there. because the promise, as he supposed by his author, will have no effect in a short time, but in a long time. How many years is that possible? Five? Ten? Fifteen? Is that the future that is drawn to us? Anyway, that's not the program to hire with our team. Prisoners make important expressions that may contain effects that have not yet been explored. Let the secretary peace and co-operate with the prisoners, whose word they have is their own, because they are their subject; the political, not the object of the most exceptional subjects, as you think. We don't agree, as we said, with the peace plan and not with the promises. But not from a destructive disposition, as the proprieties plan it, but from a constructive position. Because we work in peace and fellowship, because we believe in it, and because we do not agree with destructive attitudes such as we are today considering peace and fellowship. That's why we won't agree with what we proposed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u77	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians have their word, Mr. Iturate, representing the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u78	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. In fact, I had thought of talking from place to place, but I came here because of the respect due to the Chamber, not because we are prepared to follow Mr. Maneiro's usual manners. And, in fact, I could finish my interference very quickly. We agree with the plan of peace and fellowship. It is therefore impossible that we should assent to the proposal which has been agreed with PP and PSOE. And we agree on account of the content and agree to produce it, for the procedure continued to resume. It has been a number of doubts, not only with political parties, but with society, with social agents, with several associations working in the circle of peace and social life, because it is due to a vast process of discussion. And because he's doing a specific tracking of the plan, because he's evaluated every six months, and the result of this evaluation confirms that the plan is going well. Therefore, we are not going to vote for the withdrawal of the plan. We have not tabled an amendment because we are not prepared to continue playing the game with Mr Maneiro. It has all the legitimacy of the world to present the initiatives it deems appropriate, but they are its own, responding to its political strategy, its political obsessions, most of them based on false assertions, false accusations, prejudices. For example, the Basque Nationalist Party or the Basque Government is closer to ETA prisoners or victims than victims, etc., etc. And since they are statements that do not resist the slightest contrast, the slightest analysis, we will not waste time every time Mr Maneiro wants to bring them to this House, put ourselves to contrast them with our amendments to the whole. Our position is clear. It is based on the peace and coexistence accords of the previous legislature, and the Basque Government's Peace and Co-existence Plan is built on this building. Therefore, we will not vote for the withdrawal of the plan, for responsibility for the construction of peace and coexistence of this country, for commitment to Basque society, to the actors, to the entities working for peace and coexistence of this country; for the degree of compliance of the plan, because it progresses, progresses adequately. The 18 initiatives committed are under way, with a satisfactory degree of compliance, except, of course, the Central Government's Memorial Centre for Victims of Terrorism. And I think a little more we should focus on this. With regard to the amendments that had been tabled, which were then merged into one, to the first part of the amendment by the People's Party, I have already said that we are not going to vote for the withdrawal of the plan. And with respect to compliance with legality, it is what the plan repeats, the plan and all the documents of development of it (Hitzeman, Zuzen Bidean...). All of them are based on scrupulous compliance with the law. And on that basis they establish active policies, to unlock a situation that becomes unsustainable, untenable for the majority of society, except for those people who seem to be living in a bubble in this Parliament and who are turning our backs on what society demands of us. The Basque Government has not put on any handkerchief, orange or other colour, Mr Barrio. Here the only one who has put on, not a handkerchief, a bandage in the eyes and ropes in the hands, a plug in the ears and has paralysed all his action on this issue is the People's Party and Mr Rajoy's Government, which is absolutely in a position without consensus – that is without consensus – with no one and which does not respond to any of the calls. Especially painful is the Socialist Party's amendment, not so much for the amendment, but for Mr Ares' speech in this rostrum. Basically, your amendment is a solemn contradiction – because it is soft – a solemn contradiction. They call for the reformulation of the Peace and Co-existence Plan. I don't know if I should understand reformulation as a withdrawal from the plan or as an ongoing evaluation of it, because if that is the case, it is something that the plan itself collects and is being done, and semi-annually. And not only is the plan evaluated: it presents the assessment, black on white, in writing, and is available not only to Parliament, but to society as a whole for its contrast. In addition, the second part calls for reformulation on five axes. The truth is that, when I saw the amendment, I was absolutely surprised, because the five axes are exactly the axes on which the Peace and Co-existence Plan is based, exactly on those axes, beyond small anecdotes that seek to justify a change in the position of the Socialist Party in all this. To talk about that the plan is not conclusive because it talks about people in prison at some point and not about terrorists in prison, because it talks about ETA prisoners, for example, because it uses resocialization instead of reintegration... Let's see. Do we or do we not agree with the diagnosis of the Peace and Co-existence Plan, which begins by expressly stating that it belongs to and assumes as its own the ethical soil agreed by the Basque Parliament, agreed by Parliament in the previous parliamentary term? On the five axes referred to by the Socialist Party, the requirement of dissolution of ETA is the first explicit objective of the plan; disappearance or dissolution, the two terms. The policy of memory of the peace plan seeks inclusion and is based on the clarification of the truth, as requested by the Socialist Party in the second point. The plan defends a policy of truth, justice and reparation for all victims, expressly opposing any compensation game in the plan. And not only in the plan: in all interventions, both the Secretary-General of Peace and Coexistence and the Lehendakari, in all, reference is made to not entering into games of compensation or justification of any of the violence. The Hitzeman program. You are talking about favoring the legal processes of reinsertion of prisoners. The Hitzeman program is precisely for that which you ask for on that fourth axis. And the policy of coexistence of the Basque Government and the Peace and Co-existence Plan is based on a critical memory of terrorism and violence and injustice committed against the victims, expressly rejecting any form of justification or legitimization of the use of violence. It is pure ethical soil, it is pure conclusions of the previous Parliament's presentation. Indeed, times are not conducive to consensus, it seems to be. By the way, you're also on that list of failures... You have already stopped because you are talking about the failure of memory policies. And it is said by those who have the incoherence to sign an amendment of the whole that speaks of memory with the People's Party, with the same People's Party that votes against its fundamental proposal in this legislature in the matter of memory, which is the Law on the Establishment of the Institute of Memory and Coexistence. Do you want to explain to me, when you sign this amendment today with the People's Party, what memory you mean? To which does Mr Barrio defend?, to which the People's Party defended in the debates for the adoption of the Law of the Institute of Memory and Coexistence or to which you defend and which we defended in the bill and in the approved law? Obviously, consensus must be sought, but two do not consent if one does not want to. And, unfortunately, it is true, here all of you, from EH Bildu to UPyD, have said that you do not agree with the Basque Government's Peace and Co-existence Plan, but that, unfortunately, you justify it exactly on the contrary. Some say that it gives rise to emergency legislation and that it subjugates ETA prisoners. And the others on exactly the contrary: because it is a plan that is only looking at prisoners, to facilitate the way for prisoners, to remove demands on prisoners. And, since neither of the two arguments used is true, neither of them responds to the truth, because there is no project in this House that has a greater consensus, because reaching a consensus to say "I am against that" is the simplest thing in the world. But what about the next step? About what we are about to maintain a consensus? We, around the agreements adopted and signed by this party in all these years with you, which are materialized in the conclusions of the peace and coexistence presentation of the previous legislature, and in this legislature, basically, in the legislative development of the Institute of Memory. Two do not agree if one wants, and it is very difficult to agree with the one who sticks a door to the parliamentary instrument created for dialogue. And it is impossible to agree if there is no prior dialogue. And the problem is not that you refuse to agree with EH Bildu, that you agree many things; the problem is that you refuse to dialogue with anyone, because you do not sit on the table. That is the contradiction that you must justify. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u79	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing on the answering shift, Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u80	Thank you, President. Thankfully, Mr Iturrate, that he was not going to intervene or that he was going to intervene briefly, and that he did not intend to play the game to a server, because he has finally consumed his time and even gone further. Of course, I didn't come here to play any games, I didn't come here to defend any kind of obsession and I didn't come here to defend the same mantras as ever. I have come to defend the principles that UPyD has been defending over the past few years. And, by the way, we have managed to agree on a compromise with the People's Group and the Socialist Group. And that's already something, that's enough. Beyond the differentiation of certain issues, as has been seen in this Parliament in recent months, and specifically in relation to this issue, we have certainly been able to agree on a compromise. And what is again evident is that the Basque Nationalist Party is unable to dialogue and agree anything with any other parliamentary group. And it gives the feeling that you are blind and deaf, you do not realize that there is a majority in this Parliament that is telling you that you do not agree with these initiatives that you are pushing. And, in any case, what I think you should do is to approach the democratic political parties in this House, especially those political parties that have suffered the terrorist actions of ETA for many years. But you are unable to give in at all, and you remain blind and deaf. The three groups are strongly saying that we are against the current Peace and Co-existence Plan, that we are against the Hitzeman programme, that we are against the Zuzen Bidean programme and that we are against the Zuzendu plan. This is what we are saying to the democratic political groups with whom you should at least try to agree on such a sensitive issue as this. But, given their intervention, the truth is that they prefer to remain in their absolute solitude. The truth is that, after two years of legislature and after the presentation of all the plans, it can be shown, on the one hand, that nothing has been achieved in relation to the world of ETA (they are still in line) and that the distance between the Basque Government or the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party, the Socialist Party of Euskadi and UPyD has widened over the last few months. That's the reality. You will therefore have done something wrong, because you have not even dialogued with these political groups. You have gone to certain prisons to talk to certain ETA prisoners, but yet you are incapable of dialogue, and let us not say agree, with the democratic political groups in this House on such an essential issue as this. Therefore, absolute failure with regard to peace and coexistence, which, in our view, is nothing but a defence in any case of the rule of law and of the law in force. Weakness and absolute lack of consensus. The Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence obviates the current legality. As much as Mr Iturrate says that in all these plans what is intended is to respect the existing legality, it is absolutely false. It is intended to violate, violate or change the existing law, but it is obvious what the current law says, and in particular what we have proposed here for several years on several occasions, which refers to the fulfilment of the perfectly established requirements for access to prison benefits. You, therefore, have tried to violate the existing lawfulness, you have ignored the existing lawfulness, and you have also made it clear that you do not have competence in prison policy. And that is why I say, and I repeat, that you have been closer to ETA prisoners than to the victims of terrorism. And, of course and in any case, you have been closer to EH Bildu than to the democratic political groups in this House. And, listening to your speech, it seems that this is going to continue like this, and it is sad that in a matter like this you still prefer to be alone. How, then, is the Government's action summed up all this time? Palabreria, neolinguage, equalization of victims, meetings with prisoners or relatives of prisoners, neglect of victims and absolute refusal to consent to anything either with the Socialist Party or with the People's Party, and let's not say with UPyD anymore. Mr Arzuaga has made one point: we have put forward this initiative to remember what the law says, indeed. That was our fundamental pretension, to remind all groups and governments what exactly the law says. And the law, which seems fair to us, has to be enforced. Strictly comply so that there is no impunity of any kind. Because it has also been shown over time that the more and better the law has been complied with, the better we have achieved the objectives of defending democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u81	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u82	I would only like to thank the Socialist Group and the People's Group for signing this compromise. Let us hope that the Basque Government will react positively and start discussions with the groups in this House who are clearly telling you that it does not share either the peace plan or all the other programmes, or its actions in relation to the search for the ultimate defence of democracy in the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u83	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Ares, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a clarifying debate and it is clear that, in addition to the fact that the Basque Government does not listen, because it is not even present in the House, neither does the group supporting it. I'd ask you a little more humility and listen. You say the plan is achieving its goals. Explain to me in your speech which ones later. Because the plan had a main objective, to achieve disarmament and the definitive disappearance of ETA. Have any goals been achieved with the plan? None. The second objective of the plan was to achieve what you called microagreements. Did you get any? Absolutely none. And, I have already told you, it will not be possible to achieve them because some of us are unwilling, like you, to renounce basic ethical and democratic principles. They don't listen. Because if you are so committed to the ethical and democratic ground that we agreed on, why did you not accept the suggestions that, for example, my group made to incorporate into that plan and did not collect any? Don't you realize that everyone else we're telling you isn't? That your plan is made to facilitate – even if you do not – the agreement with those gentlemen? We already told him in his moment, we don't tell him now. Look, incoherence, none. We maintain in the amendment exactly the same as we have always defended, that any plan of the Government must have as its objective not to achieve the disarmament of ETA, as the Government is saying one day and another, but must demand the definitive and unconditional disappearance of ETA, and you, in recent times, do not do so. You'll know why. You know that prison policy has to be based on strict compliance with our legislation and that prisoners have to move away from violence, recognize the harm done, and you in your plans search the dictionary to write with kind words and lower the demands that must be made to ETA prisoners. We continue to argue that there must be a memory of truth and justice, which clearly reflects what has happened in this country, where events and victims are not mixed up, and you know what the behaviour and attitude of the Government and the documents of its Government is. And you know that we have committed ourselves and managed to implement a decree to meet the recognition and reparation of other victims, and you have endeavoured to make a toast to the sun, not negotiate it with the Government of Spain and now the courts have completely rejected it. Another failure. Has there been any progress in cohabitation policy? None. In memory are there more agreements today than yesterday? None. This debate and the vote will reveal one thing, that the Peace and Co-existence Plan only has the agreement of the Basque Nationalist Party. And this should be looked at, because in the last legislature there was an agreement between PNV, PP, UPyD, Socialist Party and some who later joined the abertzale left. Therefore, look at it, please, because you have not managed to get these gentlemen to walk the way to agree with you and you have left all the others who had agreed with you. Please listen, do self-criticism, don't be pushy. Listen to the others, because we are talking about a very serious issue. Very serious, ladies and gentlemen. And that is why we once again extend our hand to the Government, so that, as I said in my first speech, I can recompose the Peace and Co-existence Plan, so that it can do so based on the agreements that we reached in the past parliamentary term – and, finally, on this issue, it is not worth wasting much time – because it is clear that this is not the case. Everyone knows that the Government has drafted a plan that is not coherent, nor does it substantially reflect what we agreed in the last legislature, I insist, because its objective was to seek microagreements between four. And to try to do that, they had to lower the contents of that document, to see if these gentlemen would agree with you. They've been plotting with them for a year, a year. And the spokesman for his Government and some prominent leaders of his party have had to recognize what we were saying, that they do not want to recognize the damage caused, that they are not willing to move forward. Because you know something? You have to learn from history. These gentlemen, the prisoners of ETA and ETA only advance when they have no remedy, when demand and firmness are maintained.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u85	Thank you, Mr. Ares. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u86	Thank you, President. I share Mr Ares' and Mr Maneiro's reflections on the matter. Mr. Ares, you're right. That plan was drafted to do the opposite of what was said to be desired, the opposite of the agreement. That's exactly why. Mr Iturrate, you have a road map that has two phases in this issue: that so-called plan of peace and coexistence, of Mr Fernández, and the other phase is to circumvent all agreements in this area with the non-nationalists, to elude them all. These are the phases and their road map in relation to this legislature of the orange handkerchief. Do you agree, Mr Iturrate, with the content, with the procedure that has been put in place? Are you satisfied right now? Tell me. Tell me if you are satisfied with what that agreement said, with regard to your philosophy of development, with the procedure to which you have referred, and with the time at which we are. Do you not think that you, the Government, you as a spokesman in the committee and in these matters, three parliamentary groups are making this criticism in this way and that you bring it here and that you agree with it on this subject? Don't you give it a thought? How do you rate that attitude? Don't you think we should do something else about the victims of terrorism and not worry so much about ETA prisoners? We cannot understand, Mr Iturrate, the obsessive attitude towards ETA prisoners and their situation that this Government has and that the secretariat has. You can't understand. Co-existence, Mr. Iturrate, and ETA prisoners are antagonistic and incompatible concepts and you are mixing them. But they won't confuse us. Why do you not make a real and realistic agreement with us, with the People's Party, with the Socialist Party and with UPyD? That's right, Mr. Iturrate. You have to cure it, Mr. Iturrate, and you don't. And they prefer to move in equidistance, and that's not ruling, Mr. Iturrate. And yes, sir, they have put on the orange handkerchief, because, if not, they would have made more efforts with us, efforts they have not made. Mr. Arzuaga, what you say and nothing is the same. It is subject to a strategy that escapes from this Parliament and from coexistence. You like ETA and its history, and that's enough reflection. You, Mr Arzuaga, are narcotized by the human rights violation that ETA represents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u87	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again. So, Mr. Iturate, you agree with the amendment of Ares on the ethical floor, which seems to be refracted, and that you agree with it. All right, take the note. I am right in one thing, and it is that we have not come here to talk of the plan of Peace and Society, but to applaud, to praise, to reprove, and to observe some particular repudiations which the law imposes. Political assumptions created by looking at a political collective of prisoners. We have a clear example today that tells us about the effect of it. Yesterday, applied to this exceptional legislation, an exceptional court obliged seven persons to punish seven young men for six years. Punished for developing a political, transparent, peaceful, public society. That same exceptional law which you today invoke, which you applaud today, applied by a court just as exceptional as you defend, sentenced yesterday seven young people to six years in prison for developing a public, political, absolutely transparent social activity. I would like to refer to the alleged terrorist events that appear in the sentence to verify later how you intend to apply certain illegitimate legal requirements, as I said earlier, that you today invoke: placing posters relating to Segi, execution of paintings, responsibilities at the neighborhood level, preparation of Segi concerts, sales of tickets of that terrorist organization, assistance to the Topagune Gazette or the Martxa Gazette, organization of debates, meetings, demonstrations. Not a violent fact, not a fact that can be considered criminal beyond that damn theory of the environment, that damn theory of everything is ETA. A single and exclusive sentence on arbitrary police theses and statements made incommunicado, statements of incrimination, indictable testimony extracted under the practice of torture. You bring us here certain illegitimate legal requirements, as I say, that are included in Law 7/2003, for their strict application, they say. And I ask myself: How should these young people definitely disassociate themselves from an organization to which they have never belonged? To which victims should you ask forgiveness, with those requirements that you invoke, so that there is not a single concrete and verifiable damage that you have been able to generate? What is the civil liability arising from their actions, all of them from the political sphere, from social activity, from the youth sector initiative, from peaceful activity that does not involve any attack on property or people? What kind of credible and accredited collaboration with the authorities will these young people – UPyD lords, PP lords, PSE lords – have to do to help resolve crimes committed by ETA pending resolution, etc.? Can you explain to me how you will operate these strictly applied requirements, as you request, with yesterday's convicts? It's a shame what they're doing with these young people, it's a real scandal what they're doing with a certainly rebellious youth of this country. An outrage that only proves the political character of the repressive loop in which the PP government is immersed. You want to keep the prisons full, that's your only recipe, that's your only project for this country. And that is precisely what it designates them, which configures them as true enemies of peace. We've got to make a phone call that RedM all over the place has been protected by the operator. Unfortunately, he offered to arrest four young men yesterday, using the edge, as it seems to be the fear of the trials which these unjust arrests may cause. Once more, including the police department, versus police integro. That's the discussion. Again, under the national audience, it's in the hands of that exceptional book of music. I don't know what Peace and Company Plan says about this. I only know that these facts, these operators, do not bring us to peace and fellowship at all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u89	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians have their word, Mr. Iturate, representing the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u90	President andrea. Of course, my group and this Government are listening, and we are really concerned about the situation and we would like to be able to improve the consensus. What happens is that it is very difficult with those who have a decision made and do not intend to share it with someone, but to impose it and, if not, break the deck and withdraw from the table, and especially when it is done from prejudice, from a speech that does not hold on the papers. From a goodist perspective, I'd think you guys haven't read the plan. It would be better than the alternative, which would be that, even though you have read it, you don't care what it says because you have an articulated speech in advance, which also occurs suddenly, which is not faithful to the practice that the Socialist Party has been following since you were in the government and when you became in the Peace and Co-existence Plan, not even at the time of the constitution of the peace and co-existence paper in this legislature. Because I remind you, Mr Ares, that when the Socialist Party proposed the constitution of the paper, the Nationalist Party tabled an amendment setting out the principles, four axes – look, and they are very similar to those you set out in your amendment – on which the work of the paper had to be based. And you know why they retired? Because the spokesman of his party said to withdraw, that it was only necessary to say that a paper should be made so that members of EH Bildu could sign and vote in favour of the paper. What I don't know is what happened next for you, who had been willing to withdraw any demands from that text, because you, especially you, in that paper forced us to admit your demands or to withdraw. What I don't understand is why you can, not talk, agree with EH Bildu anything important to this country: the EITB model, although it has nothing to do with the one that defends EH Bildu and you, the housing law... At that time, these gentlemen, who are representatives of a non-democratic party, become democratic, immaculate people. And when it comes to talking about coexistence, it turns out that it's not that you can't remember (it would seem reasonable to me, that until some demands are admitted you don't remember, it's what we're doing), no, it's that you can't talk, and you also want everyone else to stop talking. I think the only thing that's changed here is two things. That you and you have ceased to be in the Government and are not so concerned about presenting yourself with a portfolio full of consensus. Because I will also remind you that the consensus that you made in the last legislature was not the same at the beginning of the legislature and at the end, and in the last actions on memory the People's Party and UPyD had already taken off. And I ask you: what happened to me today to sign an amendment to the contrary, with those who defend exactly the opposite of what you have signed and supported in a law, Mr Ares? Not in a non-law proposition, not in words, not in birds and flowers: in a law you have committed to. What's the difference? I hope you find the way, I hope you find the north, I hope you find peace to organize, because it will be much easier to agree on this and on many other things and build in this country. As long as that does not happen, it is being very difficult for this government (try it or not), for this party (try it or not), because on many occasions we do not know with whom, as you well know. We therefore continue and will continue to engage in consensus, and we will continue to speak. And we're not going to lower, because we don't lower our demands. We have not yet met again in the talk of peace and coexistence, but I do say one thing: neither are we willing to accept blackmails in aeternum, we are not willing to accept blackmails to infinity. Moreover, because we are persevering in this matter, because in addition to the demands of society, we trust that, sooner than later, we will be able to make progress on the principles and commitments and on the demands that you and we have established on the ethical ground or on the Peace and Co-existence Plan of the previous legislature. I trust it will be. And I hope to see what excuse you put at that time not to sit at the table of the peace and coexistence presentation. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u91	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. The debate is over and we'll vote for the Mistto-UPyD, the Basque Popular and the middle-direction signed by the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 26; the opponents are 48; the whites are 0.0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u92	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. I interrupt the entire meeting till about four-fifteen. It was two and eleven in the afternoon. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at forty-seven.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u93	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll follow the entire meeting. Five point in theme list: "Greet up the other bill of law-making around the new law of the Hydrocarburs. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Mazzu, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u94	Good afternoon, all of you, first and foremost. I'd like to start this discussion with a question, because I think this question is very important at the time of dealing with this subject. And this question I ask, not because I hope, but because we all go out to this door, having already prepared our discourses, and I do not think that any one will answer me. But I think it would be a good exercise to find an answer to this question at the end of this discussion. And the question is very simple: what is more important, money, or health? Is it money or a healthy environmental pleasure? After all, that's the question for us about the change in the Hydrocar Sector's Law. What you do with that change of law is to put on the red carpet, a red carpet full of bills, a red carpet full of them. What is done in the change of the Hydrocut Sector Act, is to establish new tributes and rates of Hydrocutions, to explore the exploitation of the Fricing; and it is supposed that some of these new taxes will be directed to the communities, and will be directed to the peoples. Also, with this change of law, it also proposes to hand it over to the owners of 1% of the year's economic profits. So the same question I asked: can you buy your health with money? Can mother buy land with money? After all, what is done with these economic proposals from this change of law is to buy the society, and sell the country by selling the environment of society. And for us, environment is not for sale, but apparently for PP, EAJ, and UPN. And I mention these three parties, because these three parties are the three parties who have consented to the change of law in the Hydromaric sector of Madrid: PP, UPN and EAJ. And I forgot another one: Foro Asturias. And what have PP in common, EAJ, and UPN? We've known it for a long time: they are supposed to enjoy it in several things, but when they are in business, they agree in it, because they have the same growth, and when they see environmental views. Because environment is not a legacy to be protected by them, an inheritance to be left to the future generations of an estate which is to be enjoyed nowadays, but a property which is to be left to some few of them in order to be able to see their business increased by means of some means of economic gain. That's the environment for three of them. Beraz, you dut bear on which datorela gogoraraztea, momentu honetan, Ameriketako indioek zeukaten esaera zahar bat: "Only after the last tree has been cut, only after the last river has been contaminated, only after the last fish has been caught, only later you will realize that the money cannot be eaten". She's been driving ezin from jan. Egia da batzuek asko jaten dutela eta oso bizi direla –gutxi batzuk – diruarekin, baina jan, ezin da jan. And with that vote in Madrid, there's another attitude which is shameful to us, a shameful attitude in Madrid. In this law, there have been two important decisions in the energy area in Madrid. On the one hand, the reform of the electric sector and, on the other hand, the Hydrocar Sector Act. EAJ voted both for reforms. Electric Sector reform. Everyone says that reform was the most violent attack by retractable energy. I mean, though all criteria in Europe and other places tell us that we must go to some kind of spiritual model, built with electrical reform, to promote and protect a model that was built on fossil fuels, and also the Jest Party of the Euscipators was on the side of it. They told us at that time that they'd managed to protect the electric reform to save the cost of some industry, or at least to reduce it. It may be seen that this will really be so, but it is an objective data with this reform that the electric bill for simple citizens continues to increase: 18% April. So perhaps a few manufactures will profit, but all poor citizens suffer the effects of this electrical reform. Who do you run for? Who are you making decisions for in Madrid? And the law of the Hydrocar Sector. Francking is a reform that puts the red carpet on, and you say you're protecting it because you've managed to bring a piece of the gas market into Biscarate. Will that have any consequences in the bill of gas paid by simple citizens? No. Of course, there are few who do business, but no good for the general society. Well, I think it's pretty obvious what your attitude is in Madrid, and it's pretty obvious again with the Hydroburi sector law. But calm down, because society is already realizing what reality is. Don't worry... You're worried. As much as you strive in this campaign season, and especially in Álava, to try to say that there are some sectors within the PNV that are against fracking, the party is in favour of fracking, just like the People's Party. That's why we have a public company where we're spending money on fracking. That's why you've tried to mislead the loser with the words exploration and exploitation, saying that what you want is to explore and not exploit, when everyone knows that in exploration there is also fracking and that you explore to exploit. It is also clear when you have commissioned reports such as the one you have commissioned the Orkestra Foundation to study incentives for the exploration and exploitation of hydrocarbons. Why is a report commissioned from a foundation to study these incentives if it does not want to be exploited? It is also evident what the party's position is with the issue of fracking in the vote that the PNV gave in favor of the reform of the Hydrocarbons Sector Act in Madrid, although here, in Gasteiz, we were clear what the position was. There is nothing more to see why it has been going on for more than a year and a half, because of the obstacles that the Basque Nationalist Party, and in this case also in the hands of the People's Party, is constantly putting in the process of a popular legislative initiative of five articles. Five articles, and it has been going on in this Parliament for over a year and a half. And it is rather sad to see how the will of more than 103,000 people is hampered by the electoral and party interests of some parties. Therefore, a request to both parties, even if only because we are in the campaign, even if only because Mr Maroto and Mr Urtaran are very well served: we believe that you have an opportunity today with the non-law proposal that we have made from Euskal Herria Bildu to ask, at least, a moratorium on the issue of fracking. Our request is very simple. We demand to cancel the new law of hydrocarbures, and to start with a new regulator process on purpose of preventing franchise, until it proves that it is not injurious to environment and health. We do not require a general prohibition from Madrid, but we demand that this law of hydrocarbures, which is now being made, which puts the red carpet on the fracching, is not proved to be injurious to environment and health. We believe this is a kind of proposal to sign, considering that we are in the campaign and that many of the charges of PP and EAJ have an attitude in this campaign. So it's not our last goal with the fracing. We say it very clearly: it's our failure to destroy, because we think that the neurotic model that rests on fossil fuels is exhausted. But, well, we can see that you're still trying to explore fossil fuels. At least, at the moment, this practice of environment is so injurious to the environment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u95	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Lehendakari, good afternoon. Bildu asks the Government of Spain to withdraw the new hydrocarbon law and launch a new regulatory process with the aim of banning fracking, until it is shown that it is not harmful to the environment and health. Firstly, it must be said that the Government of Spain does not process any new legislation; the Government of Spain is in the process of amending Law 34/1998 on the Hydrocarbons Sector. First misconception. There is no new law, it is an amendment to an existing law. We talked, as I told you, about a 1998 law. After 17 years it is necessary to modify and adapt it. What is the purpose of this amendment to the Hydrocarbons Act? Firstly, it is intended to introduce greater competition and transparency with regard to the sector's price formation system. The new organized gas market is created and regulated. In addition, a single market area is created between Spain and Portugal, similar to what is happening with the electricity market. This amendment aims to reduce fraud in the fuel market. In addition, the aim is to ensure greater consumer protection by imposing supply obligations on traders. In addition, the aim is to reduce costs to consumers by liberalising inspections of gas reception facilities, allowing installers who already have the proper authorisation to carry out these inspections; up to now only distributors could do so. New marketers are encouraged to enter. A tax is created on the value of production in oil, condensate and gas extractions. The surface canon is updated. The cannon already existed. You have begun to worry now, on the eve of the elections, about the canon. This canon already existed and has been updated, because it was a canon that was established in 1998. In addition, two new scales are introduced for drilling and acquisition of seismic data. In addition, Mr Maeztu, this amendment seeks to make the Hydrocarbons Act a useful, adapted and up-to-date instrument so that Spain can have a network of gas interconnections sufficient to supply the rest of Europe with gas from the Maghreb. A very important, strategic action, and one that is covered by the states of the European Union. Two months ago there was a conference in Madrid and the various presidents of the states said so. You, Mr. Maeztu, on behalf of EH Bildu makes a twisting interpretation of a new law – which is not a new law – of the measures that this law of updating the canon may become in reality. You make a quasifirm interpretation, and you say – it is your conclusion, yours alone – that the government is only trying to push fracking. As I told you, the canon had existed since the year 98. It means that since the year 98 we've been pushing fracking, not now, if it's the canon. This law does not touch the techniques. Fracking is a technique and this law does not touch it, it has absolutely nothing to do with it. But, as I was telling you, you're in the fracking ghost, you've imbued yourself with it and you're going on. He sees this ghost everywhere and he only knows how to make this debate, he doesn't know how to make another one. Mr Maeztu, you asked us a question, whether money or the environment is more important. I refer you to the barometer, to the last of sociological prospecting, where fracking does not appear as a concern of citizens. But the environment is at 16. Look at what citizens are worried about before the environment, the answer is there. He looks at it and there's the answer; not that of the People's Party. It's on the barometer. If I had looked, I shouldn't have asked that question here. And another thing. I believe that at least we are trying to be respectful in this House, and the positions of the other groups may or may not like it, but they are all respectable. For me, his position is respectable. I do not share it and I make clear here the arguments why I do not share it. But the terms you use are rude, just rude, and I'm not going to allow that. No, because they're different. Therefore, respect for the positions of the other groups, which would be the first lesson that should have been learned. We have tabled an amendment to this initiative where we say that the Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain to continue the process of amending the law of the year 98, because we believe that the amendments proposed by this law are timely and necessary to adapt the hydrocarbon sector to the reality of the 21st century and to be a much more strategic sector. So, Mr. Maeztu, I'm sorry. You're wrong. This is not a fracking debate; this is a debate of modernising the hydrocarbon sector, whether it understands it or not. Yes you understand; what happens is that you just want to come and discuss fracking. I would also like to mention that I understand that the Socialist Group is going to support this initiative by EH Bildu... I would like to recall a text, because Mr Maeztu has also referred to what European Union bodies say. Mrs Red, in a 2012 debate in this House, reminded us of something that the European Union was saying. I mean, for all those ghosts he's got, that anyway, if he reads anything, he gets his peace of mind back. Mrs Red said: "The European Commission has taken the view that there is no need to create more legislation than we have today. It has rightly stressed that there is nothing extraordinary, exceptional, intractable or catastrophic about the exploration of non-conventional gas and that it cannot be regulated and controlled by the laws currently in force in the member countries of the European Union." Does this give you more peace of mind? Who's cheating? You falsify the data it manifests here. You don't know what you're leaning on. You suggest that the whole society of the Basque Country is immersed in this concern when, if it goes to the barometer, the fracking does not appear ; as I say, the environment, in the number 16. I therefore believe that Basque society is quite in line with how the environment is treated in this Autonomous Community and sees no danger. Therefore, I repeat to you that you remove your ghosts, your obsessions. Calm down. Therefore, we, as I say to you, will support the amendment that we have tabled, which we believe is right, which is what the Spanish Government should do: to legislate what makes it easier for us to have a competitive, strategic hydrocarbon sector and to give opportunities to our territory, to the rest of Spain and to Europe. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mr. Maniro, who is the representative of the Misto-UPyD team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u98	Thank you, President. Very briefly, to say that we are going to vote against the original initiative put forward by EH Bildu. In other words, we are not going to ask the Government of Spain to withdraw this bill to reform the Hydrocarbons Sector Act. It seems to us that it is a clearly improveable bill. We presented our arguments at the Congress of Deputies a few weeks ago. We explain here what we think about the issue and we have tabled a number of partial amendments there, where it is appropriate, because, as I say, we believe that this draft is clearly improveable. But we do not make any full amendments, nor do we support the return of the text, because we believe that it is necessary to update that law, which is now a few years old. Therefore, that is the position of UPyD. With regard to fracking, which is the subject on which Mr Maeztu has intended to speak and argue, and it is the subject he is concerned about, I am not going to say too many things either. I only refer to what we have already said in this Parliament on this issue. I will therefore not duplicate arguments or discussions that have already taken place. And also in relation to fracking, we will talk about the issue in the Congress of Deputies, and we will talk in the coming weeks in this Parliament when the ILP is debated on the issue. In conclusion, we will vote against the EH Bildu initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u99	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Rojo, the Basque Socialist, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u100	Thank you, President. And good afternoon, everyone. Mr. Lehendakari. I want to begin this intervention by saying that we have discussed countless occasions on the subject of fracking, because, as much as they are committed to saying no, the amendment of the Hydrocarbons Act, which is indeed a law amendment, has much to do with the development of fracking technique in Euskadi; there is nothing more to do with the performance of the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party that day in the Congress of Deputies. On this occasion the debate comes from the hand of EH Bildu, after many parliamentary initiatives, and yet today we have the same uncertainties as at first. Today, the focus of the initiative is on amending the Hydrocarbons Act. The People's Party in Spain has managed to pass its first parliamentary procedure in the Congress of Deputies, and therefore the consideration went ahead. Every time we talk about this issue, the Basque Nationalist Party, in the voice of its spokespersons in the matter or in the voice of the advisor herself in the branch, always end up telling us the same thing, with phrases that could summarize the position of Basque Nationalists. We are always told that we are in a zero phase, that it has not even begun the development of anything that has to do with fracking, and that we are the rest who strive to see ghosts. No, Mrs. López de Ocariz, they're not ghosts. I think you know, as we all know, that there are no certainties, but I tell you what data, reports that at least make us doubt. They make us doubt. I do not believe that I have any clear certainty of 100 per cent, and of course I do not believe that of almost nothing or nothing, nor of this either. I therefore believe that we are at a zero stage which is fraught with doubts on the part of the Socialist Group. On the other hand, they always play with the word exploration or exploitation, wanting to lead us to a debate as if we wanted to advance something when we are at that zero stage. Of course, those who speak to them and my group know what the zero phase is, know what exploration is and know what exploitation would entail. So, we know what we're talking about every moment. They also say that while the Government is working on what it should (which we don't know very well what it should be, because they haven't just told us), the rest (Bildu and PSOE in this case) are working on taking the debate where it shouldn't be. That is another of the assertions they make in this of taking time in interventions to end up saying nothing. And the PP Hydrocarbons Act told us the other day Mrs Tapia who is in the previous debate and that the time will come for the amendments. I hope you don't get as upset as you're doing here with the ILP and we can know what you want from that law change, which we also know at what stage of the process you're at. And then something that is very good, which is to talk about the public interest, the technical endorsement and the utmost respect for environmental requirements. It's something you always say so you don't end up with anything. Then some new phrases, which are also very good in the speech and which I can share, which are: it is necessary to investigate, it is necessary to know, it is necessary to value and know to decide. That is the last thing they have been telling us in recent debates. It is every single statement, as much as we have been able to know about what this government wants with regard to the fracking technique. I don't mind asking in the form of a non-law proposal, I don't mind asking a parliamentary question to the councilwoman or to the lehendakari, when it comes to answering correctly, or it doesn't matter if we do it in the form of a written question. They're always the same answers so, as I say, they don't end up saying anything. But as long as the PNV and the spokespersons in the matter repeat as a mantra this series of always similar assertions, in the end the opposition groups, that we are committed to knowing something else, we never get any clear answer. All are ambiguities, all are that no exploration, no exploitation, what previous phase, that first process of the law, that the amendments will arrive, that we will see, and in the meantime we have an electoral campaign. I don't care if you say we're on an election campaign. Well, yeah, we're on an election campaign, it's starting at 12 o'clock today. And it seems fair to me that Basque citizens know what their political parties want about something like fracking. It does not seem to me critical that we can talk about this either because we are in an electoral campaign, because we are in an electoral campaign all the time. Those who do their work in politics will meet with the collectives of all sectors every month, every week, every day. And that's a theme that's been going on for six years. So, the election campaign is coming, yes. And, oh surprise!, Mr. Maroto signs the platform proposal and Mr. Urtaran too. They sign the platform proposal, which sign all those who are against fracking. And that proposal of the platform clearly says: "I will impede on the competences that develop in my charge the development of fracking technique". That is what the proposal that the Basque Socialists have signed says, I understand that Bildu's candidates too; the candidate for mayor of Vitoria who you always vote against, against this too, and the PNV candidate too. Then they will understand that those of us who are part of Basque society at least have doubts about what the Basque People's Party thinks and what the Basque Nationalist group thinks in a group, because what cannot be said is that in a town hall it is said: "We Basque nationalists of Oyon, we are against fracking. Our game..." No, it's just that we represent the autonomous forces here, and I think it's fair that we all know what we're talking about; in the electoral campaign and not in the electoral campaign, but in the electoral campaign, even more so, it seems to me. So, as I tell you, we always end up talking about the same thing and you guys don't say anything. And we arrived at the Congress of Deputies, with a government with an absolute majority of the PP that needs nothing or anyone else – there's nothing more to see what they're doing – and can do what they want. And the saviors of the homeland of the PNV arrive to vote for something that, if they had wanted to pass by, would not have been necessary and vote in favour of taking into consideration a law that goes against what Mrs Tapia says of public interest, technical endorsement and maximum respect for environmental requirements. No need at all, because you don't have to join anyone. But with all this we can't have any doubts either. Well, well, Mr. PNV will no longer explain it when he comes down to the rostrum. And the truth is that we have been repeating arguments over and over again, initiatives to end up, Mr Maeztu, always at the same votes; they vote in favour, they vote against. But now with one point added: groups presenting amendments and groups receiving amendments just before the debate. I don't know if it's because they don't finish the debates or if it's because we change our minds. Because, Mr Maneiro, your amendment, which you withdrew in time perfectly, was textually saying the same thing that Mr Maeztu proposed, that the Hydrocarbons Act should be withdrawn. Man, the criterion of a law is not decided in a month. I don't know, I'm surprised. Maybe they were wrong to put "remove" and wanted to put "strengthen," I don't know. But what is clear is that you had an opinion at the time Bildu presented the initiative and another criterion on the law at the time you withdrew it. That's what I think. We therefore repeat and repeat, and we are in the process of the ILP, which is going to be longer than the amendment of the Statute of Autonomy or the Rules of Procedure of this House itself. An ILP that has three leaflets, three. I mean, we know from memory the spokespersons in the matter, which I can tell you up to textual paragraphs, because three folios in two years... And here we continue to feel the loss because the election campaign was there. And we all knew it. Because we spoke about it a thousand times, that we wanted the municipal authorities to come up with clear ideas so that the citizens would know what they were voting for when talking about fracking. Because you can call the Hydrocarbons Act, you can call it whatever you want, but what you can't criticize, gentlemen of the PNV, who rules in Spain for drowning the renewables and bringing here a retaliation of appearances to put Mr. Mariano Rajoy as the ultimate enemy of everything green, including the environment, to end up supporting the amendment of the Hydrocarbons Act. Because, we will see, they will end up supporting the amendment of the Hydrocarbons Act. The central government cannot be attacked all day because it is that oppressive state that does not allow us to develop competences and, when we can develop something that is in our hands through popular legislative initiative, to extend and extend so that the debate will never come. You cannot vote in favour of fracking and sign against fracking – they will explain, we will see it. That's what the Basque Nationalist group does. You can't attack the commitments of a platform like Fracking Ez! and end up presenting in municipalities the literal text that gives you the platform and of which a political party echoes, that this is what the PNV is doing in Alaves municipalities. One cannot define a government as an example of transparency and that six years later – it is true that you are governing in this last legislature – we have no idea what you are trying to achieve. So, we're in a situation that's starting to be surreal. Those who are against fracking sign what is in favor of fracking, those who are in absolute majority vote, those who do not need, for a law that we do not know very well what you want, because, in your opinion, it has nothing to do with fracking. Turns out this isn't important now because it's number 16 on the barometer. So, since it's not one of the first citizens' concerns, let's charge ourselves with the environment. Let's see if we catch up in Spain on issues of unemployment, corruption and fraud, which is at the top of all these surveys. But because the environment is at number 16, it doesn't mean we don't care. It's just that we'd have to worry about the first to the last and be able to give answers. And, Mrs López de Ocariz, I share the view that there is probably a need to amend the law, this and others that come from years and years. But, of course, we would have to know what we want to change the law for, what that amendment of the law seeks, and with whom the amendment of the law is going to be made. And if you read the Journal of Sessions of the Day of Debate in Congress, you can clearly see what positions have some or what positions have others. Because you can clearly say that we are in phase zero, that then exploration will come, that we do not know if exploitation will come, but when any politician takes a legal text to discuss (the housing law, the municipal law or the law of victims of terrorism), he has a kind of attitude about what he wants from that bill. And there are things that you read and look like a misconception from the minute one, and there are things that you read and say, "Well, this way you can go." Because everything has a part of ideology. Because here we're not playing a circus, we're doing politics. And I know perfectly well what these gentlemen are up to with fracking and I know what you are up to. But it's just that you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u101	Miss Rojo, go and finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u102	I'm done, Madam President. I think the Basque Nationalist group is playing what it wants, which is the waste. So, let's see if you can finally explain what you intend to do. Minister Soria clearly said that through the Hydrocarbons Act there would be a much more feasible freeway to fracking, as it was something that had to be developed given the economic crisis we are in. So, anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u103	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Carroll, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u104	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. What did the PNV vote in Madrid? Of course, the amendment to the Hydrocarbons Act 1998 will continue. What are we here for today? Of course, to talk about fracking. We have no problem, we continue to talk about fracking, however much the incentives to extract all kinds of hydrocarbons are just a very specific point of that Hydrocarbons Act. But, well, change it. At the time of amendments you can present whatever you want, you have no problem. We talk about here: the fracking, the PNV, which is always – I've heard – dizzying with the ILP, putting obstacles... Let's see. Let's see how this bill, which provides for a total ban on investigating and exploiting these hydrocarbons, turns out to be laid down by the Constitution. We have three autonomous communities that have collected it. And it turns out that this is only three lines? Please! What needs to be done is to work rigorously. And that's what we asked for. And, what a curiosity, we have 42 laws that have already been dealt with only in this legislature and this is the special one, in this one we have to run. Why? Because, if not, Mr. Maeztu and Mrs. Red aren't in the picture. It turns out there must be some contest to see who's the best poster, and then we had to have the law already done. No, sir. This report – which we question so much in New York – this public health report, which is presented in December 2014, starts – and we only have to read the first page – in September 2012. Then this is a subject to be treated with great rigour. And with regard to the criteria of the Basque Nationalist Party with this law, it has been very clear since 2008. Since you took over the government, we have clearly left an environmental impact assessment study and 16 wells, which today is called a "full assessment study", all together. What did you do? Do I have to remind you of what the Patxi López government did when the ministry asked for an extension of documentation when they entered? What did they say to him: "No, don't ask me for documentation. Of 16 wells we're left with one"? And as soon as he says to them, "Okay. If it's just one, go ahead," they start by asking for another, asking for another, and we end up in nine. And it has had to be this Government that has brought everything back and returned to its original position. Are we better than in 2011? Of course I do. Because in 2011 we were very lost. And we were so lost that that very society, that Basque society, punished that Government with the exclusion of social leave. There wasn't that social leave. And why? Because you were already coming with a rather lack of transparency process. Or do we no longer remember the famous electoral programme or the government programme of the Socialist Party, which had to consist of 15 documents? We started with 11, then 13, in the end we ended with 15; 15 documents to form a single government program. Then we arrived with the BOE, with all these hydrocarbon research permits and ended up in the same: "now yes, now supplementary documentation", "look, no", "then I ask you another"... And that's the end of it. What will society think? Eye, and caution. What did we tell him, and I don't have to take out the Journal of Sessions again. The same day Mr. Patxi López was in Texas, there with helmet and everything, saying that the panacea had arrived and that this was wonderful... He dropped the canteen of milk and goodbye, the tale of milk, because to extract all that had to be done hundreds of wells. What will Basque society think? Logically, he's very afraid, and the perception of that risk is real. And what has the PNV done? For that perception of risk, logically, there it is, demonstrated in all the municipalities. What also hurts EH Bildu? Well, the first town hall here has to be Kuartango's and not be theirs, EH Bildu's. Why? Because they also like postureum, but, like all postureum, it has its double face, it has face and cross. And that's the way it is. It's true that today we don't have much time, but we'll expose ourselves another day. Thank you. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u105	Thank you. Please be quiet. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. This law is intended to... blah, blah, blah, Mrs. Ocariz. With this law what is intended is to put a red carpet to fracking. And not because Dani Maeztu says so. The newspaper El País, which I think is the most read in the Spanish state, headlined: "Rajoy creates a tax to overcome social opposition to prospecting." And the news began: "The government seeks to overcome the resistance of the anti - fracking people. " The country. They're sick, Mrs. Ocariz, they're sick. EFE Agency, one of the most followed agencies also in the Spanish state: "The government approved in December a bill for the modification of hydrocarbons where tax incentives are collected for municipalities and communities". They must be sick, too. By the way, it's really good to go out here, ask for respect and call a congressman sick. I'm not gonna walk around with remixes and half inks. You are cynical, when you know perfectly well that this law, because the newspapers that have followed the processing of this law say, is to put a red carpet to fracking, to try to overcome the resistances with money (taxes) that exists today for fracking. And, Mr Carro, you ask us for much more rigour. Rigor, in what? EH Bildu defends the same in the Parliament of Gasteiz as in Oyón, Subijana or Kuartango. Does the Basque Nationalist Party do the same? No, no, What is the company that has the most permits right now for fracking exploration? SHESA, a 100 per cent public company, in the hands of the Basque Government, which today, if it wanted the PNV, could renounce all permits. What are your people signing in Oyon, Subijana, Kuartango or the candidate for the mayor's office of Vitoria? That you reject fracking and that you will do everything possible to avoid fracking. Rigor, for who? For the one who says one thing from this rostrum and does another thing in pre-election campaign in a town hall? Please, Mr. Car. It will be campaign, we will be in pre-campaign, but we have been defending the same with fracking in the last five years in this House. Same thing. Can you say the same thing? No, no, So, let's see who the rigor is for. And I'll finish by saying you've got a hell of a chance to stop this law Madrid. Why do you want to transfer that law? Is it possible to make a fracking and buy your will for a few of them? No. What do you get with this law's treatment? What have you done? A gas merchant in Biscay? Is that what you do? To increase or maintain a business for a few, for the sake of your health? Is that what you do? Who's behind that market? Who's behind that Gas Hub in Iberian? EVE (allon the public money) plus Gas Natural, plus Iberdronla (I suppose you know Iberdrola well, you can see Atucha, Mario Fernandez, Xabier de Iragas, also EDPDP Naturgas (a few of your friends are on it), Endes, E.ON, Repsol (I think you know who's in this moment, the head of the Reps, and you've made it private business. So you don't defend the interests of this country in Madrid. Your delegates are just commercial in Madrid, my favorite hobby, and the commercial work of a company of parrots in Madrid. And don't come here to tell me that this law will profit in the Euskate. No good at all. It's just as usual that we exploit environmental profits for a few of them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u107	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Maeztu, one question: How many land-use fees have the municipalities of Bildu renounced? Cannons of antennas, wind turbines, quarries, extractions. How many? None. What are you talking about? Really, what are you talking about? If you, to bring here fracking, have taken this law amendment by the hairs! What are you talking about? Mrs Red, for a moment it seemed to me that you were opposed to a meeting in Bildu, frankly. Energy policy of the Socialist Party. I can talk about what you said in this House and what the Lopez Government did when it had the responsibility to govern. In 2011, the Government of López approved the Energy Strategy of Euskadi 2020 Do you remember it? The one you forgot all of a sudden. Among the measures proposed by that strategy was to increase the security and competitiveness of gas supply. Does that ring a bell? Secondly, to support the creation of an organised gas market with the active participation of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Responsible, the Ministry of Industry. This was what you asked for in the strategy. This is what this modification does. I don't know if in 2011 you cared and not today. So when you talk to me about the Socialist Party's energy policy, you confuse me. It's pendulum politics: when I rule, I'm on one side, a position; and when I don't rule, I'm on the other. You've kicked the government of Lopez and the government of Zapatero with a pen. It's just that besides, Mrs. Red, this goes parallel at the same time to the picture of Dallas. What politician went to take the picture in Dallas with the wells? What government? Who's gone? Who was it? I have not seen a lehendakari of the Basque Nationalist Party or the Government of Spain. It was Mr. Lopez, he was short on time to go. And what did the headlines say? What was he selling? "The EVE will invest 100 million euros in Álava to extract rock gas." What did he say? He said more: "Euskadi aspires to become a European gas power with the collaboration of two companies in the United States". Then you're against it, but here I was wearing a lot of background and picture. "The autonomous executive believes that there are reserves to cover consumption for 60 years." Well, this was his energy policy when he ruled; now he's on something else. What were the criteria of the Government of López to continue with the project of extracting rock gas? That was repeated as active and passive in this House. And they said three things: technical viability, economic viability and environmental viability. Thirdly, because first it was the technique, second it was the economic one and third it was the environmental one. And that was repeated until exhaustion. What are the principles that the other groups put forward here in a compromise amendment that you did not want to add to? Environmental respect, scientific knowledge, improved techniques and benefits for society. This differentiates their energy policy from that of others. You, when you are in government, are in some things; now you bring us the environment here. Listen, Mrs Red, who first put the technique ahead, second put the economic part, and third, the environmental part. You do not sell us here a motorcycle that does not serve us, that this already has a long trajectory. Denial of Mr. Lopez's policy. It rejects the policy, as it did in another debate, of Mr Sebastián, Minister of the Government of Zapatero. What is your energy policy? He didn't tell us, he doesn't tell us what his energy policy is. Critiques the rest, and what's yours? Was that Mr. Lopez's? The Zapatero government? What is it now? For at that time the socialist gurus did not go out to criticize all the governments; afterward, as mushrooms, the experts have gone out. Of course, if some positions in this House can be said to be contradictory, it is those of the Socialist Group, which, as soon as the government left, changed its strategy. And the People's Party has on many occasions expressed that in natural and protected spaces we do not approve these kinds of techniques. And that is the argument of the mayor of Vitoria to protect the area of the Vitoria Mountains, which has explained it many times. What happens is that you want to hear what you want to hear. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mist won't speak. Mrs. Rojo, the Basque Socialist, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u110	Thank you, President. Very little time for many things. Mr Carro, in fact, there are three remedies of unconstitutionality with regard to the laws of two autonomous communities. Knowing where the error of each of the texts is, do you think we will be able to find where the problem is, legally, to make it not unconstitutional? I tell you the Socialist Party does. Don't you? It'll be your problem. That, one. Mrs. López de Ocariz... And I'm not going to tell you any more because you've come here with an absolutely embarrassing attitude, of whom you're tightening your shoe, when the election campaign begins, because they don't mean where... –Ms. López de Ocariz, don't give up, I'm with Caro. [[Barres]] ... Not to say what he thinks. The Basque Nationalist Party is with the fracking. You've come here for five minutes of ten to say nothing. I repeat the question: yes or no? Point. Don't tell me rolls, that if Lopez did, that if the helmet, that if the report, that if I don't know what. No way! Let them govern you, let them tell me: Basque Nationalist Party, yes or no. That's what the citizen wants to know. Because we can go to Franco's time, to what were those defending about what, to end up reaching 2015: "Oh, I don't have time! I'm not saying anything." That's what the Basque Nationalist Party does: dizzying, falsifying and lying to the citizen. While here they support fracking, Urtaran votes no to fracking. Answer. Mrs López de Ocariz, you did not refer to me in the first round, but you come here to give us lessons of education, class, not insulting, not disrespecting. Look, I'll be Bildu's telloner, which I don't think so, but, of course – I don't know who you are from – when you go to the concert to be Bildu's telloner, you can come to be a telloner of the PNV, for example. Because from a time to this part you have taken a turn, and with whom they had agreed before all the environmental... As they rule in Spain and these are needed from time to time, they have turned around to end up negotiating with the Basque Nationalist Party. And what's my energy model? We have not come to talk about the energy model of the PSE, which I can explain to you at any time. It doesn't have to be in a rostrum: having coffee. We have come to talk about the amendment of the Hydrocarbons Act proposed by the Rajoy Government, which undermines the environment in Basque, with the approval of the Basque Nationalist Party, which at that time looked elsewhere. And then, you say, "No, it's just that you said so." I'll tell you one thing. It does not come to a year when this very Member of Parliament in a debate on fracking said that, with all that we knew at the time, the Socialist Party of Euskadi was making a modification of what it had been defending, because we understand that it is not possible to make a back policy for citizens. That's what we said. And, Mrs López de Ocariz, you and I have shared many debates, but a time has come when you do not know how to get out here if you do not speak of Mr López, of course of the omnipresent Mr Zapatero, and today Mr Sebastián comes out of the roundabout. And if you listened to the debates, I did not criticize Mr Sebastian's industrial policy. I said that in the Gemini permit, which we were discussing at the time, that decision was wrong. Does that mean that it is against all of Mr Sebastian's energy policy? No, no, Of course, the energy policy that looks like the one defended by the Socialist Party is not that of Cañete – I tell you from now on – and of those who defend the prospecting in the Canary Islands either, and of those who defend the drowning of renewable energies neither, and of those who make them want to make pacts in the General Councils for wind pacts, and then to put them down when they come to the Basque Parliament, either. And you, the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party – because you have come here with the definitions that I would not have entered – are the ones who have agreed with the Basque Nationalist Party that an ILP that could be debated and on the table so that the citizens would know what we were talking about (if the opinion is not finished, yes the amendments recorded), will be extended and extended, so that today the electoral campaign will begin and we only know that Mr Javier Maroto is against it. And, in the background, the gentlemen of the PNV are jealous of you, because Mr Maroto says "I don't want nuclear energy" and votes no; "I don't want fracking " and votes no. And these gentlemen, in the background, have to sue their leaders, going down to the rostrum to get dizzy so they don't say anything. So, what I'm telling you here is that I have a clear energy model. In that paper – do you remember? – we also believe it is extended and extended, so that that paper never ends, so that only those who are interested will come. They put us once every month and a half to make it seem like the paper is going on. Man, we all know what's going on here. And, Mr Carro, I repeat, you do not need to spend 10 seconds: yes or no. It's the only thing Basque citizens want to know: yes or no to fracking. Today the tide, and on the 25th, with Mrs Tapia at the head and the lehendakari looking elsewhere, will follow the fracking projects at the hand of the Popular Party in Madrid. And then, since there will be no more elections, they will worry a little less. I don't care if they start in Kuartango or Nanclares. The Socialist Party defends what it defends in all municipalities, because the PSE is not the PSE of Iruña de Oca, it is the PSE. And you, who go so much as a country party, the Basques of the Basques, the ones who defend everything, not the PNV of Oyon, the PNV of Gernika or the PNV of Bilbao.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u111	Miss Rojo, please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u112	The PNV, yes or no. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u113	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Carroll, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u114	Thank you, Madame Committee. Out of deference, Mrs Red, I will first speak to Mr Maeztu, as he has presented the initiative, and then I will devote a few minutes to you. You see, Mr. Maeztu, rigor. But it will not deny me that the rush you had in January for this law to come quickly to you did not come well so that, when the Constitutional Court gives its opinion on the Catalan law, you say that you are going to make some amendments that take advantage of that line. That's what we all want, to improve that law. And can it be improved? Well, of course, and you recognized it yourself. Then it's one thing to do and another thing to say. Because Bildu also has face and cross, and not just in that story. They are full of examples: Ikurriña bai, spainola ez, and then we have already seen how everything has gone. What happened to the budgets of all the Gipuzco municipalities? They've had to pass and keep the royal decree there and not go through the deficit. Why? Because you say something, you eat something here by mouth, but then the facts cost a lot. And you, Mr. Maeztu, too. And EH Bildu too. And they talk a lot about sustainability. I remember here when they stayed with the journalists, that Mr Maeztu was skiing in Parliament and everyone like crazy to take his picture; and when they start to investigate sustainability, it turns out that he has come four and a half kilometers from the Gamarra Gate to here. Well, congratulations! (Barreak) Four and a half kilometers came skiing from the Gamarra Gate, and if not, let him recognize it. Come on. (Barreak) But what's going on? He came skiing in Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u115	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u116	And what am I going to get at? What doesn't count is that it has a lot of sustainability, but it also has a car with hydrocarbons, like everyone else. And, instead of 4.5, he drove 54 kilometers from Ermua to the Gamarra Gate. Like the rest of the 2,200,000 Basques. Well, we have to look for energy for everyone, gentlemen. Then one of lime and one of sand. That's the reality. And I don't tell you about Anoeta anymore. I don't tell you about Anoeta anymore. That Anoeta doesn't and now Anoeta does. Why? Because we're gonna be in elections, just like... No, EH Bildu. Mr. Maeztu no longer, EH Bildu. To Mrs. Red. You shouldn't be too careful. When I was at Korrika on 28 March, a representative of the ILP platform came and told me what amendments I was going to make. So see how things are, if citizenship is pretty clear what the PNV does and what it doesn't do. You, however, would have to have a little... Because I think you do know this gentleman – and this was March 11, 2015 – the PSOE Secretary of Political Action and Citizenship. He does not believe that his Government was wrong about fracking and insists that "with zero environmental risk, waste 60 years of gas I don't know who is willing to do it". Well, it wasn't the Basque Nationalist Party, it was Patxi López, so you're the one who's in trouble at home. We've got it pretty clear here. Since we blew this off in 2011, a lot of prudence. Public control of resources yes, SHESA yes, research yes, but not at any price. And in that line we are. What happens is that, wanting to work rigorously, here we are shaken. That's what's up to us. Okay, we'll take it. But we continue to work rigorously. And with regard to Madrid, we have been working here for over 30 years, in the Basque Country. You probably... Your predecessors, yes, some of that group, I don't think so. I was on to other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u117	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. When the discussion is ended, the proposal [is] to the vote according to the law of the children of Israel. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 37; the opponents are 38. white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u118	The middle-line correction has not been accepted. Then we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Group. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 37; the opponents are 37; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u119	Since it's a draw, we're going to vote again for the full correction of the Basque Potion Group. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u120	It's a draw, so we'll leave it for the next round meeting. Number of points in theme list: "To inform them of the products and services offered by the savings and banks. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr Prinett, it's yours to introduce and take care of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u121	President, ladies and gentlemen. The products and services of the cash and bank financial sector have been experiencing significant variations in their location, security, risk, costs or benefits for years. The small in time, but dramatic in consequence, history of these last years of cash and banks has resulted in scandals, property damage, destruction of employment, business closures, evictions, abusive interests, ruins that have ended up affecting and mistreating many citizens. Seals, subordinates, preferred ones, certain mortgages, the ground clause are some examples of trade excesses and abuses in cash and banks. In countless cases of these products it has been shown that it has been played with ignorance, sometimes from whom it sold and many times more from whom it bought. In others, it has been acknowledged that trust has been abused; in others, insufficient information has been provided. In any case, the losers have always been the same, the consumers. In this Parliament we have dealt with these problems in many sessions, and on several occasions policy has had to intervene to mediate and try to alleviate some of the consequences of these excesses and abuses. Justice has also acted, and today there are many rulings that have failed to defend the consumer. Legislation on the one hand and judgments on the other have been repairing and running part of this dramatic situation. Still, much remains to be done. At present there are products that are difficult to interpret, understandable and evaluable to customers, becoming unaware of the scope of what they consume or acquire. Every day, in the offices of financial institutions there are people who do not know the risk of the products they take, whether it is high, medium or low. Products about which they don't know what their advantages are, how much they're going to report, how and how they can cancel it. Products for which it is not known what other offers exist in the competition authorities. Financial institutions sell many insurances in which many of the clients do not know the coverage until they have a claim. They also sell investment funds that are not known to be profitable. They sell accounts where their maintenance cost is not known until the bill is passed on to you. They sell operations that the commission doesn't know about until it has to be paid for. They cover commissions for discovered at times unfairly disproportionate. Each day they restrict more the operation and availability for receiving orders and for other types of attention to users. Moreover, as far as is known today, the collection of fees for third-party operations is already being prepared. These and other problems require our consideration and also treatment. According to the Department of Market Conduct and Claims of the Banco de España, during 2013 the claims increased by 142 % compared to 2012. Much of these claims were resolved by the Banco de España, giving the users the reason. However, in many of them financial institutions did not want to support them. According to the OCU, the majority of banking users are most requested to sell easily understood products, where the fees they will be charged are clearly established. It seems that we are still far from this objective, because we continue to proliferate products linked to multiple conditions, with hidden or semi-hidden limitations and commissions. In a study carried out by Adicae on financial education, one of the most relevant data is that 70% of the users consulted want more training because they want to be more secure in their banking relationship, as they fear that abusive clauses and toxic products will be taken away from them. Financial institutions are very aware of this situation, and in order to heal themselves in health, after major scandals, protests, complaints and judicialization of cases, they have decided to try to transfer all responsibility to the consumer or to let the consumer get away with this reality. In other words, financial institutions have decided to protect themselves, but in the way they are doing so it is not clear, on the contrary, that this procedure of inundating the consumer with papers and collecting his signature ensures with certainty that the consumer knows what he is acquiring, with what values that entity treats its customers, or what servitudes and costs the services and products they offer him have. The plethora of supposedly informative paper and consumer signature requirements may be useful in trying to ensure that financial institutions do not take responsibility to the courts for what they sell, but it is not clear that they serve much more. Excess information does not guarantee your understanding. Hence the policy that must ensure the collective interest is able to build and offer to the whole citizenry, the most vulnerable part in this commercial relationship, tools of knowledge and defense in the acquisition of these services and products. At present there are financial institutions that either because of a cost or other problem instruct their employees not to spend too much time giving explanations to customers. As some who manage human resources say, it is not a question of acting as a customer advisor, but as a seller; let the customer buy and firm, who already has the papers, the information. And that's where the job ends. However, any honest professional in the trade union knows, and so it is when asked, that consumers, according to which products and also in a majority way, still need the confidence of the manager of the financial institution to decide on a product and to have peace of mind about what they are acquiring. As things stand, we must rebel against this Machiavellian game of nullifying quality advice for information by weight. With such a history so damaging to so many people and with the aim of preventing them from being repeated in the future, the Socialists have decided to bring this initiative to this Parliament for the consideration of all of you. An initiative that is based on three more reasonings. The first is the conviction that it is dealing with a collective problem which, in one way or another, affects the majority of citizens. The second, because semi-public or private financial institutions are subject to laws made by public institutions (this Parliament, among others), therefore, made from politics, whose functioning and results involve us and require us to observe the failures and problems that they generate, in order to correct them for the benefit of the public interest. The third, because, seen and suffered what was seen and suffered in the public invoice to assist and rescue a large part of the financial institutions, seen and suffered what is hard for us to reflocate to a large part of the financial sector, is social justice that also serves the citizen's interest. If national and international policy has emerged in defence of the financial sector, with multi-million dollar economic aid, transferring its cost to all citizens without exception and giving it a much higher strategic character than that of health, education, employment or social policies, it will well be that autonomous policy comes out in defence of people within the sphere of our competence. Ultimately, consumer protection must be guaranteed by laws and by consumer and supervisory bodies. Financial education provides tools for consumers to make better decisions, but does not replace or supplement users' rights and the proper regulation of the financial system. While financial institutions are developing a strategy to ensure that the responsibility for non-abuse rests with the consumer, who is under an obligation to be prepared to know what he is hiring, the reality is that the relationship between the financial institution and the consumer is profoundly unequal. Consumers are almost always offered pre-established contracts only by the financial institution, without any margin of negotiation, so the relationship becomes a mere adherence to the terms and conditions set by the institution. Surely, in order to mediate, intervene and resolve in favour of transparency and balance between banks and banks and users, it will be necessary to legislate more, establish more controls and punish abuses more forcefully. We must also make more use of the public tools that already exist on this route. In Euskadi we have a Basque Consumer Institute, Kontsumobide, an institute to protect citizens in economic transactions through information, training and protection of consumers and users from the purchase of products and services. Kontsumobide is prepared and equipped to set instruments and procedures that allow people to better choose the products and services most suited to their needs and requirements. Undoubtedly, in the ranking of need for information, training and protection are first and foremost the products and services of financial institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is more than reasonable for Kontsumobide to intervene in this scenario. The interest that this initiative has aroused in this House is clear. Vasco and Bildu Nationalist Party have tabled amendments, which, while providing nuances and some new aspect, at the core of our initiative show quite coincident with the objective. Finally, we have made a compromise with the Basque Nationalist Party – which I hope it will have more support – which opens up the deadline for Kontsumobide's work to be presented to this House (it expands it a bit) and which also opens the door to collaboration with Euskadi's consumer associations and information with other comparative works. I therefore hope that from now on Basque citizenship, users of services and financial products will be able to have more protection, more defence, more information and more training so that the transaction with these products and services is on an equal footing and knowing what is being contracted, and not with a number of abnormal situations, as has been the case in recent years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u122	Thank you, Mr Price. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. López de Munna has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u123	Good afternoon. We can say that the discussion we have on our table today is really interesting. We shall be reminded of a proposition already discussed and accepted about financial products. In this proposal it was required that the people should have more detailed information about these products; that is to say, to place them in the service of the people before they speculated on the cost of profit, profit, invest, and their savings. And it is that, as I say, it was the happy day of March 13, 2014, and I say happy because it was an initiative that presented this same parliamentarian and that ultimately counted on the support of the rest of the groups, which had not happened until then and that it might be difficult for it to happen again. The fourth point of the approved proposal read as follows: "The Basque Parliament urges Kontsumobide to draw up a list of the complaints received at Kontsumobide concerning fraudulent practices that the financial system has carried out and to forward it to this Parliament, and to link with consumer associations a system of advice on the different financial products that will enable, before contracting them, the exact knowledge of what they are going to acquire and the benefits and risks faced by the customer." So, if we go right now to the amendment before us, to the trans-amendment, what we can see is that, on the one hand, the first of the points only brings back – and it seems to us something interesting, we do not take value from it – that the comparison of products and services should be brought to this Parliament, which before was simply left in Kontsumobide. And, on the other hand, what would be the contribution of the Basque Nationalist Party already said and was already approved on March 3, 2014, with which there is nothing new. While we could enter into a rather interesting and vehemently debate about bank speculation, today may not be the day to denounce the commercial banking sector and say that they are the cause of misery, war, hardship, etc. It is clear that if there is an economic sector that has its hands stained in its activity, that is that of commercial banking. We agree on that. Wearers and scavengers who today govern the political designs of the world, of Europe and of Euskal Herria and for whom little or nothing matters these institutions or any other. They are created above the peoples, they express to the working class, they expoliate countries, they finance wars, they deposit democratic governments and, ultimately, they rule a lot. But they send a lot because they have been left behind and because they have been allowed to send a lot. Our proposal aims at information, information that is very important in our opinion. We ask that the banks tell us what they are going to invest our money in in order to be able to pay the interest: arms, evictions, drowning countries enriching with their debt, financing companies that plunder the wealth of other peoples, financially supporting coups of state to favor governments of satraps and corrupts. That's what we want them to tell us, where they get their benefits. We imagine that they would not be so clear if they were to tell us, but, nevertheless, international organizations have done so and have said so, at least in relation to the financing that the main banks of the Spanish State are making of arms companies. Some data I'd like to give you are: All banks in the Spanish differential had investments in arms production in 2012 and significantly increased their participation in 2013. BBVA, with €3.7 billion accumulated in loans to arms companies, and Banco Santander, with around 1,700, head the ranking of the Spanish state's armed bank. The opacity in the accounts of the IBEX 35 companies blurs the real investment of the bank in the disputed weapons. Providing financing to the war industry is not the only breach of corporate social responsibility by large banks: the eight entities accumulate 142 companies in tax havens. This is not what I say, setem says in his report. This is the reality of the bankers and the funds of investments. But we can go beyond the report Sever has made. Y leo Literal: "This report analyses in detail the economic and financial relations between the Spanish banking groups (including their subsidiaries) and the arms producers at issue since January 2006. On the basis of a list drawn up by the Banco de España, they have carried out, in this case Setem, "an analysis of the 80 banking groups based in the Spanish State (including their subsidiaries in the country and abroad). "The research has focused on the 30 major companies whose involvement and participation in the production and maintenance of controversial weapons is known," and when I talk about controversial weapons, they are "group munitions, nuclear weapons, anti-personnel mines, depleted uranium weapons, biological and chemical weapons." And he goes on to say: "We have analyzed and identified all the shares and bonds of the 30 controversial arms producers that are currently in the hands of investment funds managed by Spanish banks and their subsidiaries. "We have also analysed the participation of Spanish banks in the issuance of shares and bonds by these companies since January 2006. Finally, we have identified all the loans that Spanish banks have granted to companies on their list since January 2006." And I keep reading literally: "We have identified 14 Spanish banks that have participated in the financing of a total of 19 controversial arms producers." It must be remembered, and I repeat, that the weapons at issue are defined as cluster munitions, anti-personnel mines, landmines, depleted uranium weapons, nuclear weapons, biological weapons and chemical weapons. The conclusions that emerge from that report, and which I do not say, are: "The Spanish bank that maintains the largest financing activity of controversial arms producers is BBVA. The investment funds managed by BBVA have shares of 12 companies and bonds of two companies. BBVA has provided loans to eight companies since early 2006 and has helped three companies issue bonds. It has also helped a company to issue shares." Second conclusion: "The Spanish bank that holds the second place in financing controversial arms producers is Santander, whose investment funds own 13 companies' shares. Santander has granted loans to seven companies and has helped three companies to issue bonds." The third conclusion: "Of the other Spanish banks, only one has granted a loan to a producer of disputed weapons: Bankia granted a loan to Larsen&Toubro". The fourth and final conclusion: "Other Spanish banks whose investment funds own shares of controversial arms producers are Bankia, Banco Madrid, Banca March, Banco Popular, Banco Sabadell, Bankinter, CataloniaCaixa, Finanduero, Ibercaja and Mapfre. Bankia is the most important of them all, as their investment funds own shares of eight different producers of controversial weapons. The next is the Sabadell Bank, with shares in seven weapons producers." And this is where the interests come from. Because, apart from the risks and interests that a financial product may have, we believe, at least since Euskal Herria Bildu, that it is important to give the citizen this information. And we could have done that, and I do not think that in this proposal that has been presented to us by the Socialist Party of Euskadi this supplement that we intended to add since Euskal Herria Bildu could not be accepted. And we sincerely believe that it was more important for everyone here to explain why they could not accept that this point can be clarified and be present in the report you are asking for. These are the data that has been published, due to a real investigation into the investments of financial institutions. In our opinion, it's important to let them know. I mean, we need people to know where speculation comes from. We believe that it is important to know each other, to let the citizen know where they get the benefits of speculation. Let us know that there are ethical financial institutions, and I am talking, for example, about Triodos and Fiare, representatives of ethical banking, or at least more ethical banking than these big banks and boxes. And that is why we must know, compare and be free to choose if we want to finance with our money the trophies of those bankers. The amendment that has been fucked stays where we were, stays on what was already tested on March 13, 2014. I understand that the Basque Nationalist Party does not want to go in and attack the banks, perhaps through electoralism. It is due to its voters and the interests of its voters, the bankers. We do not understand that other groups who claim to be progressive do not enter into an agreement with us and with us. The agreement for the agreement is of no use; agreements with content, even if lost by vote, pave the way for change. Today you stay behind again and we continue where in March 2014.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u124	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u125	Mme. President, Congressmen, good evening to all of you. To start with, I don't know, I'm here to do electoral, because all the bankers in Euskadi, who are about five, are going to vote for us, and therefore I've come here to get those five votes. You don't do electoralism, because you're not thinking about the million and a half of bankers and bankers. Instead, five bankers for us is fundamental. We're out there. For starters, we come to defend consumers, of course; we are here, among other things, for that. And not because they are voters, but because they are people and are also consumers. Mr Prieto has already explained to you that we have reached a compromise and, therefore, I will not abound in it. However, I do believe that it is worth clarifying some things, I insist, since I am a strong supporter of the transaction to which we have come. And it is that one of the missions of Kontsumobide is to carry out studies, promote, to evaluate the dynamics of consumption, to fix the instruments, etc. The problem is that in this legislature any parliamentary group takes that phrase, puts it in a blank sheet with the logo of the corresponding parliamentary group and adds "do a study to Kontsumobide". Already this month we have spoken of gasoline, of minced meat; we have the mortadela with olives, the chóped... We can make a catalogue of studies and have Kontsumobide permanently stressed with all the technicians studying this range of concepts. And not only that, but it also talks about promoting. That is why we have entered into the transaction; to promote is to study not directly, but through others. And then we think that the dynamics of consumption is to tell the citizen, the consumer, the catalogue of things and prices that there are; the dynamics of consumption is something much broader than that, which is not solved by that catalogue, which we do not even know how many citizens it can reach. However, let it be done. Let it be done. All this is an inexhaustible source of data. We can also do a study on boxer shorts that on Kennebec potato in all the Basque overseas and bring that data, but, I insist, we will not get much. Today we have banking products and services in all the financial institutions operating in Euskadi. And surely with continuity, that things are changing, they are evolving; they change prices, they change profits. Just one question. I insist, we are going to do it and we have asked it to be done, but I would like us to reflect on the future about this type of study that we are in charge of. Because, with this, are we really helping the citizens of Euskadi? Do we really help you with these studies? In 2014, it was mentioned here, a GNP was approved requiring Kontsumobide – to contextualize things, eh! – to provide financial advice to Basque consumers. Indeed, it was done. Kontsumobide was sent the document and Kontsumobide was put to work, as always. As he was unable to initially address that task with his own resources, he contracted with UPV a financial advisory service. It was posted on the Kontsumobide website and on other sites, and 19 people were interviewed. Of the 19 people who were in person to be advised... 11 were relatively simple and Kontsumobide's own staff solved them; the other eight were diverted to the UPV. Upon completion of the consultations of the eight, UPV met with Kontsumobide and explained to them that, rather than financial advice, it had been fiscal advice. Conclusion: The plenary of this Parliament, in its sovereignty, took a decision to entrust Kontsumobide with an advisory study that turned into spending money to advise eight Basque citizens on their taxes. Because in the background, on banking issues, if last year 7,600 queries were made in Euskadi in Kontsumobide on different consumption issues, only 6.8% were made from banks and boxes. If we go to the claims, out of a total of 10,000 claims (9,996 exactly) 695 (i.e. not 7 per cent) were bank and cash claims; and, in particular, 17 per cent of them were ground claims. And if we go to the top, to the sanctioning files, 160 were opened, of which 15 (9 %) were banks and boxes. This is the dimension of the problem of concern for banks and banks in the Basques. And it's that, besides, and that's why I appreciate it being accepted in the transaction, there's a lot of information. The same thing that happened in the debate we had not long ago about gasoline, there is comprehensive information on websites on the Internet. Exhaustive and reliable. In fact, the most powerful is Adicae, which has also been cited here, a consumer association; it has a powerful web, a financial comparator. But there are the expansion website, the bankimia website, the search engine, comparative banking.com, rankia.com, savings.com, bankimia.com. They have all the.com, the.net, the.org and the.eu that they want, are there and are updated, at a zero cost to the Basque citizens. That is why we have also negotiated the possibility that Kontsumobide can do so, if not directly, through a consumer association. In fact, this year has just been signed (I think last week; if not, this week) with the EKA consumer association the follow-up study of the analysis of all the judgments handed down at the CAV in 2014 and 2015 on financial matters. And with the association EKE it has been agreed the realization of the study that today we are asking here, the comparative analysis of offers of services and products that offer banks and boxes, with prices and conditions. If we've negotiated it, it's to show paths that go beyond ordering jobs to Kontsumobide. And we hope, and that is why I insist on the subject, that they are ways to choose in the future. To conclude, I will refer very briefly, because it is not worth much, to the complex request on the use of profits, places of investment. Let's see, they could start running all of Kontsumobide's or the companies we hire, like crazy, or we can buy each one of the shares from each of the banks and attend the general shareholders' meeting and ask there. It's another possibility, probably cheaper, and we'd also benefit from buying stock. Because, why don't we ask a bathing mason or a newsstand who sells porn magazines what benefits he has, where he invests those benefits, what he uses those benefits for, and how much he earns every time he sells a magazine or makes a bathroom? It is also said which sectors are being invested. Why don't we tell him? Because besides, when you sell six porn magazines, if you make some money, you put it in the bank, and where's that bank's money going? Sure, what bank did you put him in? At the Sabadell. Buf!, that hand grenade purchase, you're sorry, I'm not going to buy you porn magazines. We can go around the system until we've exhausted it. If I can tell you, in any case, it has been hard for me to understand some things about some amendment, and it is that, in principle, I do not get it. Somewhere I think it's misexpressed. I have commented this morning with Mr López de Munain, or I may have lost agility in Stalinism and five-year plans. Maybe. It may also happen to me, as Eduardo Galeano said, that "I fell out of the world and I don't know where to go." But ultimately, if we want to defend the citizens, we want to inform them, we want to take advantage of the multiple information that circulates around there, without obstructing the technical services of Kontsumobide, because defending the citizens is also trying to manage public resources as efficiently and with the most economical methods possible. And we also agree to use consumer associations to do this kind of study. On other topics, I insist, I prefer not to follow, which – as Tom Clancy has already said – "if you can control information, you can control people", which is what I think many like: rather than control information, they want to control people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u126	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing to the non-correcting teams, Mistto, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u127	Yeah. Only to say that I will vote in favour of the transactional.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u128	All right, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President. I too very briefly, because after listening to the brilliant speeches of Mr Prieto and Mr Telleria, they have convinced us of the goodness of the compromise amendment to which they have come. And, as it could not be otherwise, we too are in favour of consumers, even if we are in an electoral period and neither bankers nor consumers are going to vote for us. Having said that, I just want to say one thing. There are sometimes very well-intentioned initiatives that can get the opposite, and I will see if I can explain myself. It is very good that Kontsumobide establishes a ranking of which are the financial products and the cheapest financial entity that produces them at that particular time, and to find that, the day after being published on the page of Kontsumobide, that bank that is in the first ranking goes up, and it is no longer the same. And then the consumer is fooled by the page of Kontsumobide or whoever it is to that financial entity and it turns out that the best at that time is already the last. So, I almost prefer it not to be Kontsumobide, as a public body that could be called upon to make perhaps misleading advertising of certain financial products of certain entities, which not only banks produce such financial products: there are many more entities that do so, such as insurance companies and even cooperatives. So, when we're talking about this and we're talking about what's the best formula for consumers to be more protected, we also need to be careful. Perhaps, thinking that we are protecting them, we are actually deceiving them, or we are contributing to the deception of those banks so bad that we want to prevent them from causing the deterioration of the consumer economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u130	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing on the answers, Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u131	President. Firstly, I would like to thank the Group of the European People's Party and the Joint UPyD Group for their support for the amendment we have negotiated with the Basque Nationalist Party. And from there, clarify or point out some things that seem important to me. This is an initiative that is in line with the desire to apply transparency in a sector that is not just any sector, that is not another sector of society, that is not another sector of the economy. It is a fundamental sector for the development of the society in which we live. In my initial speech, I said that from national and international policy it has been given much more support and more economic use to this sector than to health, rather than to education, than to social policies, than even to employment. This is a reality of the market economy society in which we live. Therefore, with this reflection, it is clear that we are not facing any sector, but we are facing a sector that is crucial for the development of personal autonomy, family autonomy, the ability to undertake, to set up businesses, to have access to goods and services. We're talking about something that sometimes, as you're often told, mortgages you all your life. Therefore, we are not talking about the chóped nor are we talking about the olive, nor the boxer shorts. We are not talking about any triviality or frivolity. We are talking about something that, at least, has led me as a Member of this Parliament to welcome citizens who have come with eviction problems, toxic product problems, problems of abuse of confidence, problems of ground clauses. That is, with problems that have led them to ruin, that have led them to property loss, that they did not know what risk they were taking when they acquired a certain product, that has led them to stay on the street, that has led them to be unemployed. And it seems to me that this has enough seriousness, even enough dramatism, enough penalty to treat it with the fineness that a matter of these characteristics needs. We are not faced with any problem, we are not faced with a problem of little importance or which should not merit the attention of this House. We are facing a very serious problem. We are faced with a problem where the relationship between the user and the financial institutions is of tremendous inequality, because most people who buy products do not know the scope of these products, because in addition, as I said initially, they almost always have to adhere to what the financial institution puts on the table. And in view of that, a great exercise of transparency must be made, a great exercise of protection, of training, of help to those who are using these products, which are consumers. In that regard, this initiative, an initiative that, if it has a history, as I have also pointed out in my initial presentation, has not been sufficiently comprehensive. And that is why we have wanted to go a step further and we have wanted to propose that Kontsumobide bring us to this House, within a specific time frame, a job in which we can see what it does in that protection, in that information and in that help to users when they use the products and services of financial institutions. I have previously given a revealing account of the sector that is taking the protests, the claims in the commercial relationship between the client and the financial entity, and it is the banking sector; moreover, in a shocking way, with spectacular growth. We have that problem. And in defence of the public interest, in defence of users, and also because we have an obligation also to legislate in this sector (because it is also a competence of this Basque Parliament, of the laws that this Basque Parliament makes), we have an obligation to involve ourselves in these problems and to try to care for them. I have had no problem in that we could add more, in that we could add that banks and boxes would say where their profits come from and in what they apply their profits. That's fine with me, but that's a matter that didn't require a majority. I have dealt with it, Mr López de Munain knows that I have looked to see how the correlation of forces was in order to be able to approve this, and, in the end, what the different groups were saying to me led me to the conclusion that we could have a debate, as many times in this Parliament, so as not to conclude at all. And it seems to me that it is a frustrating thing for us to come here to discuss and not come to resolve, not to come forward, even if it is minimally, even today less than one would like, but something more than we already had. That is why I have made some pragmatism in this compromise proposal that I have agreed with the Basque Nationalist Party. Today we could take a twist on this, what we brought here...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u132	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u133	I'm done right now. ...the way we brought him here, and yet going beyond that led us to leave without anything and I preferred this matter to be resolved with something concrete. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u134	Thank you, Mr Price. Unite the EH team as representative. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u135	Mr Prieto, I agree with the reflection you have made in your second speech, probably in 70% of things. The problem is that if what was already approved at that time has not progressed, it is because there has been no will on the part of the Government. And in this case Kontsumobide did not really do what was asked of him in this Parliament. He did something else, which was probably what they were willing to do, but he didn't do anything else. Nor, for example, were all the activities they had carried out, all the complaints that had been made and the penalties imposed on the banks publicized. Thus, this non-law proposal remains unenforced and unfulfilled. Why? Because there is no political will to do so. That's the biggest problem. It doesn't take care of anything, but it doesn't take care of it because the Basque Nationalist Party doesn't want it to take care of anything that goes against the interests of the banks. And I, Mr. Telleria, don't know what your level of porn magazine consumption will be and whether you can make your kiosk so extremely rich that you can invest in a stock exchange or any financial product. But I'll tell you what. What was raised, so that you can understand it well, is that, if from the sales of those magazines you get a profit, you get to the bank (Santander, for example; if you want to quote it, I quote it too) and it says: "I'm going to invest it in any other investment fund," they say: "Eye, be careful, because with this investment fund you are investing in this and this company that are dedicated to making weapons." Would it not seem logical to you, would it not seem ethical that this information can be given to those people who are going to invest our savings in it? That is the crux of the matter. That's what you can ask and you should ask the banks. Ethical reasoning. Now, if you want to ridicule the speech, saying: "And could you not also ask any other economic activity to present us what they are going to do or where they have reaped their benefits?". Tell me another economic activity that finances arms companies. Tell me. But get into the debate. Don't be ridiculous, get in the debate. You say to me, "No, because we speak for the five bankers." No, the problem is that you don't talk against banks. Not that they talk to the five bankers; the problem is that you are not a danger to the banks, but the banks are a danger to the citizens. And you, in the end, who are you defending with your argument? The interests of those who unravel. The interests of those who earn money through wars, through external debt, through expolies, through military coups in democratic countries. That's what you're defending. And in the end you ended up quoting, to whom? If I haven't heard you wrong, Tom Clancy. And above to use a phrase from Tom Clancy to refer to the group of Euskal Herria Bildu, which some want to make use of the information because the information is power. If it's the same person, if I've listened to you correctly, you'll know that Tom Clancy is a declared right-wing ultra-rightist, and also a weapons defender. With this, surely today Tom Clancy would be more with you than with the group of Euskal Herria Bildu. Today I would absolutely agree with what you stand for and with what you are willing to demand or not from banks that continue to generate wars. Because ethics is what is missed in this House as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u136	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u137	Thank you. I have not come here today to talk about evictions or other things that banks can do. We have come to talk about whether Kontsumobide is doing a study on the services and products that banks give or don't. And someone else, Bildu in particular, put in his amendment the intention to talk about profits, whether they invest in weapons or what banks, or insurance companies, or automobile companies or a multinational, have to invest in, gives me the same thing. We didn't come here to talk about it. If we'd come here to talk about it, I'd be talking about it. However, since you like Varufakis so much – someone who admires you or anyone who has at least brought your admiration here – he explained to us last week, because here also came the rescue of the banks that cost us a pastel – it is true, and surely in an unfair way, I have no doubt – he said that less evil that the banks had been rescued and that people, families, companies had been saved. Did he say it or didn't he say it? Yes, he did. I heard him. Of course, they translated it; he spoke in Greek and perhaps the one who translated was deceiving us, but that's what he said. And I don't mean by this that we're in favor of the banks. We are not in favour of banks, nor are we against them; they are part of the economic system in which we all live. By the way, banks are also being run around in some way, and nowadays every citizen who wants to make the minimum investment of 6,000 euros is forced to do a fairly complex test, they are subject to a series of questions, he has to sign them, if he knows where he's going, if he doesn't know where he's going. I mean, yes, something has progressed, a lot has progressed, I understand, so that now no one can say that they have made an investment and did not know what they were doing. That, in principle. Another thing is what they can do. And here I have come to try to explain what it is worth, that we do the study, but that, please, we defend Basque citizens and consumers in other ways as well. For example, I insist on web pages, that there are large objective and neutral comparators; helpmycash.com compares 2,140 products from 230 companies. That's where we have some basic, very important information. I'm just here to talk about it. The rest of us can discuss it in another context. And then Tom Clancy. I know Tom Clancy. I don't know him in person, I know what he has written; I have no interest in knowing him. And you're telling me you're closer to me because you're from the far right? I don't know, because you, for example, with so much obsession with control and information, want to put us cameras in the txintxilikaris, also known as telebasura... Doesn't it seem to you that intent to control up to what garbage bag and at what time I put an obsession with information a little sick and worrying? No more. In any case, to be free, we don't need Kontsumobide at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u138	Thank you, Mr. Tellegio. Misto-UPyD shouldn't talk. Representatives from the population team... Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Middle Amendment signed by the Basque Socialists and Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 69; the 7th, the 10th; the contrary, 0; the white, 1; the Absencesion, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-07.u139	The central correction has been approved. Since the list of subjects has been exhausted, I look upon the whole meeting as an end. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and forty.
