ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "The question is, "The question is, that the members of the staff of the U.S.A.R.R.A.R.R.R.R.A.R.R.R.R.A.R.R.A.R.R.R.A.R.R.A.R.R.A.R.R.R.A.R.R.A.A.R.R.R.A.A.R.R.A.S.A.S.A.S.S.S.A.A.S.S.A.A.S.A. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. We ask the Chief Minister of Toña, "What are you doing? The staff of the profession had connected the days of strike from March 2013 to March 2015, and they had announced more of the day's strike for the 21st May. We were entirely concerned about this situation, because it had the right effect on people who are at last unemployed, and who are having a bad time. So we were glad to find out that the strike was disinfected. We know that the Basque Government has kept open all avenues of negotiation and mediation with the representatives of the workers of Lanbide, and we understand that they will have had their weight in the decision to devoke the aforementioned strikes. That is why we want to know what agreements they have reached, and what consequences they have for Lanbide's proper functioning. In addition, the department had another open front with the workers of the teleassistance service, who also called strikes from January to April of this year, and had announced more days of unemployment that, fortunately, have been called off last week. We are glad to be aware of the strike devocatory, because in this case it also affects people of great vulnerability, among which are older people. Since the service service service in 2011 has been passed from the forum to the Eusk0, the workers have been accused of various problems in the parliament. An important basis of the problem has been the conditions of the workers, the changes of management. They've also been proclaiming their own conviction for telehelp service. In this case, I'm sure you've been working for the service, you've been assigned to the company and the employees, you know, to continue your best help services and work conditions as best you can. Finally, we'd like to inform you, sir, of the meeting and agreement you've had around the service of teleportation as far as possible. And in advance we thank you for the explanation you will give, and for the work of the intermediary you are making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. In reply, Mr. Toña has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u3	President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. It's good to cancel the job call. These are services that serve men and professions, as well as the axis of our privilege and beauty. We can find the reason why we have abandoned the calling of labor in negotiations, intermediary, and commitments to each other. In fact, the good will to get to the agreements has been essential. Besides the final issue and the agreement which will be obtained, what we desire to praise is to speak and negotiate. I want to insist on talking, negotiating, working, and doing what she has to do. In the case of tele-assistance, currently the unemployment is effectively deconvoked, because at the various meetings held, and finally on 19 May, with the mediation of the Department of Employment and Social Policy, minimum agreements were reached that favored the deconvocation of such unemployment. The commitment entered into, then ratified by the Workers' Assembly, affects relevant issues in all working conditions, such as pay, days, safety, health, staff stability and some other issues. In any case, there are still issues to be agreed that will be addressed by the parties within the Labour Relations Council, on the other hand a right breast to raise such conflicts and try to resolve them. Lanbide is a key instrument in the implementation of employment policies and a more than relevant element in promoting the social cohesion of our society. For this reason, during the whole parliamentary term – I would like to highlight it – representatives of this government have held numerous meetings with the representatives of the workers to design and equip Lanbide with a necessary employment relationship that would make this autonomous body an effective instrument in the management of active employment policies. The talks and contacts that have been held before and after the days of unemployment have never renounced dialogue and negotiation at any time. And so, at the last of the meetings held on 18 May, following a meeting convened to talk about salaries, levels of valuation, functioning, spatial distribution of the staff and other issues, as a result of which the power stations deconvoked the planned stoppages. But I would like to stress that this vocation of listening, dialogue and meeting that is being held by the Basque Government in the face of the various conflicts or problems that arise is not an issue that affects these two issues, but an issue that affects all members of the Government in our willingness to dialogue, negotiate and reach agreements that are possible in conflicts that are or may be raised in the field of administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u4	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Bel-Brit Tree Group, made to the chief physician of Education, Language Policy, and Cultural, concerning the evangelisation of the third-rate students of the College of Education." Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u5	Good morning, everyone. On April 24th, we explained to you the attitude against the third-rate trial in the First Education, and to show you that the reasons were superfluous. They do it because Lomc sets it up, there's no pedagogical reason, and it's bad for our education system. We also told you that most of the educationmakers don't agree with your intention, but that they didn't agree with those tests and don't agree with Lomce. That's how it was expressed by the foundies of the Education Plaforms, most unions, EHIGEs, apprentices, creation. They made a call for the plane. In secret, you've been hiding information, and yet the families of several schools of three countries, with the protection of the school units, have decided to plan the test. Their children will not participate in these tests. They have our full support. We agree with the decision they made, because we have to face Lomce among all of us. That's why we'd like to know what the Board of Education, the Chief of Staff, will do after we know what he's going to do after he's made these decisions to force them to do or protect them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. In reply, Mrs. Uriart, who's a local representative, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u7	The President of the legislature, the President, the chief of the Department, the members of the legislature, good day. Mrs. Arburdo, you should know that you are mixing people with your discourses and actions, and that this attitude is quite contrary to our goal. Our goal is not only to protect and to improve the educational system, but to protect our students and families. The process of evaluation we're doing right now has nothing to do with rebalds, it has nothing to do with Lomce, but with the novel Hecite and the improvement of the education system. And this must be made perfectly clear, though some of them have all their efforts to explain the contrary message to the schools. The test we're doing is a pilot's test of evagnostic evaluation at the third grade of the first school. We're trying that pilot together with the schools, and we'll get the necessary information to design the diagnosis of the next year's evaluation, and we'll go straight to schools and do the same with them as we've always done. The objective is clear: to analyze and improve our educational system. You, meanwhile, can continue to spare your strength in hindering our work and clouding our work. We prefer to continue working in order to improve our educational system. We therefore insist on the importance of these assessments, which, without having any effect on the student's academic record, are of great help in the process of continuous improvement of our educational system. We will therefore continue with the established process and appeal to the responsibility of the centres and families. They are not an advance of the disabled, contrary to what is being passed on to families. This councillor and this Government are against the invalids and the Lomce, and I have always said so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u9	Mrs. Department Chief, you mean all these operators (E.H.I.H.I.E.G.E.E., academics, Board of Education, unions... SOCRATES: And are we to say, that the decisions which are being made and the work they are doing, and the deliberations which we have made of them? I think you're making a big mistake saying that. I don't think they'll understand that from your mouth that way. However, you say this has nothing to do with reservations, and it's not true what you say is true. That it has nothing to do with Lomce. That's not true, either. There is no other reason why these proofs should be made, no pedagogical reason. These tests haven't been tried in the third grade so far, they've been in another way. These tests are based on an evaluation system, not on isolated tests. Lomc, or Heziber, are placed within the external system, which puts them in, there is nothing else. You're fulfilling what Lomc says and that's how most of the educationmakers and families have understood it. And that's why every day the lists are getting longer. During these days, first of all, learning was a scholar in Ordria, the name of Gaste, the Gueruna, Samanego, the Arquabelle, the Chief of Sallus, the Barkaldo, Portugal, the Blessed, the Setato, the Holy One... It's a long list, and it'll still be longer in the next few days. Your object was to prevent family decisions, to prevent protest and opposition, and that's why at the last moment you've been reporting schools and families. But you're in vain and you're wrong. You're wrong, because you're losing a great deal of opportunity, and you're asking yourself, when you're under the protection of the majority, how much it takes you to pass them to Lomce to face them. Unfortunately, you've gone the wrong way, even this time. And you have not answered me, but I know at last what you will answer me, what you intend to do with families and students who do not participate in the trial these days. And we have it clear: We'll continue to face Lomce.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u11	Mrs. Arroy, as you know, we're going through the year 2009 of the evagnostic evaluation, and all the educationmakers are satisfied with this evaluation, because they know very well that it's absolutely necessary to continue the improvement of our education system. In addition, this evaluation of our next year at the third grade corresponds to the project of the New Hezi new 2020 plan and the decree of the curriculum. It is contained in it, and you participated in the passage of the decree, like all other operators. Then you were able to contribute a great deal, and, in fact, you made various contributions. Do you remember what you said about the diagnostic evaluation we plan in the third grade? Nothing, nothing. I have your contributions here, and there's no mention of evaluation. In accordance with this, I remember that the contribution of public operators was for the diagnosis of evaluation, if used for improvement. And now you're doing your political campaign against the evacuation, the families mixing up, giving the wrong information according to your interests. Mrs Arrondo, now that we are at a time of reflection, looking at what has been done right and what has been done wrong, perhaps the political use that is being made of this point should also be a source of reflection on your part. In any case, this department will continue with the previously established process: once the testing phase is completed, the resulting information will be analyzed and the diagnostic evaluation of the next course will be designed, in collaboration with the centers themselves. The time of contribution is over. Now it's time to develop and work for the students in a responsible way. And I repeat: Don't confuse the families, don't use the students.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the Medical Department, Blanca Roncal Azanza Basque Sozialists, the treatment of sick people with hepatatitis." Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u13	Mr. President, members of the legislature, President, Councilman, good morning to all. Counselor, sometimes I agree with you, we agree. I mean, we're both doctors, we both know direct health care to patients, and we've both had the opportunity to manage health. That is why I agree with you when you say that you will ensure that all hepatitis C patients will be treated according to clinical criteria, allowing digestive and infectious diseases specialists to determine that treatment. That's what you said last March in an interview that's on the official government website, but what you're doing two months later is not that: it doesn't guarantee everyone treatment with the modern and effective drugs available, nor does it follow the clinical criteria. Health management criteria are followed. This is what you said on May 14th, to reply to patients who were demanding that they be treated as in the rest of the autonomous communities. According to your own explanations, those who are at the most advanced stage of the disease are now being treated, what you call F4, but, as the affected themselves tell us, not even the entire group of the most serious patients is receiving treatment. Therefore, they criticize you who have made a decision neither clinical nor – as you say – economic, but purely clinical management, in order not to apply these treatments to patients, as I say, with these available treatments, who cure the sick and prevent the sick from getting worse and having to continue in pharmacological treatment. What's going on? Don't you have money? That is why – as I say – from the agreement between what you say and the disagreement with what you do, I ask you when you will implement the recommendations approved by this same government in the Interterritorial Council to attend to all patients with hepatitis C.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. In reply, Mr. Darpón is a representative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. President, good morning to all of you. Roncal andrea, first of all I want to send a message of solidarity and tranquillity to all people with hepatitis C in Euskadi, and, in order to move this debate away from political use, say loud and clear that from the Department of Health and from Osakidetza we will continue to address this disease as a health problem. We will continue to look after the people concerned, and also the public health system as a whole. Osakidetza has treated and treated adequately all people who suffer from any disease, and patients with chronic hepatitis C virus liver disease as well. In addition, Osakidetza has incorporated all available medicines into the health system. Membership hasn't left out the people who have the hepatitis C illness. As we've always done, we're dealing with the most recent drugs and the best patients. I mean, Mrs. Roncal, the society of euscals must know clearly and clearly. Please don't use people's suffering to make the government bitter. With regard to the strategy of recommendations agreed at the Inter-Territorial Council to care for patients with hepatitis C that you have recalled, I will tell you that, as you know, from the beginning we agree with the clinical criteria. With everyone, as a whole. These same criteria are being applied: clinical indications, prioritization based on fibrosis (this humble counselor has not invented anything of F4, F3, F2, F1, F0; as you know, it is an international classification), drugs, and also the deadlines defined to treat all patients. In accordance with these instructions, we work in order to treat all the sick, to prefer the high degree of fibrosis to those who are in the greatest danger of being in trouble. You will probably also be aware that today the Ministry of Health has not released any economic memory of the strategy, despite Minister Alonso's commitment already more than two months ago to launch a special funding plan. Nor is any detail known of the agreements reached between the ministry and the pharmaceutical industry. Both aspects of great importance for the management and sustainability of our public health system. Despite this, all patients are being treated on a step-by-step basis in Euskadi, and we are also paying for the treatments provided through the budget of the Basque Government: EUR 20 million, Mrs Roncal. As you can see, I don't lack a budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u16	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u17	Counselor, I will begin by telling you that hepatitis C patients do not want your solidarity; they want to be cured. They want you to give them the treatment they demand, and to attend not only to the most serious, but to attend to the least serious, to prevent them from getting worse and dying, as is being done in the rest of the autonomous communities. I admit, of course, that you have a different strategy. I disagreed, but it's your competition, and you do what you think is appropriate. What I do not admit is that he will say that he is going to do something that he does not do, because then it is when Parliament enters, and the responsibility of parliamentarians to control his task. Because his department joined all the health recommendations that were made at the Inter-Territorial Council, but his way of implementing it is absolutely divergent from the rest of the autonomous communities. We're in line, as the affected themselves tell us. Look at you, all the autonomous communities treat the least serious, those who are a little more serious and those who are very serious. And here to the most serious, not everyone. Because, of course, you say that stepwise. What the hell is that? What's that? And on top of that you were allowed to criticize the sick for their political ideology. The last thing we could have expected from a counselor is that, instead of receiving a sick person and seeing only a sick person, he sees an ideologically different competitor. Counselor, you weren't lucky at that. Anyway, what we're telling you again is that you have a responsibility to the sick, and we all expect you to fulfill it. Not only with the very serious ones; with all the others too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u19	Mrs Roncal, we are not going to allow you to question the management this government is carrying out to address the treatment of hepatitis C or any other disease. Any way is whale. In fact, you know that the entire eupscal society is making a great effort to face this matter, whether in the field of matter or in the means of money. We are faced with good news: a serious disease, hepatitis C, has a new and more effective treatment that will benefit sick people. Osakidetza and its professionals are giving the right response, which is treatment step by step. In Osakidetza it is treated as a priority; it is not like in the fishery, that the first one who arrives takes the number. Of course, we are not facing a political problem. Again, all patients affected by chronic hepatitis C virus are to be treated in Euskadi, and future funding and sustainability of the public health system are not to be put at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u20	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask questions, the parliamentary members of Laura Garrido Knörr of the Popula team made to the head physician of the Medical Department, about giving new treatments to patients in Hepatitis." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, chief physician, head physician of health. The truth is that we do not understand, Mr. Counsellor, what is happening with this issue, and where the problem is. Because you in this rostrum say the problem is not economic... I would, of course, like you to clarify to the People's Group where the problem is. Look, the reality is that patients affected by hepatitis C in Euskadi are being discriminated against in relation to patients in other autonomous communities. In Euskadi they are not being administered... [[Shouts are heard among the guests]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u22	Get out! Please. Please. Please. Out. Please. [[Pause]] Lady Garrido, when you want to start...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u23	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. He said that this Government is clearly discriminating against those affected by hepatitis C in Euskadi against patients from other autonomous communities. In Euskadi the reality is that in many cases new treatments are not being given to patients who are in the most advanced phase, in F4 – in that phase where they are supposed to be giving these treatments throughout this year – and those qualified as F2 and F3 have to wait at least until 2016, at best, which is not happening in other autonomous communities. Hepatitis C patients in Euskadi are clearly in worse conditions in health care than patients in the rest of Spain, and the reality that we are getting to know every day, of cases that are coming to us, is that there are even those who are qualified as serious, in the most advanced phase, F4, to which doctors prescribe new treatments, and do not do so because they do not have authorization. Thank God, counselor, that clinical criteria were being followed! Here are the clinical criteria of the doctors, who would prescribe these new treatments to the patients in the most advanced phase, and even to some of them, as we are knowing cases every day, who are calling us to this group, are not being prescribed. You will have to explain here today in this rostrum why, and why these patients are not even being given the most advanced medicines. And, of course, the attitude of this Government to deny these treatments is clearly harming hepatitis C patients in Euskadi. Sick, patients who have to endure, or see how their situation worsens or can worsen, while they know that patients from other autonomous communities (patients from Logroño, Burgos and Madrid) have without any delay the treatments that they are denying here, counselor. Therefore, do not tell us that this problem is being addressed from a perspective..., from health, because then would be prescribing treatments that, as I say, are being prescribed in other autonomous communities. That is why we ask you, Mr. Counsellor: What assessment do you make of other autonomous communities going ahead of Euskadi (because they go ahead of Euskadi) in dispensing new treatments against hepatitis C?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u24	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. President, good morning again. Look, Mrs. Garrido, what you just said here, because you've made a piece of paper. In Euskadi we have never stopped treating anyone who has come to Osakidetza. We have a universal, public and quality health system, which has always treated all patients according to medical criteria, without leaving anyone behind. And this despite the policies promoted by his party from the Madrid government this legislature, implemented by urgency and as basic legislation. Immigrants also have hepatitis. Osakidetza remains a reference for Basques and Basques. The Basque Government and the parliamentary group that supports it are very proud of this. We have said this, and we have provided data (data, Mrs Garrido) that support the facts. In Euskadi we are treating people affected by hepatitis C, and we are going to treat all people affected. Data, what's not in other communities. Euskadi was one of the first communities that, from the first half of last year, began to dispense, for compassionate use, new medicines, while the Ministry of Health headed by Mrs Ana Mato of the People's Party, did not finish approving the authorization of the use of these drugs in the health system. From January to November, to authorise the use of sofosbuvir. Osakidetza is treating all people affected by hepatitis C following the medical criteria of the so-called "strategy" for the treatment of this disease, established by a committee of experts in which we have participated actively through Dr. Daniel Zulaika. Do you really believe that in Euskadi patients are not treated?, that new medicines are not used?, that there are inequities between territories and centers? You, who stand idly by, supporting a press conference that spoke of "genocide," Mrs. Garrido. Do you have any data, any specific data? We've laid out the role of membership on the table, and we can say that we've treated more than 700 people. And we say that we will continue to make a great effort, because that's really our goal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u26	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u27	Look, counselor, you're missing the truth, because you know as well as I do that there are patients... Before yesterday I called a patient qualified as F4, who had an appointment with the doctor and that the doctor had told him that he has no authorization to give him the treatment, and that "you come back tomorrow". And they're gonna give him a new date. So don't miss the truth in this rostrum, when you know that qualified patients... Yeah, if you want, I'll tell you what patient you are. Because, of course, you're here saying one thing in this rostrum but the reality in Euskadi is another: that there are patients qualified as F4... I am no longer talking about patients qualified as F2 and F3, who in other communities are being treated and not in Euskadi, but about patients qualified as F4, who are being told "come back tomorrow". And that's what's going on here, and you, counselor, will have a responsibility in that. You will have a responsibility, and a very great responsibility. And, look, don't talk to me about Mrs Mato, tell me about what the new Minister of Health has done: a national strategy for the treatment of hepatitis C was approved unanimously, by all the autonomous communities, including the Basque Country, where there was also some expert, in that working group, from Euskadi; which also had the deference with this Autonomous Community so that there would be specialists in that working group. And you are failing to meet those criteria that other autonomous communities are carrying out. You are the only autonomous community that is not implementing these criteria. You'll know it's not. You will have to clarify, and you will have to clarify the sick, those sick who are seeing how...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u28	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u29	Mrs. Garrido, we're treating patients with all the available drugs. Neither we nor any community nor country can treat all patients who currently have hepatitis C on the first day. We do so despite the fact that, from the Ministry of Health headed by its Minister Alonso, the approach strategy for hepatitis C approved continues to be provisional, two months after passing through the Interterritorial Council; the Ministry has not responded to the claims of the communities, it has no economic memory, the funding model is unknown, the meeting with the Treasury Boards has been suspended without delay, we have no information on the agreements with the pharmaceutical industry, our powers to negotiate prices are being invaded in public competitions for the acquisition of hospital drugs. But, look, the Basque Government is going to continue to assume its obligations: to govern for people. Last week we made public data, Mrs Garrido, which shows that we manage public resources with rigour, fairness and transparency. More than seven hundred people with hepatitis C have already been treated with new antiviral drugs in Euskadi, and we are 5% of the state's population. Ask for data and draw conclusions. And we're going to keep treating all people, step-by-step. And we are also paying the costs of medicines with the budget of the Basque Government, ensuring the sustainability of the public health system, something that seems to have ceased to be normal in communities governed by you. We said it from the beginning, and as the data shows, Osalides will treat and look after all the people who have the disease of the C hepatitis. Of course, just as we've always done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u30	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Five point in theme list: "To ask you, Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-the member of the U.UPyD team made to the head of the Security department, to reduce rubber balls immediately, and permanently remove them." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u31	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, all of you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari. On 16 April this House adopted a compromise signed between the Socialist Group and UPyD, which was also supported by the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party itself. All supported this transaction, except EH Bildu. This transaction called on the Basque Government's Department of Security to immediately restrict and replace the spearhead shotguns and rubber balls by other less harmful anti-disturbing means for people, which would also enable the Ertzaintza agents to perform their work properly and effectively. The Department was also urged to provide Ertzaintza with new anti-disturbing materials and to train agents in their use, as well as to provide all necessary means and tools to ensure their safety and that of all citizens both in the usual development of their indispensable work and in the face of the development of violent acts. However, on 6 May (i.e. just 20 days after the adoption of this parliamentary mandate) the director of Ertzaintza, in an interview with Radio Euskadi, refused to remove the rubber balls, because, he said, "We must be prepared". And he added: "I am not in favour of eradicating rubber balls, no kind of weapon." The question, therefore, is whether the department will fulfil the parliamentary mandate approved by the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party, the People's Party and UPyD. I have basically two doubts on the issue: whether you understood what was requested in that transactional, whether you understood that parliamentary mandate, and, second, whether you are actually going to fulfil that parliamentary mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u32	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Mr. Maneiro, the director of the Ertzaintza was direct and clear in his presentation of arguments. The weapons used by the police have one purpose: to neutralize situations that require police action and control. That is true of all the democratic police in Europe and all the police in the world. Practically every day we are seeing images of police situations and actions in public disorders. Fortunately, this type of circumstance here in Euskadi is being less frequent than in the near past, but also Ertzaintza has the task and the obligation to deal with complex situations of security and public order, as you well know, when these occur. It is the obligation of the Ertzaintza to comply with the law, to ensure that no one attacks anyone, that no one destroys public or private property, that no one imposes their demands above the rights and freedoms of others. But in his speech, Mr Maneiro, he deliberately obviouss the substance of the words of the director of the Ertzaintza, who showed the necessary reflection not only on the materials in themselves used by the Ertzaintza, but also on the use to be made of them, which is what is important. And, in this sense, the Ertzaintza seeks, analyzes and selects new materials, but not only that: it also works in new techniques, new tactics and new systems of intervention. But above all it foresees and prevents complex situations of public disorder, in order to try to better guarantee the security of citizens and of the agents themselves. To comply with the compromise signed by Parliament, yes, we are on that path.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u34	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u35	Yes, thank you, counselor. I didn't mean to obviate anything at all. I listened to the director of the Ertzaintza in that live interview, and I heard him say that he is not in favour of suppressing rubber balls. That is why, since a transactional was approved and requested, I have asked you whether it will actually fulfil that parliamentary mandate. And, in fact, he answers me yes. We hope so, because in many other cases other parliamentary mandates have not been fulfilled by this Government. I therefore believe that the mandate of Parliament is clear: it calls for the definitive replacement of rubber balls. And, therefore, we hope that as soon as possible it will be fulfilled and effective, and so it will be done. We do not include the term ban in that mandate, and we do not include it for a simple reason which I believe should be explained. In our view, it was pointless to ask for a ban on this material, because this could mean something like that the inertzainas themselves would have those spearhead shotguns and rubber balls, but from the government, from the department, it would be forbidden to use them. That's why we don't use that prohibition expression. What this is about is the department handing out to the ertzainas appropriate material other than rubber balls. An effective material, which guarantees the safety of all citizens, and of course also the safety of the inertzainas themselves. Indeed, there are violent groups or actions to which Ertzaintza must respond. What we're asking is for you to do it with the most effective material possible. We do not say, therefore, that rubber balls should cease to be used because there are no episodes of violence or there will be no episodes of violence, but that even if there are episodes of violence, rubber balls should not be used. The parliamentary mandate is therefore clear, there is no confusion about it, and what we are asking is for the department to do so as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u36	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u37	I agree, Mr Maneiro, with what you say: the Ertzaintza needs material that is effective but that guarantees the safety of the citizens as a whole and also that of the agents themselves. The selection of current lanzabolas was a long process of contrast and verification. Moreover, even improvements have been made during their use, we have also needed many material and organizational resources to give the training, and always with the same will: the will to equip the Ertzaintza with the most appropriate means possible. The spearheads... finally, as I said, the most effective means to deal with difficult situations of public order, material means that are used with well-founded professional knowledge, deep professional knowledge, means that cause no more damage than those they seek to avoid. The Ertzaintza has to be prepared to deal with the explosions of violence that may occur, and it is. And it is. That is why we focus both on continuous training, on training and on the preparation of ertzainas. Today it is not possible to respond to critical situations without any kind of police material, that is clear, and I think we all agree. However, lanzapelotas have been removed from the police stations, their use has been restricted absolutely and exclusively for the specialized units of the Mobile Brigade, and only in exceptional situations, and also only under specific orders from their superiors. Therefore, all this is contained in a police investigation, and, as I told you, this is the agreement that was signed in the transactional last April 16th, and on that road and on that job we are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u38	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Number of points in theme list: "Interliberation, by Daniel Mazzu Perez EH Collectors to the President, in the fracing field of the Lawmen to fill in with joy." Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, chief of departments. Good morning, Mr. President. I don't think it's worth explaining precedents deeply around this subject because I think we all know what precedents are. I shall only remember that a few years and a half ago several of the citizens have registered a legislator of the people in the legislature, and that the difficulties and obstacles have been overcome, especially the Jestric Party and the Poptular Party have been overcome by the transitions of this Parliament, if I am not mistaken in the following week, that law-maker of the people, if I am not mistaken, will form the law of ponciability. And the discussion has already been cleared up and we know what teams are like. We know, because the teams introduced corrections. All groups except one, a group that has no correction after asking for three extensions. The rest of us have submitted corrections. So we know what the attitude of each group is on this issue. The people gave us a very exact order: no fracing, fracking forbids in Biscay, Araban, and Gipuzian. And now, knowing what the legal context is and what the neurotic context is, groups have introduced our corrections. There are, more or less, two attitudes if we look at the correctities introduced by teams to prevent failure. On the one hand, the Social Party and the Basque People are gathered together. They ask here also to pass the course of the catalulians, which is to prevent the use of our own faculties, in order to interfere with the fracing, in order to prevent them altogether. In this case, the use of the city's power to forbid the fracing on the incorrigible soil. That's the Social Party and the Basque People united together. On the other hand, the Basque Country has gone beyond the gathering, and has requested that the anvial inclosure of the anvial inclosures and plans of the fracing. We must remember, at this moment, that there is a necgentical strategy here, instead of an ambimental strategy, which foresees a fatal strategy to make a fracling, and you, although you, the mythical strategy supported by the former Government, have the use of what you use and fill up the negligical strategy. And finally, the Basque People propose that the use of the Water Acts is a tool of land-lands, that is, the use of the map or infection of guinea-poeers, and the bane of fracing in the midstal, great, or very great, harquebuses. And, on the one hand, to make use of our own rights in Araban, Uska, and Gipuzia. And on the other hand, there is another proposition, and there is another proposition of the Jestle Party of Euco, a proposal made at the last moment by the Jeltist Party, a five-year-old moratoria. And that's where our question comes from, the Jestric Party, in this case, to Government. Knowing that the Judician and prohibition of a Moratorium will be the same (and I say, "I know," because the Spanish Government sent a report to this parliament, saying that the Juridic course will be exactly the same as that of a general prohibition or a general moralogia), and that the Republic of the State had sent a report, saying that their own jurisdiction was to break the jurisdiction of the energy, and that it would be resurreciated in front of your position. We are ready not to fill up the legalal frame now, or rather to decide here what to do with our most energetic resources and how to exploit our most fantastic resources. We're ready. But between the original and the original, we stay with the original-that is to say, the prohibition. If we know that the legal route will be the same, why a mortiatic and not a general prohibition? Besides, this demand for Moratoy has another part; and it is also that he requires a suspense about the rights which are now established, and that this is to enter into the limits of the government's competition, because we know very well that the State decides what periods are when the rights are transferred. So we see that the legal route will be rather narrow. We're ready to go together, but always knowing the true position of government. And why did I say this? What's the real attitude? Because it would have been credible that a demand from the moratorium, if EukoMork from the very first said that he'd announce, or at least interrupts the licenses that are in their hands at this moment. That's the second part that's missing in this discussion. In this legislature there is a great majority who admits that failure is harmful. There are some who use sactorial laws to forbid or hinder, some to mortify or hinder, others to mortalogy, but we all agree that it is hurtful to environment, and to the health of persons. And while we're at it, it's like, you know, it's like, you know, like, "Rodging the public" so you can make that practice. There's a big contradiction here. Does the Jéltarian side admit he's been wrong in the franchise case? The Jeltarian Party exhibits a mortia, by saying that it was the subject of this mortia, and in its explanations, as it may be injurious to environment and health, and to men's health, to examine scientificly the consequences which may be the result of five years' mortia. It is therefore admitting that it is hurtful, but while we have directed public money, we have devoted public resources to the exercise of it. So do you approve of your error in this matter? Do you admit that it's dangerous to make a fracing and that there are some reports that are accepted nowadays without doubt? And finally, what will you do with the demands of exploration? Because at the moment the biggest threat in Aran is the biggest, most real thing in the fracing area, the Gran Enara, and that's what's called a firecracker. If at this moment Mr. President decides to cancel, the most serious threat of failure is at this moment. So, to have credibility, do you accept mortatories or not? And what will you do with the licenses that are in your hands?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u40	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. Mr. Mazezu, in your interpenetration, when you write, you're asking me if you didn't do that. "What is it that makes you happy in respect to what is approved in the law? "I don't know. And of course I'm here to answer that because you asked me that. And, as far as I know, there is nothing but a proposition, as it is in December 2014. This proposition of the other law belongs to the permission of the Hydrocarburo's investigation, which is called Géminis. That's what you're supposed to do, and that's what you're asking me. Zehazki, onartu zena transatu zen zerabati zen, éta bi puntu zituen. Gaztelaniaz dauzkat eta gaztelaniaz irakuriko said hitz. Eta esaten du: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, during the consultation period of the proposed Earth seismic campaign 2D of the 'Gemini' hydrocarbon research permit, to report on the conditions, limits and measures it deems necessary to ensure maximum environmental protection by applying strict technical criteria". And on the one hand, permission is not ours, it belongs to the Common-wealth, and will give the measures and exactness to be given. But, of course, when you ask me, he'll do that too. Eta bigarrena ez zen guretzat, baina, hala ere, irakurri egingo dut: "The Basque Parliament urges the Bizkaia Provincial Council, in accordance with the applicable legislation, to provide the assistance requested by the municipalities concerned in order to draw up the allegations that they consider appropriate to the said project". So that's the answer to your question, exactly: we shall do what we have done the first time, and in the second we have nothing to do. But of course you were talking about something else. And you got it all mixed up with a laugh (a free interpelation) and a parlamentary group, you've been working on that. And I really don't understand why, when you're all working at this moment in power, you're all working around a town-maker, as you said. Your bet, to make your point clear? All right, all right, thank you. If that's it, thank you. You'll mention it in power too, but it's fine. And besides, we're hiring the legislature. This translation, really, is what I've been telling you, it's nothing else. However, this government is not at present inconsistent with it, and will not give an opinion in the presence of an enterprise which is not yet finished, and you are still discussing it. He's been examined by the Environmental Committee, where you've had different options to discuss the extraction techniques, the environmental techniques, the water that cares so much about you, even about your health. You've had all your options, but he's still arguing about this and he's still missing some phases. So, in political activity, and you know that, according to principles so essential in the course of this government (and from one point of view, it has its own initiative and its work, and on the other hand, on the division of the legislative, we shall not take any part. We'll see what happens and how it goes when you're arguing here. Beraz, Mr Maeztu, you really are asking the government with a question, but what you have actually done in this rostrum is to ask the parliamentary group. Take this debate to the paper where it is. Thank you for all the explanations of the amendments that you have tabled, and for explaining to us here, rather than in the presentation where we are discussing, what you have tabled. Well, thank you! In addition, he has explained to us what the parliamentary group has presented. I think they will explain it well enough when it comes to them. And, of course, on the basis of the fundamental principle of separation of powers, this Government will take the appropriate decisions when what happens in the presentation has been completed. He still has a way, and we'll see what happens. You still have time to debate. And please do not come to question the parliamentary group, when it is appropriate to question the Government. And above all, you make a written inquiry and you present here, in the gallery, something that has nothing to do with the written inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u43	Why do you avoid this discussion? What are you afraid of? I've been there in ten minutes, and Mrs. members of the legislature have let me in on the interpenetration. Are you the head of the legislature or is it him? Who says what's an interpelation? You know very well what our interference was. And I'll read you what the hearing of the intern said. "Before the debate in Parliament to ban the fracking technique in the extraction of gas from underground, Basque government spokesman Don Josu Erkoreka has recently declared that he believes the debate is good, and acknowledges that the last word belongs to the Basque government. However, it has announced that they will continue to investigate for the time being, because it seems essential to them." You knew exactly what the competition context was. It is not here that Géminis and another legal proposition appear; your attitude appears. We want to know what your behavior is, because in this legislation we've expressed our attitude and we admit that cocktail is dangerous, start from EAJ and we're done at the EH Collectan. And meanwhile, you're giving your opinion one day and the next, because you're working on the public money, and that's what you think. And that's what it's like to act against the behavior of this legislature. If you decide to drop him off here, will you follow the franchise? Yes or no? That's the spirit. In your budgets (in the budgets of the SHESA) the commitments that are stored (17 million dollars, if I'm not mistaken, for fracing), what's going to happen to them? That's what the people want to know. For us at the present moment it is serious, knowing what the majority of the members of this legislature is, and there is no argument about failure, to pursue you in the public money and in the pursuit of public resources. Of course you're making an opinion! Not publicly. Publicly, you want to hide your true face with your fracing. Of course you want to do that! But while you continue to cross the permits and start the machinery of the fracing, in order to be able to do the fracling of Araban, Bazazia, and Gipuzian, especially ara (Gran Enara permission). So the suspicion that we had is supposed to be fulfilled. First of all, you don't wanna look at it. You come out here with a very bad escape, with a bad one, when you know what the context of the interpenetration was, because it's very clear to him. And you're still saying you'll respect him. To respect them, give them all the orders to stop today. Are you involved with all the documentation of the animal investigation of Gran Ena's study? Yes or no? Are you still trying to track the public money into the fracing mode? Yes or no? For perhaps it will be indissoluble because of your enterprises which are here made, because it will already be in progress to make wells in Araban. So the questions are very precise. If you don't want to answer again this second round, but knowing what the people want at this moment to do, if you don't want to know whether the money is engaged in the fracking for you, and whether you're going to stay in your hands or not. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u44	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u45	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. There's no escape, Mr. Mazzu, because I've been through this last block, and if you read it, it's the position of fun. But, of course, the lawyer has allowed you to continue, and the only thing I answer is that the interaction is not the cause. There's a lot of things going on, but really in interpelation, I repeat, this: "What is it that makes you happy in respect to what is approved in the law? "I don't know. And, as far as I know, there's nothing here yet. You're giving your opinion every day, yes. Opportunities, decisions are not made. And when the decision is made, as in other matters, and as it was mentioned here today, this fun says a full respect to the parliamentary, so we'll accept it. But there's no attitude yet. You're talking about power: What will happen and how. Let us make this way and examine it. And we've always said that he who's studying this form will have his own career later, but you want to advance that course. Sometimes you go ahead and sometimes you don't. What are we stopping at? Where do you need to talk? So let's keep doing what we have to do. And please don't confuse things. Do you give me leave every day? Where are we giving the rights every day? Where? Please don't confuse things. We're doing things as I mentioned last time as best we can. And step by step. Things carry their trap, as you know. And we respect the decision we've made. But I repeat my decision. And there's no decision here. Your opinion and opinion of the rest of the teams, which are still undisputed. So, funk, as I say, really believes in the distribution of power. So we'll do what we have to do and respect what the law says. When he says. And, for the time being, you want to bring a discussion to the wrong place. Take it where it takes and then we'll go on. When it's settled, I'll answer what we have to do. But be sure we will respect him as in other matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interadelation, the Mist, of the Gorka Maniroy, a member of the President, a member of the President, a member of the House ofUPyD, with the steps to plan another law on public administration." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u47	Yes, thank you, President. Mr Councilman, two years ago we presented a parliamentary initiative to urge the Basque Government to present in this Parliament a draft law on transparency, which contains a number of principles which we consider to be fundamental, which are the following and which we continue to consider to be absolutely fundamental. The right of access to information is a fundamental right of everyone. The right of access to information applies to all public entities, to all the powers of the State and to all private entities performing public functions or receiving public money, regardless of their size. The right of access to information applies to all information produced, received or held by public entities, regardless of how it is stored. Making requests must be simple, fast and free of charge. Staff members have an obligation to assist applicants. All information held by the administrations, all the powers of the State and all private entities exercising public functions must be public. Denial of access to any information should be exceptional. Denials of access to information should be limited and duly motivated. Everyone has the right to appeal against denials of access or non-respondence to requests made. Public entities, on their own initiative, should make basic and essential information available to the public, without the need for an application. The right of access to information must be guaranteed by an independent body. The Government will be primarily responsible for the promotion of the right, ensuring and promoting the knowledge and use of the right. Penalties shall be imposed by law in respect of offences committed in respect of what is specified in the legislative text. We therefore ask, two years ago, for a law of transparency of its own and independent, i.e. a differentiated law, and in particular separate from the rule governing and regulating the work of the Basque public administration. A law, of course, that goes beyond national law, which we have already criticized in the Congress of Deputies for being clearly insufficient. In the justification of that initiative we said that citizens need access to all that information that allows them to know and evaluate objectively the activities of the different public institutions. Such information should be considered as the property of citizens. That public administrations and the public sector must actively generate information relevant to the understanding of their activity and must make it accessible to citizens. That any information recorded in any form, prepared or received and in the possession of the authorities, is public, so that access to this information can be limited only to protect other legally assessed legitimate rights and interests. That all persons have the right to request any information from all public administrations and institutions, without having to explain why they want it, and have the right to receive a reply in a short time and in a clear and understandable format. That an important, fundamental effect of management transparency measures is to reduce areas of opacity and obscurantist practices that favour corruption, waste and mismanagement. That any entity or person benefiting from public aid must also report publicly on the use of such aid. And from there, two years ago we asked this Parliament to urge the Basque Government to submit, within six months of the adoption of that initiative, a draft law on transparency. We also proposed to urge the Basque Government to develop a transparency portal that would accommodate all information relating to the Administration, where at least the remuneration and compensation for the service of elected officials, senior officials and members of the Basque Government would be reflected; the recording of the activities, assets and interests of elected officials, senior officials and members of the Government; the entire recruitment of the Basque public administration; the temporary recruitment lists of staff; administrative concessions; the updated inventory of administrative procedures; administrative and judicial decisions; public expenditure on institutional campaigns and their recipients. All this we asked for in that initiative two years ago. Therefore, clearly maximum demands for them to be carried out as soon as possible and launched by this Government. In addition, we called for the inclusion of a contract registry, a contractor registry, a collaboration agreement registry, and a grant registry within that transparency portal. Finally, the Basque Government decided to introduce its bill of the Basque public administration, which included matters relating to participation, transparency and access to information. It is clear, and I refer to the facts, and has thus been moved by the majority of groups in this Parliament, that this project was short and far from the principles that UPyD certainly continues to uphold. The draft submitted by the Basque Government preferred to make an absolute follow-up of the national law on transparency, a national law on transparency that we criticize at the time because it is clearly insufficient. Instead of using the powers of this Government to go further and be more demanding, what was done and envisaged was an absolute follow-up to that national law of transparency. By taking as a model a law that did not know how to adapt to the new times, this bill, therefore, was born very limited. And this project also included major shortcomings, such as the failure to provide for a legal sanctions regime. But it is also that the first part of the bill, which referred to the organization of the Basque public administration, was also frankly improveable. It was not an attempt to simplify, clarify, reduce and modernize the Basque institutional framework; it was a faracious bill; it was a bill that renounced the regulation and regulation of the public sectors of all Basque administrations, including historical territories and local authorities; it was not seen in that draft, nor was it even envisaged, a strategy to simplify and reduce the administrative framework or control externalisations or management orders. It was therefore a short and unambitious bill, which did not comply with the minimum principles that a transparency law should comply with, which renounced the regulation and regulation of the public sector of outside and local authorities, which did not go beyond what was already advanced by the national transparency law. It also did not include a sanctioning regime. A project which, therefore, gave up radical transparency and smoothed out existing duplications. This was understood by the majority of groups in this House, and as a result three amendments were tabled in their entirety, whose argument I must say is quite similar. Therefore, there was a fairly general coincidence, there were points in common at least, which we came to share clearly different groups, and from that moment on – and this is something that certainly draws my attention – the Government withdrew the project. And this is something that certainly – truly I tell you – left me puzzled. That is to say, the government did absolutely nothing, or at least did not do everything possible for this Parliament to take that bill into consideration, and from there the amendments could be discussed. He didn't do anything! The government did not contact UPyD, although at that time and on that subject the vote of UPyD could be absolutely fundamental! The Basque Government decided not to talk to the parliamentary groups, at least did not talk to the UPyD group, and let go of the days and finally decided to withdraw this project. And not only that, but he also accused the groups of doing electoralism. All this leads me to think on the one hand of what we have already seen, which was a clearly insufficient bill, much improved by everything I have said, but on the other hand it leads me to think that the Government did not want that bill to be passed. I mean, UPyD's vote could be decisive: there was no rapprochement, no negotiation. And, by the way, in the days we learned, when this draft was finally withdrawn, we learned that you said at a press conference that same morning that the Government was prepared to adopt three hundred partial amendments. And the rest of the groups don't know anything about it. Finally, what this Government is going to do about this bill, when it is going to resubmit it, what content it is going to have, that's what I ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u48	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Erkok is in the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. Mr Maneiro, it seemed to me to warn three clearly differentiated parties in your speech. One, the usual in its interventions, of reproaches to the government, logical in a political formation of opposition, of reproaches of great caliber. We jurists, when the same clauses are repeated in the contracts in a systematic way, we call them the generals of the law, and then each contract contains the specific clauses applicable to each case. In their case, the generals of the law are always accompanied by large-scale criticisms of the Government: everything is absolutely impossible, everything is absolutely indispensable, everything is absolutely insufficient. Therefore, I take them simply as a style clause without more, which are essential in their interventions. This time it has accused us of inability to assume the minority position that we have in Parliament, an inability that I believe has no basis for reproaching us, because we are fully aware that the Government is supported by a parliamentary group, to which we thank very much for its revelations and efforts to defend the positions of the Government, and for its commitment to the Executive's approaches, but we are aware that 27 of 75 is a limited number. However, in the same way that we have to assume that minority situation we have in Parliament, I suggest that you too be consistent with this which suggests to me and therefore take your position as a minority. To say here that the Government has done nothing, did not negotiate with any parliamentary group, did not speak with any parliamentary group, because we do not talk to you or do not negotiate with you, is a lot to pretend. That you intend to convey here the idea that the majority which could be satisfied on the hypothetical day on which the amendments were to be discussed in their entirety depended on your vote is very much to be expected. You also assume your position as a free minority. It is one that can contribute at decisive times to making, forming or preventing the formation of majorities, but do not assume that, in the event that that amendment occurred to the whole and that plenary for which you were sighing, your vote would be decisive. In other words, there were other political formations that had not made full amendments, but nothing prevented them from supporting those that were registered. Your vote, therefore, has the strength and value of what you represent, which is one in a 75-room chamber. Beyond the reproach chapter, he has made a retrospective reference to the background to the regulation contained in that bill. A background that does not go back to the resolution that was adopted two years ago, which you have referred to. They go back a lot. During the past parliamentary term there was much discussion on this issue, not only on transparency, but also on all issues relating to the organisation, operation and regime of the public sector of the Autonomous Community. There were debates that were all concluded in March 2011, when the House adopted a resolution urging the Government to introduce a bill on this subject; a bill that, at the end of the legislature, has not yet been submitted and registered in the House. Therefore, the background goes much further, and we could go back further. In any case, this Government's commitment to transparency is unquestionable. Some of the issues and principles that you have cited here, which were reflected in that parliamentary agreement to which you referred, two years ago, are being rigorously and systematically implemented by the Executive. The Basque Register of Contractors, for example, to which you have referred, is in perfect operation, and there you can consult all the contracts that are being executed at this time by the Government. Everyone. There is not only the profile of the contractor, which was launched a few years ago: the Revascon, the Basque Register of Contracts, gives comprehensive and up-to-date information on all the contracts – analytics – of my department, of which they are subject at this very moment of execution. Therefore, comprehensive information, quite advanced... What can be improved? I won't question it. That much further progress can be made in this and other areas? I won't question it. But, look, the only minimally objective indicator we have to calibrate public administrations' commitments with transparency, which are the biannual audits of Transparency International, has given us the highest score. Finally, therefore, between Transparency International's objective indicators and its particular opinion in this forum, I believe, frankly, that it has more objective quality than the information that results from an agency specialized and recognized in the international field in this area. Well, on the content of the bill, on the content of the amendments recorded by the parliamentary groups, we could talk long and wide. We could be doing so right now in committee if three amendments to the whole of the bill had not been tabled during the election period, which objectively impeded the passage of the bill. I understand that you can try to convince me that everything was random, but, look, this bill was passed by the government on 16 September last year, it was registered in the House on 6 October last year; I myself appeared in committee, in the committee responsible, to discuss the case on 26 November, and I was almost three hours away from the contents of the bill. By the way, you weren't on that committee. Yeah, yeah, I'd see her, but she wasn't there to express her views, her discrepancies, such... The rest of the parliamentary groups were there. There were not many contributions, frankly (I invite you to review that), no positions were set, no one marked red lines, no one said "I think this is insurmountable and I radically disagree on this"... I offered to continue to dialogue and maintain contacts with all parliamentary groups regarding the contents of the law, and to listen to their contributions, because my approach was frankly open in that position. The period for tabling amendments was opened in December. The deadlines for tabling amendments were repeated successively, until, suddenly, on 23 and 24 March, we find ourselves with three amendments to the whole, after several months of incommunicado, that the parliamentary groups did not attend at all to the invitation of the Government to make their contributions, their allegations, express their views... Three amendments to the whole – see what I am going to tell you – the week before Holy Week, the three amendments to the whole, and with the intention that the whole plenary would be held the week immediately after Easter, when everyone knows that this Parliament has a very intense activity both in Holy Week and in Easter week. The advance to Holy Week is presented the three amendments in their entirety, with the intention of discussing them in the week immediately following Easter. Finally, the framework for successful negotiations and talks to address the substance of the matter was very broad. Today we could be discussing these issues in committee, but the amendments to the whole presented in those circumstances prevented it. I would have liked to go into depth on these issues, because I have my points of view, and I could defend the contents of the law and I could accept many of the contents that are contained in the amendments. On the amendments, which you say were similar to each other... A little less. Look, there were parliamentary groups in which the mismatch between the content of the amendment to the whole and the content of the partial amendments was radical. It was noted, it was too clear that they were working on a line with the partial amendments, and suddenly they found that they had to register one in full, and the whole had nothing to do with what the partials collected. This was evident in some cases. Therefore, the homogeneity you attach to the three amendments as a whole will not be so much, it was not so much. In any case, there was some aspect shared by the three of us. For example, the idea that, instead of a law, the content of the draft should be separated into two bills. All right, because I have no problem, it is a technical legislative formula. We were told: "Let the Spanish model be imposed, that in Spain there is a law for organization and operation, and another for transparency". In Spain it makes sense, because the Lofage, the Law on the Organization and Functioning of the General Administration of the State, is from the 1990s, and when we reach the 21st century we need a complementary law that talks about transparency and participation, which did not exist. Here, as there is no Lofage, as there is no Lofage, the logical thing was to integrate everything into the same legal norm, to integrate it into the same articulated, to facilitate things for the purposes of transparency, so that the legal operator had much more clarity by operating with a single legal norm. That you operated on the Spanish model had logic; that the Socialist Party did it also had logic; that EH Bildu said that the Spanish model was yours was stranger, it was a little weirder, but, finally, these things do exist in common. In any case, you ask about what we're going to do. Look, I actually promised that I would work on two articulated texts, as the House asked me (the Spanish model, which also enters Basque), we are working, but you know that, in the end, the procedure for drawing up general provisions is long, it is complicated. We are on it, as Aznar would say, we are working on it, and I can assure you that in a few months we will be in a position of power...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u50	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u51	It makes me laugh, Mr. Erkoreka. Let us see, as regards the large-scale reproach that characterizes UPyD's control of the government, I have explained to him what kind of law we wanted, because I say that two years ago we defended an initiative for this government to present as soon as possible a transparency law that would make it feasible and implement and respect a number of very advanced principles. That is to say, we have already defended it in this Parliament. And I've made a comparison of what UPyD wanted, what kind of law it wanted, what kind of transparency law it wanted, and what kind of law we were brought into this Parliament. This is what I did in my first intervention. You call it a "large-calibre mirror," and I think it's been a fairly adjusted, measured, and reasonable intervention. But the curious thing is that you accuse the rest of the political parties of blocking the action of the government, or of preventing us from having today a law of public administration that we could be debating already. And the maximum responsibility for whether or not we have a law of transparency or a law of public administration lies with the Government. It's government. So, don't try to look guilty. If you are in a minority, in the end, you will have to look for agreements with the rest of the political parties, I suppose, in order to try to get certain laws to move forward. Yesterday, a member of parliament of the Basque Nationalist Party contacted a server to discuss the law of addictions. That's fine with me. Actually, that's the way it has to be. But it turns out that in a matter as fundamental as this, in a law as important as this, the law of public administration, it turns out that no one comes into contact with UPyD; that we are one, yes, but that could be fundamental in that debate, because three amendments were tabled in all: we were 38 parliamentarians versus 37. Therefore, it is possible that the UPyD vote could be key, and yet no effort was made to dialogue or negotiate with UPyD. Not one, not one call, no approach. And also, from what the rest of the groups have said, similar thing, very similar thing happened with those parliamentary groups. From what was said, the Government did not dialogue with either EH Bildu or the Socialist Group. You'll know why! They're accusing us of electoralism. On the part of UPyD there was no calculation. And finally, he points out that you showed up a few months ago... Finally, these are the usual parliamentary deadlines; time extensions are called for so that parliamentary groups can continue to study the different laws in detail, and the amendments are then presented. That is what each of the parliamentary groups did: in order to study the law well, to be able to present the best possible amendments, extensions of deadlines are presented. But this can't be an excuse, it's very ugly, it's a very cheap excuse. The responsibility lies with the Government. We didn't do any kind of electoralism. We have studied the law thoroughly, and we consider it to be a clearly improveable law. We tabled the amendment in its entirety, but we were hoping for a call from the Government to talk about management. And since you said at that press conference that you were willing to accept three hundred partial amendments from the different groups, man, it would have been normal for the Government to explain to those parliamentary groups how many of those amendments were to be accepted, because in that case perhaps the amendments in their entirety could have been withdrawn! Therefore, I do not know whether it is electoralism, but in any case electoralism would be on the part of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government, to try to cast that image that the rest of the groups did not want a certain law to be passed. I think it is rather that what the Basque Government does not want is for a law of transparency, a law of demanding transparency, a law of transparency that makes it possible to know the fate of up to the last euro of public money, which is what we propose. And, of course, if you review what principles we defend, of course in that law that you presented were not fulfilled at all. It was too far away. Therefore, what you have to do as soon as possible is to present a law that incorporates those principles, and, of course, if it is a law of differentiated transparency, much better. And as soon as possible, because it is a supposedly star law of the Basque Government, which, however, you have not been able to take forward because of your inability. Because of his inability, not because of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u52	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, I agree with you that, look, the past is, and what matters from now on is facing the future. What is of interest at this time is to clarify, to the extent that this is possible, what steps the Government is going to take in relation to the House to make it possible for Basque citizenship to enjoy two legal rules – now it would no longer be one – that will articulate, in a systematic way – something that has not happened to date – the organisation of the public sector of the Autonomous Community and the transparency regime applicable in the administrative field in Euskadi. The previous thing... Well, indeed, as you have done a retrospective reading that has occupied 60% of your speech, I have inevitably had to contribute my own reading. Surely the things that happen during the election campaign are coincidences, they are coincidences; my experience in politics leads me to conclude that this is not usually the case, that nothing happens by chance during the election period. But, I insist, this is not an issue that needs to be addressed at this time. The Government, in fact, following the indications expressed in these amendments (not in the entirety, but in the partials of the House), is redrafting the text. Both initiatives are in a fairly advanced state of development. We have made an effort to integrate many partial amendments, not one, but all the parliamentary groups. Of course, they are not all incorporated into the text, because there are some amendments, however much you insist that there was a single approach to the approaches of the parliamentary groups... Look, there are parliamentary groups who consider that the text we referred to the House was unambitious from the point of view of the linguistic normalisation of the Basque language, and yet you defend the opposite. "Here, of Basque, let nothing be said," you say. Therefore, reconciling such contrary oppositions is a bit complicated, but we are making an important effort to incorporate the maximum number of amendments. However, the Government is working as fast as possible, but at the same time respecting – as it cannot be otherwise – the guidelines, rhythms and formal and procedural requirements imposed on it by a law that is in force, that of General Provisions, which was approved by this House. That law is therefore in force, and we must respect the guidelines set out there. As far as the substance of the matter is concerned, there is a difference between the moment when the parliamentary resolution to which you referred was adopted and the present moment. And it is that, in the meantime, the General Courts of the State passed a law in December 2013, a basic law that regulates, among other things, transparency and good governance, which is not detractable. And there, in that rule, regulated on a basic basis, many issues that, whether we like it or not, link us. Logically, the basic rule does not prevent the transparency thresholds set out in it from being exceeded in some autonomous communities or in other administrative areas. Doesn't stop it. But it is true that there are limitations. For example, with regard to those aspects in which transparency does not operate, which are bound to bind, which are bound by respect on the part of all the autonomous communities. For example, when the basic rule speaks of the inexorable respect for the protection of personal data, and says that transparency cannot penetrate personal data, because it is not data of citizenship, but rather data that operate in the hands of public registers but that belong to each citizen, these aspects must necessarily be respected. When it says that access to information by citizens can be limited when elements linked to public security, the investigation of crimes and so on are at stake, there are limits to be respected. Therefore, that rule is binding, and we have to take it as a reference I believe inexorably, and I do not believe that there is anyone in the House who imposes it. But with that limit – I insist – we are already working on the text, we are working as quickly as possible, because we are aware of the time it takes to complete the legislature, but at the same time, respecting the rhythms and guidelines imposed on us by the regime established for the elaboration of general provisions. I cannot give you a specific date (it would be irresponsible on my part) to set the time when the government will be able to refer these two projects to the House, but I insist that we are working very rigorously, very intensively, very quickly, and making an effort to incorporate as many amendments as possible, so that it will be easier later on to process the project here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u54	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Before we proceed, I must say that the thirteenth point has been left for another. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the President, a member of the American laws of Cristina Ruiz Bujedo Euscal Group, with regard to the English government of France at great speed." Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u55	Si, gracias, presidenta. Good morning, everyone. The strategic stake for the Atlantic railway connection has been and is, as was demonstrated at the last Aquitaine-Euskadi summit, a matter of transcendental importance to the Basque Government. You, Lehendakari, along with Mr Rousset, last month reaffirmed your commitment to join Euskadi and Aquitaine with the high-speed train. At the last annual meeting of the Euroregion, it again recognized the priority of this railway project for the two regions. At the same time, the work of the high-speed train in Euskadi continues to move forward, and the Government of Spain remains resolute in its plans and commitments, with investments, deadlines and paces that could only be put at risk if the political configuration of the Government of Spain and the Basque Government changed in the short and medium term. The conviction that the Lisbon-Madrid-Paris-Helsinki Corridor would be of the utmost interest is very internalised within the European Union as a medium-term continental vertebrate plan, but unfortunately threats are being posed in the form of retractors and speeches. The added value that the Basque Y would lose if the worst high-speed wishes were to thrive in France leads me to ask you, Mr Lehendakari, what are your efforts and those of your Government, beyond public statements recalling the priority of the high-speed rail connection with France.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u57	Good morning, Mr. President, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Yes, Mrs Ruiz, indeed, as you know, we are very busy in the execution of the Basque Y on the part of this government, and also in pushing, in all places where we have a voice, the rest of the sections, both those being carried out by the Spanish Government and those being carried out by the French Government and other governments within the framework of the European Union. To frame for a moment an issue that I believe is already known to all, we are before one of the nine corridors defined in the Regulation of the European Union, the European Parliament and the Council of 11 December 2013 on Union guidelines for the development of the Trans-European Transport Network. Again and again, Europe reminds us that this is one of the Union's nine key and strategic corridors. Already in 2013, in March, the lehendakari, our lehendakari Iñigo Urkullu, sent a letter to Rajoy insisting and making him see this need, this priority of this network, at a time when the Spanish Government was not putting the necessary means to continue, to arrive in time with its sections. President Rajoy replied on 19 April, ratifying the importance of the network and the importance of these sections, but without putting in place any of the mechanisms that were necessary at that time to have been able to arrive within a more correct time frame than those that will be. Fortunately, things have continued, we have continued to insist both on the Congress of Deputies and on bilateral meetings with the Spanish Government, and at this time it seems that the Spanish Government is carrying out the necessary procedures to implement that 2019 commitment that Minister Ana Pastor said. But, apart from that letter to Mr Rajoy, also in each of the meetings we have with the Euroregion, within the framework of the Euroregion, we always insist and there are always demonstrations in this direction, because the Basque Government and the Aquitaine Regional Council work together in the Euroregion, and we repeatedly call on the Spanish State and the French State to fulfil this European commitment to build and put into service the priority trans-European corridor. In addition to all this, as it is a European network and is a European priority network, we also work in the European Parliament. We worked in the European Parliament through our European Parliament, and between 18 and 20 March 2015 we had a visit from the European Parliament's Committee on Transport, with Mr Cramer at the head of the German Greens, where Mr Cramer also issued a warning from Europe to France to fulfil the commitment and to continue this Y. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u59	Yes, thank you again, President. I was a little surprised by the answer, especially when my question was not malicious. What I really want to know is what steps are being taken, beyond public statements when the Euroregion and the Lehendakari Urkullu and Mr Rousset make statements of demand. I was specifically asking what steps you are taking. And he talks to me about the letter to Rajoy, and the doubt about the determination of the Spanish Government I think is more than just discarded. And I'm saying it makes me a little disappointed in the answer. And also a little stunned, because he has mixed the efforts of the government, and I was also asking specifically the efforts of Mr Lehendakari, and he tells me about his parliamentarian, who I understand is talking to me about Mrs Bilbao, and about the visit that took place here in the Basque Country. I think you're wrong about plans. What I have seen is that the French paron is becoming less important, and that I am seeing in statements, and the speech on VAD is being reworded, which could be summed up in a few words that were said, "It is good in itself." And I don't think this is the most important thing. In our view, to insist on that speech, I believe that the actions and efforts that Mr Lehendakari and his Government could undertake to really advance our strategic interests remain strong. I have rarely heard in this rostrum claiming so little as the Basque Government and simply talking about the efforts and parliamentary activity of the Nationalist Party both in the Congress of Deputies and in the European Parliament. That's why I think I do share with you that, no matter what happens in France...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Time is up. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u61	Yes, indeed, the lehendakari has repeatedly asked the Spanish President, Rajoy, that the summits between the French and Spanish states where the Gasteiz-Dax railway connection is concerned should emphasize these issues. And again and again, in the meetings with the ambassador, the bilateral meetings he can have with the ambassador, with the French embassy, is also insistently reiterated, the lehendakari personally insistently reiterates this need and this reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. 9th point on the subject list: "I'm asking you, members of Carmello Barrio Barroja Populacal team for the president, the Civil Guard as a terrorist team "about the mistake on the Euskio website." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u63	Good morning, all of you. Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors and counselors, good morning. Well, an error has led Lehendakaritza to have to rectify, apologize, for the consideration of a terrorist group that for a while has occurred in relation to the Civil Guard on the website of the Basque Government. Covite, the Basque association of victims of terrorism, realized, denounced that so brutal information, and made them move in the General Secretariat of Mr Fernández. This issue, an unfortunate mistake, could have been less than that of hostility and criticism on the part of the Department of the Interior, which deploys the Director of the Police and his maximum responsibility towards the State Security Forces and Bodies. It is a climate that exists, which also feeds on these tremendous mistakes. The Government is also being unable to focus on a normalized, realistic relationship with the groups of victims of terrorism, and mischiefs like this do not help that climate, that normalization. You, Lehendakari, are the head of the Department of Presidency, Lehendakaritza, and the activity of this website is attached, and in that sense I think it is necessary not only a press release on this issue – that there is nothing more to see the information on the Internet to realize the expectation that caused that error, on the other hand, and some statements by some affected groups, no doubt within the framework of the apology and recognition of the error – but I think it is true that it is good that the appropriate explanations are given here. And in that regard, we asked him if he considered that this incident should be resolved by debugging responsibilities for the damage caused. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u64	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u65	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Leaving aside, Mr Barrio, the judgments of value which you, in the full reading of the justification of your question, have repeated in your speech, you yourself describe as an "unfortunate error" this incident, the origin of which is alien to the Basque Government, Mr Barrio, and you know it. Look, I literally read the note sent to the Director of Victims and Human Rights of the General Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence by the company responsible for updating the website. And the note sent literally says: "First of all, apologize for what happened. I'm totally overwhelmed by the situation. The error was due to a technical process in which we did not consider that the menu could be published. I only have to assume my responsibility and make myself at your disposal to give the relevant explanations to whoever requires them." This is the company's note to the Director of Victims and Human Rights. The Basque Government accepted the explanations and also the apologies presented, but we did more: we offered a direct and immediate explanation to the Ministry of the Interior, to Covite – whom you mentioned – and to other victims' associations. The Government issued a note recognizing the mistake made and publicly apologizing. The ministry and victim associations appreciated the immediate reaction and apologies, accepting that this was an involuntary error and that there was no intentionality. You yourself know this I'm answering, Mr. Barrio. It is clear, therefore, that this was an unfortunate mistake, as I also insist, you mention, and it is not induced, much less, by the Basque Government. The error was immediately corrected, recognized, explained and apologized. This, Mr Barrio, is to assume responsibility in proportion to the reality of this case, originating from a company outside the Basque Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u67	Thank you, President. Yes, I have to thank Mr Lehendakari, of course, for the recognition of the error, and for the appreciation that that happened and that we had to apologize. It is a pity, the truth that it is a pity that many times the Civil Guard, instead of recognitions, instead of thanks for its work, is found as it is, in criticisms, in insults and in mistakes. That's a shame, of course. Well, the government... I also spoke to Mr Fernández when what happened happened, and he already gave the explanations, but I think it was good for you to appear in Parliament and acknowledge that mistake. And I understand that he undertakes that all measures will be taken and that sufficient instructions have been given to the company so that these issues on such sensitive and committed issues will not occur again. Because it's not fair, not even by mistake, it's not fair that treatment, which is sometimes repeated. That is, the truth is that I liked one thing: after the incident, the Unified Association of the Civil Guard, after knowing what happened, moved the Executive of Urkullu to hold an act of recognition that deserves the very important work of the Civil Guard in the Basque Country. Let's face it, they've lost their lives, our floods...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u68	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u69	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u70	Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u71	Mr. Barrio, I would appreciate it if you would not mix the criticisms that we can make of the management of the Ministry of Interior, and in the relationship with the Department of Security, introducing in this criticism the Civil Guard as a force and body of State security. State security force and body that, along with the rest of the state security forces and bodies – I invite you to look at the hemerotec also what are the decisions of the Basque Parliament – has had its recognition and pronouncements of the Basque Parliament itself, recognitions in which I myself have participated. I keep insisting, after the company's recognition of the error, that we are facing a new time, and that we should be all groups in the line of collaboration. I cannot understand that you continue to want to mix, when there has been a clear answer from the company, which you yourself have recognized as an unfortunate mistake and which you have set out in the justification of your question, that we continue in what may be intentionality, in what I understand to be value judgments, also mixing what is respect for the victims of terrorism. I insist that Covite, like other victim associations, was also given the relevant explanations, and so they were accepted. I believe that we are, I insist, in a new time, that it is worth working for a project to foster understanding and strengthen coexistence in Euskadi. It will therefore not be possible for this Government to accept what may be an intentionality in a mistake recognised by the company itself, which, I insist, is willing to explain to the person who requires it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "The question is that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-the member of the U.S.UPyD team has made for the president, who collects terrorist's biktime data in the "online" of the President's Web page in the middle of the terrorist team. " Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u73	Yes, thank you, President. It is the same question, Mr Lehendakari, indeed. Covite denounced the fact that the Basque Government included the Civil Guard in a list of terrorist groups on the Lehendakaritza website, in a section containing data on the victims of terrorism. Finally, we believe that this is a flagrant fact, it seems to me to be certainly a regrettable fact, and I do not think that the idea that responsibility lies with a private company can be transferred. I believe that it is at least the Basque Government that has to go out to the rostrum, and in particular you. Not only to say that this is a computer error, I don't think it should stay there. He must say that he asks forgiveness, not only for Covite or for the victims of terrorism, but for society as a whole and for the Civil Guard, and that this is not really going to happen again. I believe that this is what I should say: to ask for public forgiveness from society as a whole, to assume their responsibility (because this is the responsibility of the government, not of a company), and indeed I believe that you too should thank and value the Civil Guard. I believe that this Parliament has not taken a strong enough position in these terms in recent times. There has been no clear tribute in this Chamber of Defense of the Civil Guard and the trajectory of the Civil Guard in its fight against terrorism. There hasn't been. There hasn't been enough clarity. At least I don't remember. And I think you should take this opportunity to do so. Mr. Lehendakari, the Civil Guard has been the organization that has fought against ETA most for years. It would be good for you to take this opportunity to say, to acknowledge it, that the Civil Guard has been the security corps that has fought against ETA most for years. I think you should say that the Civil Guard has done an extraordinary job that we will never be able to thank enough. I think you could use this matter to say so, and we would be grateful to you very much: Covite, the victims of terrorism and the Civil Guard, and thousands and thousands of citizens. I could take advantage of this matter to say so. I'm waiting for you to say it. Do you know how many civilian guards have been killed by ETA over the last few decades? Do you know how many? 230. Therefore, I think you can take this opportunity not only to say that it has been a computer error, not only to apologize, not only to say that this is not going to happen again, but you could even use it to publicly thank the Civil Guard for its extraordinary work in defense of freedoms and in its fight against ETA. Do it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u74	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, the recognitions to the State Security Forces and Corpses, whether the National Police or the Civil Guard, as well as the Ertzaintza, have obviously been several in this Parliament, and I subscribe to them, I ratify them, as I did at the time when they corresponded. As I have also personally acknowledged the victims of terrorism in my encounters with victims of terrorism in the past and I hope to continue to maintain in the present and in the future. But I believe that the truth must prevail in this case too. And the reality is, this is a computer error. The company itself that committed it has explained it, as I have told you, acknowledged and apologized. Look, Mr. Maneiro, in case you don't know, I'll tell you. The reality is that in 1979 a civilian guard killed a national police officer by confusing him with an ETA member. Now, the company makes the mistake of assigning this death to the Civil Guard as a whole in the field of authorship. In addition, the company publishes this website, which is under construction, before government supervision. An obvious mistake. I consider sufficient the explanation of the company, which has made an involuntary and unintentional error of any kind. And, I also insist, the Covite association itself was able to verify the immediate reaction of the Basque Government, as well as the Ministry of the Interior, and accepted the explanations received. The explanation I think is sufficient, insofar as I am referring to the Ministry of the Interior itself and to the victims' associations itself, and to Covite in particular, and can therefore be understood by anyone of good will. I insist that the explanations have been understood, accepted and thanked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u77	Yes, thank you, lehendakari. I'm not going to spread out. I just want to tell you two things. On the one hand, I want to ask you not to do this again. That this does not happen again, because the victims of terrorism are very sensitized, they are very affected by the different actions of this Government. Therefore, do everything possible to ensure that this type of "computer errors" do not occur again. And, please, Mr. lehendakari, be more clear about your pronouncement on the work done by the Civil Guard during all these years. Let me be more clear, because this Parliament has not been, and its political group has not been, for at least the last six years. Therefore, be more clear, say that the Civil Guard deserves all its recognition, and that the work it has done for decades against ETA is an absolutely extraordinary work, which we will never thank enough. I think you could use those same words, and the Civil Guard and thousands of decent citizens would appreciate it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u78	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, you in certain matters are permanently lacking in the truth. The truth about the pronouncements of this Parliament is permanently lacking, and more particularly the pronouncements of the Basque Nationalist parliamentary group. It is permanently lacking in the truth. You know, you know, you know, what happened and, um, you know, 'cause, uh, you know, EukMOOK went off the published database right away, that he solved it right away and asked for forgiveness. We got in touch with the victims' corporations, to explain clearly that it's no use to call the Civil Guard a terrorist team. The company accepted the mistake, cleared up what had happened, and apologized. Making mistakes is human, as it is human to admit, correct and apologize for it. What is not ethical, Mr Maneiro, is to use the victims as a flag of agitation and permanent confrontation. It would be good if you too had at some point come to recognize what the real relationship of this Basque Government is with the victims of terrorism. I hope that in the immediate future you can have proof of this, if you have not so far wanted to assume that this is the reality in this Government's relationship with the victims. You are committed to accusing the Government permanently of disrespecting the victims, even when the Covite herself accepted our explanations and apologies. You feel comfortable airing any situation that could cause the distance between victims and society, the distance between victims and institutions, and particularly between the victims and the Basque Government. Our commitment, my personal commitment and that of my Government will continue to be to promote unity and confluence, to strengthen a culture of peace and coexistence, above and beyond their value judgments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of Mien Galastegui Oyarzábal, a member of the Socialists of the United States Administration and Justice, the Tramitating laws of the Public Sector and Garden. " Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u81	All right. Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, lehendakari, counselors. The elections have already passed, and there is no longer an excuse for the Government to look at the reality and to remedy that lack of waist to understand the majority feeling of this Parliament when it comes to legislation. Because just before the campaign, on a date that the Government itself chose, because it is the one that marks its pace of sending laws, it found itself under an obligation to return the Basque Public Administration law. The groups did what we are obliged to do, which obliges us in this Parliament: to read the proposals, to submit our allegations in time, but in our case – and I think you know this, Mr Erkoreka – we practically consider the law to be not a good law, and therefore it could have been – and indeed it was – rejected, because it did not address the management of the public sector or bet on the radical transparency demanded by the citizens. But we do, however, work on each article, and we introduce, apart from our total amendment, a hundred amendments which point to where they can improve it. We could not discuss it, we could not discuss the draft, because the government took away the democratic confrontation of views in Parliament, at one hour from the start of the debate. Read the three amendments in their entirety, indeed, as you say, as Mr Maneiro said, the coincidence is that, among other things, the law should be divided into two laws, one on the public sector and one on transparency. The Government then took the step, tried to take the step, and showed its willingness to accept a lot of amendments, because, he said, it shared many contributions. If what you said is true, Mr. Counsellor, it will rarely be so easy for this Government to bring forward a law. We would like to think that they have taken advantage of these five weeks, and, as I have listened carefully to the answers I gave to Mr Maneiro's question but it has not been very clear to me, we ask him: When will he present to Parliament the proposals to regulate the Basque public sector and transparency, including the contributions made by the groups two months ago?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gallastegui, as I think I made quite clear at the end of my speech, of my last speech, in the question put by Mr Maneiro, I believe that this issue is no longer worth it, nor does it make sense to address it from a retrospective perspective. What's done is done, and we left it to the historians. What is now of interest to us and what citizens are asking us to do is to approach it from a forward-looking point of view, and to be proactive and constructive on the part of all, and that is the spirit that inspires me at this time and that inspires the Government in relation to this bill, which is now already working in the Government as two bills, following the majority indications of the House and the feeling that it was actually shared by the parliamentary groups representing the majority. You ask me about the date on which the Government will be in a position to bring these two bills to the House. As I anticipated in the previous speech, I find it a little difficult to define that date, but I will give you an answer to a question that I believe is much more operational at this time: when this counselor and his team are willing to meet with you to discuss these two bills (still drafts) to negotiate them hand-in-hand, to share them as much as possible and to present them to the House in the most consensual way possible. The answer is clear: immediately. I will not invite you to meet us tomorrow because it is Saturday and plays Athletic, but next week you put me day and hour, and my team and I will be with you, and who also designates your parliamentary group, to talk about this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u84	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u85	Thank you again, President. Well, I'm very happy to have some very good news in that regard. Now, I remind you that Athletic plays in the afternoon. I mean, we can work in the morning. [[Barres]] It was a joke, anyway. What I do say is that I do think the position of the adviser is very good and I thank him, because we as a group also prefer to remain with that commitment that you have made, followed by the rejection of the bill, and also because you have the contributions of more than 625 amendments that have been made and that can enrich both projects in a very important way. Of course, you know, because I have told you on many occasions, that if you want to find us to begin the processing of any law that is good and that improves the lives of citizens you will find us. Not only with this, but with any of the laws that any government department intends to bring to Parliament for approval. And I think everything is learned and mistakes are learned, and in that sense I must congratulate you, because if this had been done before (it is not a matter of looking back)..., if this had been done before, we would have made a great deal progress. We could even have already passed a law regulating the Basque public sector and regulating the...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u87	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u88	To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Gallastegui, I have ruled out Saturday's hypothesis because I did not know or wanted to condition your agenda, nor did I know whether you intended to move to Barcelona. And that's what it'll take at least in the morning. In any case, I take the floor, and we set the date and time to discuss this issue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u90	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interpelation, the legislature of Carmelus Barrio Barroja of the Popula team, made from the head of the department of Education, Language politics, and Cultural, on the necessity of a new plan on the Euscal ball." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u91	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillors, councillors. Let's change the football for the ball, Mr. Erkoreka. Let's talk about the Basque ball and its needs, which is also important, I think, to talk about. Act No. 14/1998 of 11 June 1998 on Sports in the Basque Country provided for a reference question, an important question, which had its course and development but which I understand can be resumed. In order to boost (he spoke of three sports: herri kirolak, Basque ball and fixed bank rowing) in the Basque Autonomous Community, the Basque Government will adopt a strategic plan within one year. This plan, in which the Basque federations involved, the Basque Sports Council and other agents related to these modalities will be involved... He spoke of a number of issues in relation to those strategic plans. Objectives of the plan, measures to achieve that objective...; in particular, for the Basque ball, the responsibilities of the various public and private entities in order to implement those measures, deadlines for the implementation of plans, procedures and deadlines for the revision of the plan, external promotion... That is, a number of questions for the impetus, for the consolidation, for the development, for the reorientation, where appropriate, of the sport of the Basque ball in its modalities. I think it's a good time to think about reproducing something like this today. In implementation of this law and the Basque Sport Plan 2003-2007, this strategic plan for the Basque ball 2006-2010 was developed. This plan marked lines of action in the field of Basque ball, which was to be carried out by the agents involved in its implementation. And, well, there they are, many of them are known, and, of course, some again claim certain protagonists. The Basque Pelota Federation of Euskadi, the World Council of the Basque Pelota, also the Confederation of Ikastolas, were agents, with the Administration, of course, called to develop actions contemplated in the plan, and in this sense subsidized for this purpose in the respective agreements reached in 2007. And then we saw it, and we had the opportunity to check it and see it in different government budgets in relation to the various strategic plans mentioned, namely that of the ball. And there are also parliamentary initiatives, questions describing those economic relations that existed for the implementation and development of that strategic plan. The truth is that the issue is once again brought to light as to the need for a recent appearance. I mean I'm going to talk and I'm going to get into the question of what the strategic plan is; I'm not going to get into other issues that were dealt with in the parliamentary appearance, in relation to federative disagreements and some accusations made. Well, there was an appearance; we are waiting in this area for new appearances in Parliament, the president of the World Council of Pelota or the director of sports himself of the Basque Government, to evaluate these disagreements. I don't want to get into those issues, but what I mean: what is the strategic plan and the need to empower a sport like that of the ball, which – said by its federations, for those who live all day that sport from within – is in crisis. And, I say again, that recent appearance of federal officials in the Basque Parliament's Committee on Culture and Sport highlighted, among other issues that will be addressed at the appropriate time, I say again, the need to make a new strategic plan, before consideration, they said – that is, it is not mine – of "the critical situation experienced by the Basque ball in its various forms". They referred more specifically to some of them: the basket, the lift, the shovel. More specifically to those, but, well, that was the consideration in relation to the sport of the Basque ball and its modalities. They said "critical situation," and that draws attention, that sets alarm lights. And federal officials also talked about the need to get a accurate diagnosis of the current situation in which all the actors involved would have to participate. It is an important issue, and of course something like that must be done. In view of these considerations and the need for institutional reflection on the situation of the sport of the Basque ball and its needs, it is when we present this inquiry to the Minister of Education. Indeed, in other legislatures we have already seen development documents or plans of action, of projection of the sport of the Basque ball. Without going any further, we saw him recently in the previous legislature. Counselor Urgell herself has already sent us a document that we knew had been dealt with in Pau in 2010, at the assembly of the International Federation of Basque Balls, regarding certain Olympic keys to the sport of the Basque ball. It was a report called the 2020 Front. "Basque ball, Olympic sport?", questioned himself. Well, they're ambitious issues. The document is a simple document, reflecting on the development of this sport, and of course they are useful issues. But at this moment that development or those predictions, or those pretensions, or those future-oriented analyses, are faced with the critical situation, with the problematic situation of the Basque ball and its modalities. So, in this sense, in order to understand that we can work from public institutions with the federative network, with the clubs themselves, to do something in favour of getting out of this critical situation – which will certainly be done in many cases by economic issues, but also by other organizations, in order to understand the practice of the different sports modalities of the Basque ball – we believe that it is good to know at this time, in view of these considerations, what the Basque Government has in relation to the empowerment, in this time of sports crisis, of the Basque ball, on the basis of the consideration that a new strategic plan would be the effective measure to be promoted by the Executive in compliance with the said fifth additional provision to which I referred earlier. I say again, that plan put the Basque Government in coordination with the federations, with the World Council of Pelota, with the Basque Federation, with other even educational areas that you well know, and in that sense we would like to know how you value this request, which can be ours if we turn it into a motion, but which is already from the Basque Federation of Pelota, which said it, the need for that strategic plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u92	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u93	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Barrio, the crisis we've been through these last few years and the economy has taken all the attention of society. This subject has often been the principal concern of many people's daily life. This concern has also reflected on the activity of the government. It's understandable, but it's the primary priority of fun to face the crisis without a doubt. This is the establishment of principles which will enable a permanent economic future and a stable economic recovery. The next major priority of government has been guaranteeing basic services for a citizen. Of course, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, Thus, health, education, and social politics have been our primary areas. That doesn't mean we've forgotten other areas. and though some of them have gone to a second stage, yet they are of great importance to us, both in the exercise of government and in respect of our worth and personality. We must place them there in general and also the euscal ball. Sport is strategic in the harmonious development of society, plays an important role in the educational field, not forgetting its impact on the identity of the peoples and also on the health and quality of life of the people, and therefore there are numerous actions being carried out by the Directorate of Youth and Sports to promote and promote a Basque sport model of reference and quality for the 21st century. I also know that you are well aware of the activity that is taking place, because I am aware that you are actively involved in those debates and appearances that are taking place in the field of sport within the Committee on Culture, Euskera, Youth and Sport. In the field of sport, among our strategic axes stands out the one aimed at designing a strategic plan of government so that Euskadi is a reference in the physical activity that carries out his citizenship. That plan, called Mugiment, has already been presented to this Parliament. We want to make a cultural and social change, so that physical activity is synonymous with health, in order to improve the quality of life of our people. We want to promote physical activity from childhood, in order to avoid childhood obesity. These are our strategic furrows, but we have other axes: the high-level sports, external projections, the structure of the sports teams, and the actions of strengthening the personality characteristics of the sporting Esscal and the popular sports sports. Of course, the Esscal ball is a sport spread throughout the world and a famous Euskadin tradition. He's known to maintain his personality for years, added by the contribution of other civilizations and cultures. In the same way as with other popular sports sports, the euscal ball is a useful tool for strengthening and projecting our culture at home. Nevertheless, the demands of society upon sports are constantly changing. The present state of the American race of Euscal Autonomia Errogo shows that the explanation and effort of all the agents that have is necessary. It is indispensable to adapt these qualities to the needs of all the groups of people who practise sports. Plus, it's been exposed for the last few years that certain sports fashions are in a very difficult position. The President of the Basque Federation of the Pilot also described this situation in the final scene of the committee of this parliament. To tell you the truth, you need to make a more dynamic sports offer schedule that will adapt itself to a thousand ways to understand sports activities and better care for the quality of the service. All this, in the broad field of the sport, but of course in the Euscal. By this time, in 2006, 2006, the 2006-2010 of the Basque Ball was completed. This plan was born in response to the requirements proposed by Cultural, Youthria, and sports department, as a result of the situation in the Euscal Plan of 2003-207. This strategic plan was designed to push Euskal with a Euskal ball. And it's precisely the purpose of this government to plan a new strategic plan by the Young and Sports Management. That's how it was reported to the Basque Ball Federation about a month ago and to the World Ball Conference. Both were delighted with the news. This Government has therefore already informed the Basque Federation of Pelota and the World Council of Pelota of its intention to carry out a strategic plan. That news has been very welcome. So it was, that the Basque Federation of Pelota itself did not hesitate for a second to announce it to the Commission of Culture, Euskera, Youth and Sports. In any case, and leaving aside the possible protagonists as to the authorship of the decision to carry out a strategic plan, the important thing is that we all agree on the need to draw up such a plan. In this way, it is our intention to begin the necessary process in the near future so that we can start drawing up such a strategic plan from September onwards, and it is expected to be completed by the end of summer 2016. As was done on the previous occasion, it is intended to carry out a preliminary phase of gathering quantitative information through federations, clubs, municipalities and parliaments, to then conduct interviews with experts and agents operating in the sector. Subsequently, different discussion groups will be established in order to know the real situation of the Basque ball in Euskadi and to create a good diagnosis of the situation that allows us to identify weaknesses, challenges, strengths and opportunities, to then reflect and develop a future strategy. To make the diagnosis of the current situation of the Basque ball, each of the four levels of sport practice in which the Basque sport model is divided, i.e. school sport, participation sport, performance sport and high performance sport, will be analyzed. This deep study of the Basque ball's situation will enable us to make a thorough diagnosis. And thanks to this diagnosis, we can design the strategic frame that will contain strategic furrows and specific actions. The budgets of these acts must also be determined. Once the strategic plan is accepted, it will have to be developed in conjunction with the operations of the Euscal ball range. So, Mr. Barrio, as you can see, we agree to prepare for the need for an extra plan of the Esscal ball that will set up the exact sequence of action in order to push the eucalyptus ball in 2020.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u95	Thank you very much. Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. I am pleased that we share the need and the fact that we need to work on the elaboration of this strategic plan, in relation to the critical situation commented by the leaders of the Basque Federation of Pelota, and the fact that it is an ideal framework for carrying out this accurate diagnosis in relation to the current situation. Indeed, that is the case, and that is why our motion, I believe, will help to focus on the issue, to make the matter important from Parliament too in relation to the strategic plan, and to make, around the motion that we announce as a result of this inquiry, a public debate that I believe will be constructive and of reference, in order to lay the foundations for this new strategic plan that must be launched. And that is why the issue is important. It was clear that economic aspects were being discussed. Indeed, there is the very significant decline in economic funds in sport during these years, but, being so, now that you can recover part of the lost, it is also a time to make future commitments. If we do not do so, no one will do so in relation to these issues; it is part of our sports culture, of our signs of identity, and in that sense there will be no reordering of that sport unless we do so. In other disciplines we already know where the issues are defined, in areas higher than ours, but here, either it is us, or it is no one, and then that critical situation can already be lethal, or terminal situation. I mean, in this sense I think it is necessary to get to work. The Basque sport model, exactly, that's what the ball means, that's what it identifies with, and, of course, that's what we have to do. The strategic plan will also be and must be, in what is a complex and complicated and problematic federative framework in relation to the Basque ball, with complications and with problems and with disagreements..., the elaboration, the approach, the approach of that strategic plan can be an area of encounter to overcome precisely those disagreements detected, which we are also analysing in this Parliament. That is, that, in addition to promoting the sport of the Basque ball, because this is going to be the fundamental objective, and to do so in view of the future and its consolidation and its improvement and its modernisation and its renewal (there is no doubt that this must be the case), it must also have a special quality this strategic plan: not only the purely quantitative, sporting aspect, but it must also have an area, an aspect, an importance, a link of union, an area of encounter of a dissociated world, which is the federative world of the Basque ball, of a world with problems, with many mistrusts, with many inabilitys of agreement and communication. And that's important. Precisely for these things to go well, it is necessary to unify criteria, it is necessary to unify attitudes and it is necessary more confidence, less personalism is needed. And that, of course, can establish a strategic plan of these characteristics, it can be an area of encounter (it may be, let's hope so), but, indeed, besides, to promote the sport of the Basque ball are necessary important issues in that strategic plan, which are the redemption of the modalities of which is always talked about (but, well, it seems that nothing can be done at the moment), the involvement of agents and clubs in that field of encounter, the federative redemption, the role in addition to clubs and sportsmen, and what it has to do with the sports professions in these matters, which we will also have to talk about at some point in this legislature. Well, those are fundamental issues. I am glad that the intention of the Government may be to work in this line that some of us understand necessary and that the Basque Federation also understands as necessary. We will put forward a motion to make the debate as constructive as possible, and to assist the Government in that work in the near future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u96	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u97	Mr. Barrio, as I have described in my first intervence, we agree that we need to prepare one of the strategic plans for the ball. So when we do the strategic plan, just like we've always done, and as you've just mentioned, we'll get in touch with everybody who has something to say in the ball world. So we'll work together, the institutions, the ball-federings, and the ball-clubs and the associations. We shall examine the situation between them all, and we shall have to determine the end, the strategic furrow, and the actions to which they will be directed towards the future. In addition, we call it important to follow the proper course of the plan, in order that we may be able to examine its efficacy, and to know the degree of execution of the ends which are planned in it. As we have said, according to our predictions, we shall be able to continue our work in September 2015, and hope to end it in September 2016. Therefore, Mr Barrio, as I said in my first speech, it is our intention to draw up a new strategic plan for the Basque ball that systematically and structuredly collects the necessary measures to promote the development of this sport for the period 2016-2020. This document will have to meet the following objectives: to know the current situation of the Basque ball in Euskadi; to identify the next challenges and opportunities to respond to them; to reflect on and develop a strategy for a participatory future; to identify objectives and strategic lines; and to identify actions and projects that allow the achievement of the defined strategic lines. Also, in order to analyze the scope and effectiveness of the aforementioned plan, it is considered essential to launch a follow-up commission that will be responsible for leading its implementation and ensuring that the objectives proposed are met, all with the main objective of promoting the Basque ball in its different modalities and in the different segments of sports practice. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. fourteen points in theme list: "The question is, that the parliamentary members of the American Society of Carmelo Barrio Barroja, made to the chief physician of education, politics, and Cultural Society, are tramitating the projects of laws which have not been made in the field of culture and sport." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u99	Thank you, President. Counselor. Well, this is also a question to frame, to inform us. There are three (in his department there are four, but one is more in the educational field), there are three bills announced by the Basque Government in the field of culture and sports for this year 2015: the draft law on documents and archives of Euskadi, which is expected to be delivered in this semester, that of cultural heritage of the Basque Country, and also another that has been waiting, because it is important, because we also know the problem, that of exercising the professions of the Basque Country sport. And these in the second half of 2015. We have seen that from the initial forecasts, therefore, one of the projects seems to have been delayed. We have been able to see that the draft heritage law has been delayed in the forecasts of the Government's calendar, on its date of surrender to Parliament, and we believe that the facts have shown that it is necessary, because we have seen it in many matters, point-by-point issues (when we have talked about certain monuments, or qualifications, or buildings...), but that we need, of course, a legal instrument in this case, more effective and up-to-date, modernised, for the defence of our cultural heritage. What we have has been shown to be insufficient, and a new bill on these issues is needed in this regard. It is also of great importance – because we find that sports professionals need more security and there is still an important area of action – that the draft law on sports professions, due to the need, I say again, of legal security of the people who operate in the world of sport. These are important, relevant issues. There are three bills, they are not yet in this House, some of them have been delayed, some of them have to be close to entering, but we would like to know, in this area of culture and sport, what concerns your department, in what state of affairs are the drafts of the bills referred to so that they can be approved in this legislature. Which probably comes later in the summer we will already see, but, well, we want to know, in that regard, in those three bills, what the working situation is, because we consider it important to work on those legal instruments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u100	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u101	Andrea president. Mr. Barrio, first and foremost, I must say that I am very glad that you also possess the importance and necessity of these three projects. As you know, the United States Council accepted the legislative program for the tenth year of the New Year in June 2013. It's a program that says what purpose and priority it's going to have when you're talking about it. So it's a flexible and open tool that can handle changes to suit the needs. Additionally, there is also a tool placed in the name of transparency. By this instrument, opposition, society, and the legislature are given the possibility of continuing the conduct of the government. It is therefore an open and flexible transparency tool, which allows for monitoring of government policy planning and action. In fact, a follow-up document is produced every six months, which is forwarded to this Parliament. In addition, the website provides timely information on the progress of legislative projects, government plans and departmental plans. In any case, Mr Barrio, since you ask me about the state of play of the draft laws that this department is dealing with in the field of culture and sport, I will tell you that the three projects you mention are progressing according to the latest update of the legislative calendar. It is therefore our intention to refer these bills to the Governing Council in this exercise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u103	Thank you, President. I say again, the bills are important, and it is necessary to act on that matter, those matters, in this legislature, because... That is to say, one of them, of archives, for this semester, but for the second semester the two most important from our point of view, which is that of cultural heritage, which is a necessary bill, much needed for the management of our heritage, and that of sports professions, in the same way. So I would ask you not to be late at the end of the year, let it be in September, to be possible, when these bills arrive, because from October, as you well know, we enter the budgets, everything slows down, everything is delayed, everything is paralyzed, and there are two bills, especially those of Basque cultural heritage, and that of sports professions, which we need to integrate as soon as possible. You yourself say that in the field of cultural heritage a broader conception of cultural heritage is needed, an updated, comprehensive and systematized normative instrument. And as far as sport is concerned too: legal certainty for sports professions. It's an important thing. Let's hope that in September or the first half of October they're here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u104	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u105	For us, these three legal projects are urgent, and we will make all our efforts to get ahead of the scheduled deadlines. As to the law of the Cultural Family, the object of which is to give society an updates, a whole, and a system-tractized instrument, to give a wider view of the Dominion of culture. The arts of management which will be established by this law will give a effective answer to the protection, preservation, and extension of the region of culture. At this moment, having published the order to begin the process of passing the law, we are preparing the legal report of the department with the intention to begin the phase of negotiation, hearing, and consulting. We'll be able to send the bill to the government Council in the second semester of 2015. The law of documents and archives of the Basque Country aims to lay the foundations for the configuration of an integrated system of management of analog and electronic documents and archives, as well as for the creation of the historical archive of Euskadi. Once the hearing and public information procedure has been completed, the relevant amendments have been incorporated. Efforts will be made to bring this bill up to the Governing Council in June. Finally, we have a law on sports work. By this law, the essential parts of some sports professions will be organized, and those professions will be determined, and will be represented by the necessary academic titles, and the general scope of function to which each profession belongs. At this moment the following phase of hearing and consulting is over, and, considering all the premises, we are preparing a joint text, so that we can send the Government to the Council as soon as possible and accept it there. So, Mr. Barrius, there has already been a great deal of work to do, and our intention is to send these three laws to the Council of Government in 2015, in order to accept them in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Socialists, made to the chief physician of Education, of Language politics, and of the Cultural Division, about another Eustau radio strike." Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, good days to all. I would like to begin by expressing the solidarity of the Socialist Group with the media professionals, both public and private, who are now being fired and who are mobilizing to express their protest. Gure elkartas una iratietako langileekin. Socialists defend the social role of the media, whether public or private, to guarantee the right to plural information that resides in citizens and that is carried out through professionals who must carry out their tasks free and without pressure, and without threat of dismissal or precariousness. And if we are concerned that this threat will continue, even though some claim that the worst of the crisis has happened, we are even more concerned that its enforcement arm is a public enterprise, paid with citizens' taxes, that it must provide a public service and that it must attend to what this Parliament representing citizens tells it. This week Eusko Irratia has returned to silence; he did so on Monday, and he may also do so on Sunday. The mandate of this leadership will pass on to history as the one that has ever generated the greatest conflict, and it does so with an instrument – an ERE – that, as the affected people have already announced, will follow the judicial path. That is why we are asking you, Commissioner, what the Government is going to do to ensure that the conflict on Basque public radio for the management's actions ceases to affect the provision of this service to citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u108	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u109	President andrea. Mr Unzalu, you insist on asking about the process of regularizing non-fixed indefinite EITB. I believe that we have already provided all possible explanations in this regard, both in writing and through various parliamentary interventions, in addition to those provided within the Governing Council, of which you are a member. I've told you several times that the call of public employment on the Basque radio is necessary to regularize the situation of a specific professional worker, and to ensure EIB's future andability. That's why I'm protected by the decision of EIB, the decision to reform irregular situations, and carry the process of filling fixed jobs with all its guarantees. This government, the direction of EIB and most of the organizational councils respect and protect this process. The reason for this is clear: according to the needs and budgets of the previews, the necessity for regularizing the state of EIB employees, according to their predictable needs and budget options. Perhaps I should remind you that this situation is not new. In 2009 and 2010, the Social Security Inspectorate required regularization of the situation of employed workers, which dramatically affected the sustainability of the environment. You yourself, being in the government, announced the need for this regularization in 2010. The process has subsequently been implemented, a process which was approved by a qualitative two-thirds majority in the Governing Council, in which, by the way, the three representatives of the Basque Socialist Party did not refuse, but voted blankly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u111	Look, counselor, listen carefully to the question. I haven't asked you about the ERE and everything you've told us, which you've already told us here several times. I have asked you specifically what your Government is going to do, what you are going to do to put an end to the conflict on Radio Euskadi, which is bringing about changes and loss of public service. That's what I asked you, that, and not about the ERE, that I already know everything you've told me. Are you going to do something? Look, Commissioner, this parliamentary group and this Parliament cannot understand what is happening to you, what reasons you have to penalise, to harass public radio in such a blunt and cruel way, and more specifically the radio that broadcasts in Spanish and the professionals who do so. In this case you, the Government as a whole, have totally inhibited the problem. We have tried, through direct initiatives, to get you involved, to get various departments involved. We have asked the Public Service Advisor to take the same action in Eusko Irratia that he has announced for the General Administration. We ask the Employment Adviser, Ángel Toña, to apply these negotiating measures in the case of Eusko Irratia, supported by his negotiating record. And what is the most abysmal difference with what this Councillor has expressed today in response to the first question in this plenary, emphasizing his negotiating capacity and how he has been able to devoke even strikes. That is what we are asking you, Madam Counsellor: to act in that way, that between you to act in Eusko Irratia as you do on other occasions. That's what we're asking. Not that I come here to tell you what's going on with the ERE. That's not what I'm asking! It is clear, Madam Counsellor, that EITB's management is incapable of negotiating, is incapable of reaching agreements. That's why we're asking you, as the head of this entity, because your department is responsible for the Basque radio station, to act. Let you lower the labor conflictivity, let Eusko Irratia emit freely. And I ask you, counselor, to answer me with what you think, and not with what you have written beforehand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u112	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u113	Mr. Unzalu, one thing is what I think, but I don't think it's the most important thing sometimes. The handling of an organization which has these features makes complex decisions with it, establishing and rationalizing priority. And all this is the end of all this to guarantee the effective management of the means we have acquired, on the one hand, and to guarantee the permanence of the organization. When EIB's board decided to call the public offer for employment in April 2014, it was already known that such a measure would cause difficulties, and probably conflicts; The union, such as complaints, or strikes, to demand that the decision of the administration should be cancelled. The advanced democratic communities respect and respect the activity of the unions. But the organs of conduct ought also to be respected in the right and proper decisions. In any case, it is clear that this is a complex and delicate process, which inevitably involves a situation of joy for those who join the project and of sadness for those who leave. Both the management of EITB and the Board of Directors are aware of this. For this reason, a timetable for action has been established which has been reported to the last Board of Directors, which envisages the implementation of a reception and exit protocol, with the aim of addressing not only the formal aspects but also the personal ones. Finally, the management of a public body such as EITB also involves other more positive aspects which should also be remembered in this House, Mr Unzalu. As, for example, in relation to the issue before us, the fact that the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country has endorsed this process. Or in another order of things, but also important, the fact that Euskadi Irratia has obtained its best audience levels in history, according to the latest CIS measurement, reaching the top of 149,000 listeners. Two interesting and positive news for the EITB group. And this work of trying to pacify and eliminate conflictivity I believe is not only part of the Administration, but of all the people involved, and of you as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, Mien Galastegui Oyarzábal, a member of the Social Department of Social Security, with rubber balls permanently supplanting him as material against riots." Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u115	Thank you again, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, counselor, your department, the Government, have a simple, simple, simple mandate: the immediate restriction and permanent replacement of rubber balls as anti-disturbing material in the Ertzaintza, to avoid harmful means; to ensure the effectiveness in the work of the agents, and also to be required to train them in the management of the new anti-disturbing instruments to ensure their safety and that of the citizens. In short, three principles: caution, security and effectiveness in dealing with these violent situations that require police intervention. Principles that have only been rejected in this House by a group, those that do not want the Ertzaintza to act, but approved by all the other parliamentary groups, including the one that supports the Government. And that is what appears in the minutes of the plenary session of 16 April. But it turns out that three weeks later, on 6 May, the director of the Ertzaintza says that he is not in favour of this parliamentary mandate being implemented. The director of the Ertzaintza is a position expressly appointed by you, and is at your express orders. I do not want to think, Counselor, that you are going to neglect what is approved by the vote of the Lehendakari himself in this House. And I am also convinced that you are also interested in complying with the principles I have pointed out to you: caution, security and effectiveness. That is why we ask him: When will rubber balls be replaced as anti-disturbing material, as required by this Parliament and most of the citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u117	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mrs Gallastegui, look, I have the impression that the excuse for the Ertzaintza director's statements has come to you as a finger ring. It is distorting, or at least taking those statements out of context and partially using them. I stayed on the 16th of April, after listening to her, I remained with the feeling that she would have liked to be more forceful, to ask for the prohibition of spearheads, but that she chose to stay with the words restriction and substitution. I have already said before, in a question put to me by Mr Maneiro, that we are on it, Mrs Gallastegui. But I assure you that not only in this: we are also fulfilling other strategic objectives and decisions that are perhaps firmer and deeper than simply replacing one material with another. The Ertzaintza, as I said before, is constantly working to improve its techniques, tactics and the preparation of intervention operations, always with a clear objective: to confront all expressions of violence, however complex they may be, in order to guarantee to the maximum the security of the citizens and also that of the agents themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u118	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Let us see, Madam Counsellor, it is not a question of strength or not; it is a question that you must fulfil parliamentary mandates. And what I'm telling you is that the director of the Ertzaintza quietly says he's not in favor of fulfilling them. And what we're asking you is whether you're in favour of fulfilling them or not. Because, regardless of whether it is or not, the Government is obliged to fulfil parliamentary mandates. It's that simple. Then he didn't tell me anything else. Indeed, we tell him that we must remove from the Ertzaintza (and that includes the Mobile Brigade) the anti-disturbing materials that have been removed, and that they would in fact already be gone if the socialist government had continued to govern, in the same way as has already been announced before. You have done nothing at this time, and what we are asking of you, counselor, is to do so. Because what exactly the text that was adopted in this Parliament says is that the current spearheads should disappear from the Ertzaintza, and the Ertzaintza includes all brigades. Not just citizen security; the Mobile Brigade too. That is, you have an obligation to replace that anti-disturbing system, which is not the object of the discussion, but the object of the discussion is whether or not you, you and your Government, are going to fulfil the parliamentary mandate, whether you are going to do it or not, and are going to remove and restrict the use of all this material. The problem is: Is the director of the Ertzaintza who is going to direct the department's lines of action? Is it the director of the Ertzaintza, who is not asked for an opinion, who is going to decide whether or not this government fulfils parliamentary mandates? In short, counselor, the question is very simple, it is as simple as the mandate itself. I mean, when? When? You don't have to tell me an exact date, because that "We're on it", what does it mean?, when you've already advanced before, in the intervention...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u121	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I am surprised, because two signatories of the same agreement today I have heard two different interpretations. You must also clarify what you want to move with the agreement. In any case, Mrs. Gallastegui, you regulated the use of spearheads, and you started the purchase file of the least harmful material, what we call spearheads. It took them more than a year and a half, between the acquisition of the first units and their final purchase, at the end of 2012. He talks in his presentation about 4,000 officers, but the fact is that the bulk of the training work we have done in this legislature. And, consequently, it has also been in this legislature that police officers have been removed from their lanzapelotas, replaced by lanzabolas and restricted to the use of lanzapelotas exclusively to special units, i.e. the Mobile Brigade. He also dared to say that in this legislature he has not detected any progress, as if the only possible progress was that of replacing one weapon with another, but he has not bothered to listen to the director of the Ertzaintza, although today he has served as an excuse for this debate. Today, thanks to the decisions of the Strategic Plan of the Ertzaintza Horizonte 2016, we have a better equipped comprehensive police, better assembled in our social reality; the agents and agents of the Mobile Brigade have appropriate vests and anti-trauma protectors to deal with complex situations; the lanzabolas have already been subject to modifications of improvement even proposed by the agents themselves; we have a well-defined instruction of use; no training on lanzapelotas is provided except to those units that could, exceptionally, use it right now. Therefore, their use is absolutely prohibited outside the scope of the regulated restriction, and in fact they have no longer been used in what we are in the legislature. In short, the replacement of lanzapelotas by lanzabolas has been a further contribution (one more contribution) to the design of a better prepared, equipped and adapted police force to the situation in Euskadi. We are, therefore, Mrs Gallastegui, much closer to what this parliamentary proposal raises than you have ever been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u122	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Jul's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors made for the head of the Security Department, the management of the operating system against the seven young wrongfully punished by the National Court." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u123	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon. The anti-democratic justice of an anti-democratic state follows that political euscal Militantes are judged and punished by their political and transparent work, especially those who are young. The prisons are filling up again with the rebellious youth. This is becoming unrest and indiscretion in the vast sectors of society. Unfortunately, it's becoming a border-inflict to refill the prisons or to complete the right channel. Only 28 young men were judged, but they were punished. The incriminations which had been tortured were the support of seven of them for a six-year sentence. Xabat Moran, Marina Sagastizabal, Ainhoa Villaverde and Bergoi Madernaz were arrested on 6 May by the Ertzaintza, even before they were notified of the sentence, a judgment that is not final and will also be appealed. There was no risk of escape. For this reason, his family members have filed four complaints of illegal detention with the courts of Gasteiz and Bilbo. I repeat: there was no risk of escape. The reason for Ertzaintza's unlawful conduct of this detention is clear: Ertzaintza has no reasonable methods in the face of acts of peaceful disobedience in protest of these arrests. He clearly demonstrated this in the Gasteizko Herri Harresia, where hundreds of people showed their active but peaceful solidarity to Aiala Zaldibar, Igarki Robles and Ibon Esteban. Really, counselor, did you find it appropriate, proportional, congruent, the operation that carried out the Ertzaintza on the past 17, a few meters, a few meters from here? Are you proud of that operation?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u124	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u125	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Arzuga, you're specialists making homework. Don't do your own things, always at the expense of others. The order of the National Court was clear: location, notification of the sentence, and communication of his entry into provisional detention. And, in fact, four of the persons sought for justice were located, the sentence was communicated to them, they were arrested, and they were taken to Zaballa prison, and two others managed to evade the detention. They immediately set up the machinery to stage his arrest and seek confrontation with the Ertzaintza. That's the reality. The Ertzaintza fulfilled its obligation. It is not the responsibility of the Ertzaintza to prejudge judgements or court orders. The Ertzaintza had no interest in arresting a neighbour of Nafarroa, for example, if the person in question had not had an explicit interest in being arrested by the Ertzaintza. The Ertzaintza, before starting the eviction, invited those present to avoid any situation that complicated the arrests, and the persons under arrest had all the opportunities they wanted to be able to solve the situation in another way, less dramatic, less choreographed, less used as the object of window and political desire. Some did, didn't they?But others chose what is already well known: antifaces, wigs, paintings, ropes, chains..., everything that occurred to them at those preparatory meetings, and well accompanied by shouts, insults and aggressions also to the Ertzaintza. An active, very active resistance, Mr Arzuaga. Disobedient protest, as you said yesterday, yes, but peaceful no. I told him once and I tell him again from this rostrum: it is not good to preach the indifference to others and to be submissive to oneself. Because, tell me, what police do you want, a disobedient police, acting outside the law, only when it suits you?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u126	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u127	In Beltrán de Heredia, the City Wall is not a machinery, it's not a strategy. The answer to the indication or the result spontaneous. If only it should not be arranged! You talk of dramatization, that's all peaceful dramaization. This must not be underlined again. The boys were all empty-handed in front of the whole mess of the mobile brigade, that's what we could see. A wild edge violence is what you want to justify. Apart from these three young men who had been ordered to arrest him, there were 20 other people arrested and 70 wounded. That's where you see violence from. In addition to the images of violence, we saw other pitiful pictures: the heads of the young men entered the fountains, or tried to help the wounded with the edge of the field. If this be done in the sight of all, what will they not do when no one looks? A neighbor to whom the Ertzaintza did not let the wounded who was causing the operation, spat out the angry ertzainas: "I have the right to be outraged! I have the right to be outraged!". We share that indignation, we share that feeling. We have the right to be outraged at the performance of the Ertzaintza. The origin of the operation was illegitimate, that decision of the National Court; the arrest of Moran, Sagastizabal, Villaverde and Madernaz was illegal, and the attack on the peaceful attitude of the Herri Harresia of Gasteiz was absolutely inadequate, disproportionate. Anyone with minimal sensitivity sees it that way. Madam Counsellor, is this the Ertzaintza of proximity? Is this the Ertzaintza for coexistence, the objective of that peace plan initiative? Is this the Ertzaintza for a new time? That's my question.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u128	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u129	Look, Mr. Arzuaga, I told you before, it was a whole liturgy, also responding to the truce of the act, the electoral act... Curiously, a lot of resistance, chained people... The first detainee had to be chained to another seven persons, because it was not possible to open the chains at the site and the detention could not be extended further. But, look, curiously, upon arriving at the police station, curiously, when there were no more cameras, the solution, the triggering simple, immediate. The liturgy had already ended. They filled the square with orange t-shirts, orange handkerchiefs, which came very well to them in that electoral use (e-lec-to-ral) of the act, but, as I say, once that liturgy was finished, they all complied with the law. They complied with the law. Mr. Arzuaga, there are things that seem to have not changed, or that some have not evolved. Seek constant confrontation with the Ertzaintza. And, I told you before, submission yes, but for others, for others. Complying with the law does, when there are no cameras. Is that the reality of the act they were looking for?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u130	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interlation of Arti Zulaika Portillo, the law of the Union, made to the head of the Medical Department, the law of Social Security, concerning the legal discipline of the silent professions." Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. And good morning to all. It is the subject which affects the health of the workers and in general the health rights of society to-day. The Reformation of the Populative Party has made another step towards a strong public system, and the privatization of health; but it certainly is a great step forward to the reductions of the civil health of the workers. We're talking about the final reform of the Social Security Law. On the 18th of December, in Congress, the reform of the Social Security Law was adopted, which belongs to the legal regime of the dumb offices and professions. But, as we hoped, this reform is not made for the benefit of the workmen, nor has the Popular Party once more sanctioned it for the benefit of the patrician. This reform will produce enormous changes in the management of the health of the workers. But not only in this, but also in the management of the health of society. Among the principal changes of the Reformation, we have the following: First of all, the mutes' name has changed. From the dumbness of labor and profession the mutes of Social Security have become co-conspirators. But the change of the name is not important. The important thing is that the most important object behind the name's change is that the mutes in common events (out of work and accidents) should have manual handling. That's what you want with time. And in front of this, our first refusal. On the one hand, because we believe that the Social Security must not increase its collaboration with the dumb, quite contrary. And, on the other hand, because it extends the field of action of the dumb, in the direction of the public medical system. As for temporary impotence, the dumb will have more power to control, to continue, and to press, to end the state of the baja. And in this line, the most significant changes have occurred. When they consider it appropriate, they will have the opportunity to make proposals for medical discharge for the medical inspection of public health services. Another important change: the medical inspection of public health services must inform the mutual and the INSS, within a maximum of five working days, of the issue of the discharge or its refusal. In the event that the public health service rejects the proposal of the mutual or does not reply in form and time, the mutual may request the INSS, which must reply within four days. And another important change, perhaps the most important for us: the dumb will be able to call workers on health examination from the first day of the farm. And if the worker does not go to his study (it's all right why, for what reason), it's a chance to break off the case. Then the workman will have four days to justify the reason of not going, and, if he does not do it properly, the temporary state of impotence will become extinct. And mutuals will also have the right to access to the clinical history of workers. And the medical staff of the public system will have tables of standard duration by pathologies, as they already do or as mutuals already work, so that they have guidance to discharge. And these are just a few of the changes that this reform entails, which, although they seem to be only a few technical changes, are quiet changes, which will directly affect the health of the whole of society in general, and the health of workers in particular. In the motivation of the Reformation, it shows that the rate of absentism is a reform that decreases, and this cannot be motivation at all. This reform presupposes the character of fraud to the workers. Besides, data shows us that the rate of absence is lower and lower. In fact, because of the last form of work, the workers, even if they're on food, can be fired, a lot of people go sick to work. The opposite situation is just happening, that is, anatomism, in private business or in public. Besides, this may give other workmen serious consequences in general to the health of society. So we are also against this end. We don't agree at all. All this is to make a distinction in favor of corporations, in prejudice to the health of society. The second is that bureaucraticization will decrease. Well, that's a lie, too. It'll be the opposite. The professional members of the board will have a lot more work to do for the silent. And the most important thing is that all this will be done with public money. Instead of investing them in a powerful public system, the public funds open the gates to the medical priorization. This is the principal purpose of this reform in a middle term, the dualization of the health system, in which the workers will have private health management through the mutes, and the health of others will be managed to co-exist. This is the principal aim behind this reform: not only in the management of professional events, but also in the management of economic preparations, or even in the capacity of alcats and beans. And that sounds very serious to us. Besides, as the dumb will be a direct collaborator of Social Security, it will be the priority of the workers in making diagnostic tests on the health system. But not because more resources will be put in motion, but because it is the object of the patronal as soon as possible for the workers. What's that gonna bring? That people who don't work (simpleists, jobless, other people) should be secondary patients. So this reform, as I have said, will affect the health of the whole society. The professionalism of the members of the family is questionable. The doctors will be under pressure to respond as briefly as possible to the alta-proposies. The doctor's work charge will increase visibly. And another serious conclusion: it will be fatal to the workmen' health. As we have said, the workers are more and more afraid that they will not be fired, and this leads to more and more workmen, though they are ill, to go to work. So it can be very pernicious for their lives. It's a law against the right of health. It's a law that brings the health management of workers. So he's gonna reduce the health rights of the workers, and it's going to increase the staff charge because they're going to have to do more work for the mutes. That's why we interact with the health chief, Mr. Darpón. What are you going to do to keep this unjust law from hurting people's health?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon. Zulaika anderea, Law 35/2014, of 26 December, amending the consolidated text of the General Law on Social Security in relation to the Legal Regime of Mutuals of Occupational Accidents and Occupational Diseases of Social Security, popularly known as the "Law on Mutuals", to which it refers in its inquiry, is legislation of Social Security, and therefore basic legislation. The text amends a specific part of the consolidated text of the General Social Security Act, approved by Royal Legislative Decree 1/94 of 20 June. In particular, the share that belonged to the mutual partners with Social Security. Paragraph 1 of its single article provides for changes in the definition of mutuals in their object, constitution, economic-financial regime, governing and participating bodies, assets, contracting regime, dissolution and liquidation, powers of the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, and the rest of the General Law on Social Security remains the same. Nothing in paragraph 1 of its single article, which is the basis and most of the content of the law, affects public health systems. The laws you have mentioned, Madam Zulaika, do not affect public health systems in general. The text, as you have well defined, in your single article has a second paragraph which modifies the eleventh additional provision of the Consolidated Text of the General Law on Social Security, which regulates the management by mutuals of the economic benefit for temporary incapacity arising from common contingencies. This part of the law is narrower than the previous, but its content effectively affects the functions that public health systems carry out in the management of temporary disability due to common contingencies, and we do not like it. From now on, therefore, what I will set out refers exclusively to this second paragraph of the single article of Law 35/2014, which amends the eleventh additional provision. The main changes to this text affecting public services are as follows: First, the response to the mutual discharge proposals must take place within a substantially shorter period of time: as you have already mentioned, a maximum of five days from the date following the date of receipt of the discharge proposal. In addition, this response should be communicated to the INSS. If the public health system does not estimate the proposal for discharge or does not respond within the prescribed period, the mutual from there may request the discharge directly from the INSS, which must be issued within a maximum of four days. Second amendment: communications from the public health system on the one hand, and INSS and mutuals on the other, should preferably be made by electronic means. Third amendment: mutuals become able to carry out diagnostic tests and treatments in order to avoid unnecessary prolongation of temporary incapacity processes resulting from common contingencies of the workers attached to them, with the authorization of the doctor of the public health system and with the consent of the worker. The results of these tests and treatments will be made available to public health system practitioners who assist the worker for inclusion in their clinical history. Fourth amendment: mutual societies may sign agreements and agreements with public health services to carry out medical examinations, diagnostic tests, reports, treatments, including surgical interventions, etc., which health services request. To this end, they will set out economic compensation that public health services will have to satisfy to the mutuals as compensation for the services provided. From the Department of Health of the Basque Government we have expressed our opinion on several occasions, and so has the parliamentary group EAJ-PNV in the Congress of Deputies. To shorten the time limit for responding to mutual proposals, we believe that it may lead to a decrease in the number of responses within the deadlines by the public health system, and consequently to an increase in requests from mutuals to INSS for discharge. And, therefore, we disagree. The proposal of the alta will not be asked again until the answer to the public health system is received. Therefore, this could lead in practice to a derivation of resolutions on discharge proposals from public health services (in this case Osakidetza) to the scope of the INSS, and we will try to avoid it. It is necessary to appeal to enterprises in public health systems, in order to respond in time to alta-proposies. So that the decision of the public system will be the principal part of the proceeding to solve alta-proposies. We therefore consider it appropriate, and we will do so, to take action to ensure that the public health service responds in a timely and rigorous manner to the discharge proposals, so that the pronouncement of the public health service remains the pre-eminent in the procedure for the resolution of the discharge proposals of the mutuals. With regard to electronic interoperability in the communication between healthcare professionals in public health services, mutuals and INSS (another variation), for us it is a positive aspect, as we understand that it will improve the care of workers in temporary disability arising from common contingency. As regards the carrying out of diagnostic tests or treatment of a worker in temporary incapacity arising from the common contingency by a mutual, we understand that if the consent of the compulsory worker is available and the procedure in question is carried out on the basis of the mutual's own funds, we have little to say from the Department of Health, because we understand that what will be done will be to speed up the diagnostic procedure. In addition, the results of tests and treatments carried out in mutual societies should be made available and made available to the public health system's practitioners, so that it can only lead to a more agile and therefore better quality health care for the benefit of the patient. And, having said that, we have repeatedly stated that we do not like the legislative amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u134	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u135	Thank you again, Mr. President. Well, the truth is that I have not been very clear, although Mr Darpón has said that he is going to perform some performances, which will carry out some performances, it has not been very clear to me what they are going to be. With regard to timely response, does that mean that more people are going to be hired? Because obviously, of course, if with the same staff you're going to... I don't know, I wouldn't know how much time or work people, both medical inspection and Osakidetza, will be quantified, but the work will be considerably increased in order to be able to meet all the requirements on the part of the mutuals and all the reports they will have to answer. I don't know if that's going to involve hiring new staff for these tasks. On the other hand, with regard to the diagnostic tests to be carried out (diagnostic tests and examinations) on mutuals, I do not know whether they will then also pay for those tests by Osakidetza, because it is one of the complaints made by the workers, that with public money, well, it is going to derive to private health part of all those tests, also in the common contingencies. On 28 April, which was International Labour Health Day, all the unions went out on the street and all coincided, in different acts and mobilizations, in a common demand: to denounce the Law on Mutuals, because, among others, it means cutting workers' occupational health, and it also means opening the doors to the privatization of the public health system. And from EH Bildu we also want to denounce this law, because we obviously agree with that trade union claim. We believe that it is one more step; that, although this reform is not being achieved now, we will soon see new reforms in that direction, which is another step towards the dualisation of the health system, in which, as I said in my first intervention, on the one hand, people who are not active will be treated in Osakidetza, and on the other hand, it will be left in the hands of private health, in the hands of mutuals and private entities at the service of employers and employers, occupational health.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u137	Madam Zulaika, looking at further details, I shall mention several measures laid by the Medical Department in front of the changes which this law has produced. We are already enabling a new system of electronic communication between the mutual societies and our public health system, in particular through the medical inspections of the Department of Health, encrypted and with limited access functions, to replace the traditional methods used so far; which, as a first step, we believe will facilitate the reception of discharge proposals in the medical inspection and the response from the inspection to the mutual societies. In principle, until we have it in place, we are working on the idea that it will serve to maintain Osakidetza's proportion of responses, despite the legal shortening of the deadlines provided for in Law 35/2014. In any case, even if they were answered in time, and if the answer was negative to the discharge proposal, the mutuals with this new law can always repeat the proposal before the INSS and start the cycle again, which we do not like either. It wasn't like that before. This is a change which this new law presupposes. Moreover, the reduced availability of time to respond, and the fact that a response from the public health system that is not satisfactory can provoke a new proposal before the INSS, means – and we understand this – a transfer of our competences in the public health system to the INSS that we do not like. Efforts are currently being made to enable electronic access to the medical record of the public health system by physicians from the provincial branches of INSS. This access will be limited, and will only be available for those workers in temporary disability due to common contingency, and only for the duration of that temporary disability episode, and only for the affected episode. It is not envisaged to give access, for the time being, to the doctors of the mutuals. This Department of Health works in line with the fact that it is its medical inspection that receives the requests for authorization from the mutuals to carry out diagnostic tests and treatments and decides on their authorization, which we do not plan to pay. As for the assessment that we make from this department of the amendment of the law, we can say that the conduct of diagnostic tests and treatments by the mutuals – I will repeat this again –, provided that the patient gives his consent and the result is available to the doctors of the public health system, does not necessarily imply a decrease in the quality of the assistance provided, nor any violation of their rights. In this sense, Law 35/2014 itself already clearly states – and I read textually – that "in no case will the tests and treatments involve the assumption of the provision of health care resulting from common contingencies, nor will the provision of resources for the latter". We mustn't forget that the worker has to agree first. That the shortening in the time frame of the public health system to the proposals for discharge of the mutuals, and the possibility of repeating the proposal before the INSS if it is not answered or answered negatively, we consider it a step in favor of the management of the temporary disability by common contingency by the mutuals, which we do not like, and we will take measures to compensate it from the public health system. In this sense, this measure was already anticipated in Royal Decree 625/2014 of 18 July, which regulates certain aspects of the management and control of processes due to temporary disability. In short, the Department of Health shows its willingness to continue to maintain the management of temporary disability due to common contingency in the public health system, from the confidence in the rigour of the work of its doctors in this area. In this regard, we do not find it exaggerated to point out that all legislative developments in recent years in the field of temporary disability have devalued the functions of public health services with regard to the management of temporary disability by common contingency. But – for us most importantly – we demand the need to address the transfer of the economic regime from Social Security to Euskadi, including mutuals in their supervision and control. We believe that this is the best formula for building a Basque social protection framework, which clearly sets out the work of mutual societies and the public health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u138	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Rebeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collect Group for the head physician, the unit for magnetic resonance in the Arrastal Hospital." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u139	Good noon, everyone. What we want to know today is what the Medical Department intends to do about opening the new magnetic resonance unit. That is to say, whether he intends to open the new drive for magnetic resonance at the Hotel debbat's Hospital. Why do we say this? He's just opened a new unit in the hospital at the U.S. Center, and we've still got a truck in the Higuegagagagare Hospital for magnetic resonance. As you know, the Debaren Hospital is new, it was opened in 2012, supposed to improve health services, their movements, transfers, and other hospitals, to make improvements in space. After all, get the benefits to the Hotel debaare. But today, what we're seeing is that the activity of the new hospital isn't necessary, that activity, performance, is down. And we think it's a shame. We have a new hospital, enormous spaces, which can be more useful to us, and it still seems incomprehensible to us that we still have a truck in it for magnetic resonances. We could understand how to use the truck in a transition phase, but at this moment it's quite incomprehensible to us when we have the new hospital right there. It seems to us that the existing spaces can be taken advantage of to open a unit, and, after all, to guide the quality of the health service to the improvements and improvements. So today is what we want to know from the Medical Department and see what Mr. Darpón says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u141	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners. Ubera anderea, Osakidetza has no intention today, as you know from this year's budget, there is no intention to open a new magnetic resonance unit in OSI Debagoiena, because it considers that the need for these diagnostic tests in the health region today is satisfactorily covered. We don't think we need to start a unit like this right now. Moreover, the services which have hitherto been given in the field of magnetic resonance have been fulfilled in an accessable and comfortable manner by the patients of this area. Our support for the region I think is well known. As you know, there is a new hospital in the region, and that new hospital was planned in a legislature where this party also ruled, which was then continued by the Socialist Party in the past legislature. Also in the past legislature, specifically since December 2011, a concert was held with a diagnostic center for the provision of magnetic resonance studies to patients in the health area of Gipuzkoa, initially patients of OSI Debagoiena and OSI Goierri-Alto Urola, which neither of them had magnetic resonance. Today, the purpose of this concert, with the hiring of diagnostic studies of nuclear magnetic resonance, is to improve in an efficient way the accessibility of people in the Debagoian District. As in all contracts, it also includes quality conditions that must be present in the contracted service. The health department looks at the conditions under which the useful service is paid, and so it is in all other services which are hired with external requirements.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u142	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u143	You understand, we don't share your opinion. We don't think it's the quality that should be offered, nor those tests, those magnetic resonances, even when we do it. And it's not just the opinion of EH Collect, but this opinion has come to us from professionals. So it seems to us that we are to consider it, and that in that sense this Department of Health ought to deliberate and rethink it; and in the next year (for I suppose you are already preparing your budgets) to open a new unit for magnetic resonance in the Hotel Hospital. And, really, we're worried. A new hospital, yes, but we see that activity, social surrender, decreases, the patients' transfers are getting more and more to the other hospitals and other services. So, we think this health department has to focus on the Debola. And we'd invite him to come up there and see what reality really is. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u145	Well, as you know, in December 2014, the Department of Health put into operation through Osatek a new magnetic resonance at OSI Goierri-Alto Urola, which lacked it, the result of a budgetary agreement with the Socialist Party, which we share and are sure has improved service to people in that region. This has also allowed the full-time concerted mobile unit to be dedicated to OSI Debagoiena. If you allow me and you take out the costs per citizen, in a few regions, with the population that has the District of Debagoia, and after the construction of the new hospital, both the assistance as a whole has been improved. A magnetic resonance is an expensive equipment, both in its acquisition and in its maintenance, which comes to account annually for almost 10% of the cost price. The cost of the latest machines that Osatek has installed and that serve Osakidetza patients ranges from around 750,000 to 1.2 million euros. As you can see, we are talking about very important investments, which need to be planned in order to be cost-effective and to ensure an intensive occupation that optimizes the investment made, even more so in today's times. In the year 2014 it was made, in the mobile unit for which you ask, 3,412 explorations at OSI Alto Deba, and 6,159 at OSI Goierri-Alto Urola. The mobile unit, now installed on a fixed basis at OSI Debagoiena, has carried out, in this first quarter of 2015, 1,165 explorations. And it is not because the advisor says so: it is a volume of explorations that hardly justifies the investment today, and it needs a more efficient solution than the installation of a fixed resonance, so that people in the region continue to access these tests without displacement, in what we agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u146	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The twentieth point in the theme list: "The question is that the members of the Dava Blanco de Angulo EH Collect are made to the head physician of the Medical Department, C hepatitis is the treatment against disease." Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u147	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. Mr. Chief physician, at the beginning of the meeting today's meeting, we've been talking about hepatitis and we've got to publish the concern that this subject brings us back to the end. This no doubt means that C is the subject of hepatitis to-day, not only in communication, not only among the sick, but also among most political groups of this legislature. We will not discuss the details of this disease in the EH, because we are not the proper ones for such consideration, so that you are informed. Now we wish to speak of the state in which certain patients are suffering. You know better than anyone in the past month that we've been conducting different initiatives to clear up all the doubts that surround the Hepatatitis. But we must say that the answers of your department have always been vague and brief. For instance, we didn't get to know the exact number of people who have diagnosed this illness. That's why we don't want to be in general with the verbal question today. Our purpose is to be as exact as possible. We know that some of their patients have been accused of being reported by their doctors that no direct anti-virtal influence against the Hepatitis has ever arrived. And again and again they announce that the attention they receive is insufficient when they appear in the media and when they come to us. So, on May 7th, Daniel Zulai, responsible for the plan of Osacy C hepatitis, said that in a week two new kinds of medicine had been added to this disease. Indeed, in the strategy of treating the hepatatitis of the 11th May, there are new therapys. But reality tells us that these two medicines are not in the hands of the sick. That's why we ask you: Why don't we give up new treatments that are predicting the Department of Health over and over? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners. White anderea, I think I've understood that Osakidetza is not dispensing the new drugs for hepatitis C. It seems to me that the intervention has ended with that. Well, well, it's fake, and you know it perfectly well. Now at the turn of the answer I can list you what new medicines are not being dispensed. Or do you speak without any rigor? His concrete question today is: "Why are these medicines not being dispensed?". For I have already answered, look: all authorized drugs are being dispensed in the health system for the treatment of hepatitis C. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u150	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u151	Thank you. I am referring to those who appear in the strategy of 11 May, which Mr Zulaika has also come out in the media saying that they are dispensing, but, according to the patient platform, the patients are not receiving. So the question had to be changed: not why they are not within the strategy, but why they do not leave the pharmacy. I am not going to evaluate in this case, to say what other autonomous communities do. We and we only value what you say publicly and compare it with what the patients or platforms that group them tell us. And it's our duty to ask you about it, and I understand that yours is to clarify it. Surely you agree with this group by stating that when the platforms that group these patients are locked up in hospitals, they do not do so for the sake of pleasure, nor for the sake of harassing anyone. What happens is that when you go to your specialist the answer you receive is not the same as that you give publicly or even privately. You have said: "There is not a single person in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa who is affected by this disease or by another person who does not have access to the treatment most appropriate to his case among the treatments available." And you know that that is not true, because today you have again admitted that patients are being treated step by step, starting with the most serious. Therefore, there are people who do not have access to the most appropriate treatment, because they have to wait to get worse enough to receive that treatment. Do you know what patients have come to tell us? They prefer to get sick in order to reach a stage 4 so that they can be treated with new antivirals. That's what they've come to tell us. And what has happened again on this occasion, with the other two new medicines that you think are being given, but they say they do not receive. Look, if I'm confused – I'm going to make you a proposal – we'll meet you, us and the affected platform, and if I'm confused I'll stop beating you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u153	Mrs. Blanco, she's bought, negotiated and paid for all the new treatments against the virus that's been released for the last few months. Under no circumstances do I think you give the tab; ask in your right. A few days ago you supported with your presence a press conference of some of the affected associations, assuming your message as your own. It was said that the phased treatment of patients was a crime against humanity, and that all patients should be treated at the same time, a difficult thing. A model was put in place to follow the strategy developed by the Ministry of Health, and a solution was suggested for the sick, with their presence, to emigrate to other communities. Next Thursday the plenary of this House will discuss a non-legislative proposal made by you, urging the Department of Health to define a protocol for the use of new antivirals, a protocol that is in use in the centers of Osakidetza. He also urges his non-law proposal to provide new anti-hepatitis C medicines – and I will read literally – "to patients with compensated or uncompensated cirrhosis, patients on the transplant waiting list, and those who do not respond to the applied therapies." In other words, you will urge, with a non-legislative proposal, to prioritise treatments. I mean, what you're doing. In case it was not enough, in the justification of his initiative he tarnishes the strategy of the ministry of restrictive and obsolete. The same strategy as at the press conference he endorsed said it was magnificent and endorsed by experts and professionals. Truth is, it's hard to understand your position and that of your group. Mrs. White, I'm going to give you data. Data. From June 2014 to May of this year Osakidetza has treated 757 patients with the new medicines, carrying out an expenditure of 20 million euros. This expenditure has mostly gone to two US pharmaceutical multinationals, who would not even have suspected in their best dreams support as vehemently as those they receive from their group. What is difficult to understand is that, on the other hand, at this time you have tabled motions in municipalities urging the Spanish Government to intervene in patents and to develop generic natives. As you see, all this is very serious and very consistent, so we don't need them to relate to patient associations. We relate ourselves, don't worry. Mrs. Blanco, let's do it properly. Membership has always offered the best and the most recent medicines, now and forever. And you know that. And that's what we're doing this time: buy and offer our word and do our work honestly. I assure you, we work for the patients. We fully understand the uncertainty about the disease, but everyone cannot be treated on the same day. But, again, Osakidetza is committed to treating all patients, and so it will be. The data and the facts are there, and they are the clearest proof of what we are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-29.u154	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-eight.
