ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, tell them that the new House Member Earth has delegated the vote. Preceding theme: "The other proposition as a team of the Misto-UPyD legislatures about the lowering of the VAT in culture. As for the other legal proposal, we should decide once for all the draws of the meeting in the 23rd full of April according to the 92.1 article of the Rules." It was a draw in the vote of the entire correction of the teams. Following the 92.1 article of the ruler, we'll go back to the vote of that amendment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 26; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u1	So the full correction has been accepted. First point in theme list: "Pull together the legal proposition made by the legislatures, concerning the rights of consumers and of the language of users, and the duties of the field. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you've been disoriented. And so we will proceed to discussion. On the side... ? That's it? Well, Mr. Isas, the representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to present himself to them and to defend them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u2	The President of the legislature, Mr President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days. When the Basque Country defends the legal proposition introduced by the Collectors, we must remind ourselves that we are here with this initiative to complete a period of our election program. At the very moment of presenting this proposal of law, the noise of this legal proposition reminded us of the crude state we live in. In fact, this case about the Basques has been a long time since. I'll explain. Ahmery Picaud, monjek XII. he wrote in the century, "before the people of the country spoke, they yawned." The French magistrates of Pierre de Lancre Borde. in the reign of the thief came the inquisitor. He wrote: "They speak in strange unknown language, that's the bad sign." The euccaneers have been told of all things throughout ages: barbarians, savages, shut up and ignorant. In this law, for instance, you have named us intolerant, autoritarian, idiot, and Taliban linguistic. All this without reason, only by expressing our ideas and propositions. We have heard the last insult, for instance, from the voice of the powerful master: The mob, the mob, they called us. We don't get used to it, at least I don't get used to it. We don't understand what's going on with us, and we don't even admit it to insult us. Last Saturday we met a thousand eucalypists asking for changes of language in Iruña. On Sunday, our coach at the Eibar football team taught us a lesson of dignity in intelligence and pride. On April 28th, Tuesday, Durango, the platform presented itself to ask for the right to continue in medical service. On the 10th of May, Sunday, we shall meet the Step of Senper, a thousand eucalypists, to enable by force the Euscist, who is denied by the option of the option of Xido. All this, of course, to live in peace, to survive. "Euskal people have their own language." It's written in 1982, article 2. But later, they wrote "Euska is the Basque Country Language." So we are. The law which was conceived in Spanish has two interpretations of the eucacra, different and different significations. We prefer our initial style, for the Basques have their own language. I want to remind you, by the same way, of the word of Flower Aguirre, which the witness of the last run opened in hand: "The prisoner's is not a personal matter, in the corner, in particular, in the house. The Basque isn't about the individual, mine, yours. Euskara's a talker's case. It's a case for all the people. The Basques are public, they're collective. Euskara is a popular matter. For the case of the eucaia is political, euscal is a political matter." We agree. Ladies and gentlemen, whether you like it or not, the cause of the peace is the parliament, the funk, yours and ours. If she's going to live in the Euskade, it'll be the policy initiative. But we have often heard that the eussa ought to be excluded from politics. Much more than one, it has been censured that we embellish the eucalyptic. It's strange that we, you, politicians, should say politics is harmful. You're either nervous or worse, you're sick of having a stand-in every time we bring the cause of the eucalyptus to Parliament. You seem to think that we use politics for our particular interest, that we bring it here to the eucalyptus, and that we do not know what to do for ourselves. You understand it in a malicious manner, as if it were an act of defending the interests of particular parties or groups. "But the worst of all is that you have done so long ago and have accused us to do the same. It's not like that. Look at the definition of politics in dictionaries. We've made it, and we've read three meanings. One: "The activity of governing a nation or a state, of which knowledge belongs." Two: "A set of known procedures used to govern a country or state, a set of measures taken in a certain area, such as economic politics in the government." Three: "A set of activities and procedures for "persons, teams, corporations, etc. " In the light of these definitions politics does not appear to be particularly injurious. The contrary would be said: as far as we know, politics can be very useful in dealing with a machine of society. Can the equality between women and men be obtained beyond politics? How is it possible to obtain a more balanced or inferior degree of difference from politics? Is language normalization possible apart from politics? Why do you want to leave the Basque outside of politics? Why? 34 years ago, on May 11, 1981, he agreed to send the basic bill of law to the law enforcement of the eucalyptic use. The traditional standardization process of language was beginning 13 years before in dictation. As soon as the autonomical building has been founded, we have since passed the trial of the Basque Sea in Araba, Usca, and Gipuzia institutions. The language that is strong has therefore become 34 years old. There's been a lot of discussions and a rule in years. For example, the Board of Education, Language, and Cultural Act at the beginning of the year presented to us at the Cultural Committee, the investigation of the degree of perfection of the Rights of the Consimists and the Law of Users. In the present scene, in short, the members of the department told us that the order had been a poor or very poor fit of execution, and that, in a crude manner, the decree had been useless. The consequences of this investigation have been overwhelming, hopeless. But, you know, I don't think it makes sense to make mistakes. Instead of accepting an apparent failure, it's said to us, word for word, "that there's a long way to complete the rules of law that's in power," the usual euphemism to cover the failure: It's wide enough to improve. "The trouble is somewhere else," he says. "Since the hearing is a long time for ever or almost always keeping it, we must go on stepping in the light of the established regulations. So, in my opinion, what concerns popular authorities in consumption is not to produce so many new rules, but to design and develop the most effective policy of promotements which have already been made by consumers and private companies, so that the consumers can really employ the rights of languages. For the question is not a rule, but the observance of the rules which we have already." The ring of my laughter's rhetoric does not prevent the use of eucalyptus for the last seven years of commerce. Of course, you have to obey the rules, but what does you do to fill up these rules and execute them? It's just fun that, as far as consumers and user-language rights are concerned, the established regulations are neither old nor overdone. Besides, we would add that this regulation is of no use. I think it's more effective to promote a filling-up than to create new laws-that is, to continue as I have always done-to wander. "Mingia calls that our billing of law does not include any remarkable improvements, and afterwards she disapproves of the penalty we propose. He says it's not the most efficient thing to do, it's not a motivation to use the cuss in the consumption field any more. I think it's kind of a big problem if you're not going to fix it. If you don't know or know that it's common to regulate the use of languages in trade activities. The late Artichich, the researcher at the Basque Country University, has given us a very clear account of the recent article: "The Spanish has a collection of laws which regulate the language of commerce. Take notice, for example, of the General Law of Constaming in Spain, and of the Protection of Users, expressely in article 18, concerning the language of Tag: They are like any other breach of rule against the rights of consumers. The breach of rule, and the destruction of money, are divided into three sets, as to youth, remember: "Agrins to 3,000 euros; capitals from 3.000 to 12,000 euros; and extremely severe from 15,000 to 60,000 euros. In the most serious cases, he can kidnap his property and close the company." We're working on the Spanish. "In the French State, for instance, the law of Toubon regulates the use of language, of the French. It forces corporations and organizations, public and private, to use the French. By this law, for example, in 2006, he received a fine of 50,000 dollars a year, because the French software manual, sold by the American Medical Systems, was not French. Besides, they had added 20,000 euros to that plump sum every day that had been taken notice of and had not been adjusted to the French." In case of normalized languages, it is not expressly necessary to regulate the use of language. But this does not mean that it is not regulated, as we have seen. The state of a single language, or more accurately, puts every part of its structure and administration into the service of language. For example, to adapt college reorganizes to the high-level education camp in Europe. This adaptation begins from the stage of youth, and ends in youth. When the adjustment has finished, it can only return to other languages, that it is Catalan, that it is English, or that it is eucarated. Not entirely and not in all cases, of course. Therefore, all measurements of the diminished language, when we speak of the cradle, are relative. Therefore we measure which part of the whole language of the chief, because we always subject it to the main language, even when we measure it. It is natural, they say, that it is natural, how can it be otherwise? From the thread of the first example, we may suggest how we are now European, copying the model of university in France or Great Britain, would be cheaper. To copy the pattern, and return to study, publications, and material from French or English. If we were to propose that, they'd tell us we're crazy. The state arranges its structure with youth in a high and wide range. All services are organized in Catalonia, Andalucia, and Navarre in the time, no matter. First of all, Spanish and later. In public administration there is a necessary and unique language in which one can be a civil servant: Spanish. In order to be civil and access to various services, young people are indispensable in Catalonia, Andalucia or Navarre, no matter. We need to start conducting the Euskar's normalization in certain sectors of the strategic sector anyway. Among them, we must take particular care of the social field, for the importance of the community. We mustn't forget that in these relationships consumption relationships are very important in people's lives, from the point of view of relationship, and even from their necessity. It may be said that the eucalyptus will not be entirely normal until the use of the eucalyptic field is normal. It is also asserted that it is necessary to offer it to the euphorium of quality, and to use it as a covering of quality, besides grammatical and formal justice, especially incommunicative efficiency and the proper code, or near to the speaker. That's why we give importance to this legal proposition that we're presenting. From this plan, our purpose is double. On the one hand, according to the principle of preparation, it is determined by the requirements of companies, institutions, and establishments, in order to restore the rights of the language of consumers and of users. As for the application field, this rule which we propose is occupied by the vast territory of the eucalyptus. because the Rights of Language are human, and cannot be distinguished from the persons, and the Institution of Persons ought not necessarily to cause the loss of the Right. All the Basques have a right to support commercial relations, wherever they may be the number of Basques. However, when we determine the law by means of the land of the eucalyptus, we have a share of the right of speech and of the right of speech. We have clear that every right, but especially the rights of language, cannot be performed without being circumscribed by duty. Public institutions peculiarly, but even private enterprises and establishments are devoted to the observance and observance of the duties to the Basques and the Basques. That's what we're going to do in this case. Our suggestion of law is a simple law. We've been based on this plan, we've been accused, thinking that we don't make any contribution when we open the discussion in this parliament, that we'd have a chance to improve later on. And then we shall see today that they deny us this opportunity, that it is done by saying it is done. If it is done, why not consider what improvements can be made and how we can improve it? Considering that the use of support does not improve in the past years and that we have to do something. We reject the independence. We believe that punishment is not the best way to change people's behavior. But at the same time we think that it is proper for public institutions to regulate the res public, to regulate the affairs of society directly as possible: that it is the field of health, that instruction is a field, that is justice, and that it is also a field of language. We'd like this congressman to take support in the tramital to have this bill of law to discuss it later on. Therefore, by all that has been said, we ask the parliamentary, to give you, to protect us, our legal proposition. We want to place the legislation proposition, however simple it may be, on the way to change the language policy for the normalization of the hold. We are fully convinced that data in our hands ought to change language policy, to change it from the root. And if we don't change language policy here, unless this legislature doesn't give way to the new language policy, we'll change this legislature. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u3	Thank you, Mr. Isas. In reverse turn... ? Oyal? contra-Turno? Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u4	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone, ladies and gentlemen, Lehendakari. We are once again dealing in this Parliament with the issue of language fines, in this case by EH Bildu and in this case to try to reintroduce them. Obviously, we will vote against the consideration of this bill, and we will therefore be consistent with our historical position on this issue. Already on 27 May 2010, and in view of the imminent entry into force of the language obligations and the fines attached to them, we had to submit an urgent non-legislative proposal to ask Mr López's Basque Government to desperate and act to prevent the entry into force and, therefore, the imposition of such linguistic fines. That government of Mr López had not even learned, and thanks to the political impulse and insistence of UPyD we finally managed to amend the decree first, to postpone the entry into force of the linguistic fines, and then to amend the law, to definitively abolish them. The Basque Nationalist Party, by the way, opposed it with nationalist nails and teeth. In view of that non-law proposal by UPyD, the Basque Government issued Decree 204/2010, which merely postponed the entry into force of the obligations provided for in the 2008 decree for one year, and one day before discussing a new non-law proposal by a server for UPyD, and in view of the fact that the Socialist Government continued to look at the Musarañas (i.e., on 15 June 2011), the Socialist Group, on a proposal for a law, initiated the procedures for the abolition of language fines. The final abolition of the fines took place three years after the start of the legislature, thanks to the political action of UPyD. It cost us, but we got it. Those initiatives were intended to defend the Basque country, but above all to defend freedom. Therefore, taking into account what it took to abolish them, we will obviously vote against this initiative by EH Bildu, which intends to recover them. In any case, as I reiterated in the past parliamentary term in the face of the legal amendment promoted by the Socialist Government, it was not enough to abolish the linguistic fines; the linguistic obligations that the law continues to collect were and must also be eliminated. The point was not only to eliminate linguistic fines, but to eliminate both linguistic fines and linguistic obligations in the private sphere, something Mr López's socialist government did not dare to do. Moreover, it is absurd that, if there are rights, there are no obligations, as it is absurd that if there are obligations there are no sanctions. The point is that there are no such rights that some proclaim; therefore, since there are no such rights, there should be no obligations, and therefore no sanctions, as I will explain later. Requiring private companies and traders to use euskera in the development of their economic activity involves interference by the State in the private sphere of individuals and enterprises, contrary to the principle of freedom of individuals and enterprises. And impose linguistic fines, or even impose, a veritable misconception. It is a very bad idea, and it is also counterproductive, to try to impose euskera on a coup d'état of coercive measures, fines, sanctions or impositions, and it is also a violation of rights. Nothing is achieved more than the tiredness of society, and rights are also violated. Therefore, it is not only necessary to prevent sanctions from being imposed by legislation, but also to propose to amend the law, or directly repeal it, in order to abolish linguistic obligations to private companies, for the reasons I have explained. We're against language goods and we're against language needs. That's why we vote against considering this proposal because we defend the freedom of language. Ignorants and fines do not bring good things, and moreover they violate the rights of citizens. In this case, the rights of the citizens are violated, and the liberty of the senate. The Basque Government issues, let us say, five reasons to show its unfavorable view, giving five reasons to explain its unfavorable view. The first of these comes to say that we already have legal rules, and therefore this bill is unnecessary. The second reason is that the proposed law would not bring about any significant improvement over the existing legislation. The third reason is that the proposed law restricts current progressiveness. The fourth reason, that euskera is not sectoral, but cross-cutting. Finally, and most importantly, in the view of the Government, a sanctioning system would not today be the most effective or the most encouraging for the promotion of Basque in the field of consumption, nor for the effective exercise of the linguistic rights of consumers. Considerations by UPyD in relation to these reasons issued by the Government to show its unfavourable approach to the consideration: It claims rights it recognizes cannot be fulfilled, in this case linguistic rights in the private sphere. In the view of UPyD, the problem is that such rights do not exist, and therefore those obligations should also be removed. Everyone has the right to speak in the language he or she considers, but in the private sphere he or she cannot be held accountable in the same language. As simple as this, Mr. Isasi. There are no such rights, and there can therefore be no obligations, let alone sanctions. Its position on the imposition of sanctions is, of course, different from that of the Basque Nationalist Party throughout the past legislature. Finally, what I had to listen to, for demanding the abolition of linguistic fines, by the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist group! Finally, it seems that the Government now recognizes that the imposition of sanctions is a very bad idea. Now, perhaps for electoral reasons, he recognizes that it is neither the most effective nor the most encouraging. Unfortunately, it forgets the main thing: that the imposition of linguistic fines would violate rights. It is not only ineffective, therefore, but would violate rights. Finally, this is, in our view, what the Basque Government should have pointed out. As I have pointed out on some other occasion, in our opinion the Basque has had or has basically two great enemies: those who tried to ban it, and those who are now trying to impose it. These have been the two historical enemies of the Euskera, and we oppose both: those who at a certain point in history tried to ban it, and those who are now trying to impose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u5	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Oyagla, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u6	Thank you very much, Madam President. Also to announce the People's Group's vote against the consideration of this bill. Mr. Isasi began his speech by recalling the times of the Inquisition, and today it is true that he wants to take that role. He wants the people of Bildu today to become the new inquisitors, the inquisitors of the 21st century. That is why he remembered those times of the Inquisition, bringing here a project that actually tells us about imposition. Some tear their clothes when they propose linguistic policies from freedom, from the freedom of citizens, from the free accession of citizens, and criticize the imposition, the sanction. And today we have an example that there is indeed a commitment here that Basque policies are based on taxation, sanctions and fines. A project of taxation that aims to oblige citizens, generate obligations in the private sphere, not only public; generate obligations not only to public administrations in their relationship with citizens, but also aims to generate obligations in the private sphere, in the private sphere of people, through sanctions and fines. And also, most seriously, sanctions, fines and social notice. Because your bill also contains the proposal to point out socially to those who do not comply with your approaches to taxation: those who do not comply with the policies that you propose will be pointed socially through a kind of triangle of the Jews, which will have to be placed at the door of companies, shops, shops or offices. That is what they put forward in their proposal. They intend to convert a controversial decree into law; a decree that was withdrawn, modified by this House, which was suspended in its sanctioning application, extending the restrictions, limiting the rights of Spanish speakers in our community, limiting the rights of those people who in the Basque Country still do not know Basque. Not that they don't use it, or that they don't use it in their home, or in the realm of their daily relationships, but those who don't know it. And I want to remind you that today, according to official data, if we add those who declare themselves to be euskaldunes, euskaldun zaharras, euskaldun berris, those who say they know or are euskaldunes or almost euskaldunes, those who say they know the language in some way, if we add all those, we have many others left, those who do not know today the euskaldunes. And sometimes we think of Álava, where there are still 230,000 Albanians who say they don't know the Basque, but in Bizkaia there are 840,000 Vizcaínos who don't know the Basque, and in Gipuzkoa there are 300,000 Gipuzkoans who don't know the Basque. They're more of those who say they know him in Gipuzkoa, but there are 300,000 who say they don't know him. In Bizkaia, 840,000, in Alava 230,000. You are the majority of this people, and you want to limit your rights with this bill. They also extend the scope of the sanctionable assumptions and extend their scope and language obligations to all types of enterprises. We don't talk here anymore... , I remember when we were talking about the big companies and the distributors and the big electricity and transport companies. No, no. Here you raise obligations and sanctions for large enterprises, for small enterprises, for medium-sized enterprises, for enterprises with fewer than 50 workers, those with fewer than 10 workers and those with fewer than five workers. You also impose obligations and sanctions for micro-enterprises, for self-employed people, those who in a short time, either put on batteries, or will be punished. That is what you are proposing. They don't make any distinctions. They don't make any distinctions. You're all going for it. A for all professionals, for all companies, for all self-employed, in this extensive approach to taxation. They also restrict the progressiveness, and make plain table of the historical territories. Here you bring without care the pre-existing sociolinguistic reality, it gives you the same thing to be talking about the Goierri that of Vitoria, of the Rioja Alavesa that of Bermeo. Bring them in uncaringly. You make a clean slate, and you want to raise the same types of obligations, the same legal obligations, the same sanctioning approach and fines anywhere, in any corner of the Basque Country. They also attack bilingualism frontally, because they suggest that it will be possible to label... They not only impose an obligation to label in the two official languages and to label in Basque and Spanish, no. You say you can label it in Basque and Spanish, or only in Basque. You leave the door open so that, in those administrations, in those places where you govern (we have already seen it), you claim to be an imposition of monolingualism, which of course attacks frontally what has always been defended by the majority of this society. I'm not going into disqualifications or anything. I'm just going to tell you that you're in this case, with your proposal, I think it's out of place, out of time, that we certainly don't share it. That we come here and that we reaffirm again, so that you do not distort our position and the words of those who simply criticize linguistic policies, we come to defend the Basque. That from the People's Group we want to defend Basque through fairer language policies, and that we believe that they can also be more effective. That we believe in the euskera for coexistence and without impositions, and that we defend the euskera, yes, but, as I said, with justice, without discrimination. That no one can see in the Basque country an instrument for the discrimination of any citizen in our country. Euskera yes, but according to the reality, without manipulations, according to the real data of the plurality of our society, according to the diversity of our country, to the different sociolinguistic realities of the historical territories, which is not the same as Alava as Bizkaia or Gipuzkoa in sociolinguistic matters. Euskera yes, but with transparency, of course, without clientelism, without forcing anyone, so that no one can use the Euskera as an instrument to throw it at the head of the neighbor. Euskera to co-exist. We defend the Basque, yes, to cohesive, but not to divide. Euskera to facilitate opportunities, not to limit opportunities. Euskera facilitator, in the Euskera obstacle. That is what we advocate: Euskera yes, no imposition, no sanctions, no fines; Euskera since free accession, Euskera from freedom. That's what we're trying to do, and we think that's how we move forward, that's the best way to move forward...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u7	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr Isasi, we cannot support the processing of this project either, because we oppose, as we have always done, the imposition of fines in relation to the use of Basque, because we believe that sanctions harm the Basque and violate rights. Edo beaste modu batan, sozialistak ez cataz bat proposimen honekin, azken finian isunak euskararen kontra doazelako. Because the socialists understand that Basque is the heritage of all Basque society, a meeting point between different Basques apart from ideologies, origins and partisans. And that is why it is important that all legislation for its development and promotion be done with broad consensus, seeking pedagogy rather than imposition. That is why we have based all the linguistic policy during the last twenty-three years of extension and strengthening of the Basque language: on the promotion of Basque, on respect for the free choice of language, and on the agreement, without which nothing would have been possible. Look, Mr. Isasi, I do not question the individual facts that you have told before, but I do firmly question the agonistic panorama to which you have referred, which you have drawn for us, because it is not real. Eta horregatik sozialistok sustenten dugu historikoki defendatu duguna, alegia, hitzarmenen, adostatsunen eta atxikimendu askearen bitartez euskara sustatzearen konpromisoa. For this reason, the Euskera Advisory Council establishes as a necessary condition for the development of the Euskera the accession by the citizens, because above all the Euskera needs to win speakers and accessions. There's no one without one. And yet, today Bildu proposes sanctions that lead us in the opposite direction, in that of disaffection towards the Basque country. Because fines have nothing to do with sociolinguistic reality. The use argument is in the opposite direction, because today only 13% of Basques (13%) say that the language they use in the family is Basque. You need pedagogy, no fines, I repeat. That is why we strongly opposed sanctions against private companies in 2003 during the debate on the law that is in force today. We also did so in 2008, when the two-legislature government passed a decree regulating these sanctions. And so in 2012 we brought to this Parliament a proposal for a law, which, when passed, eliminated the linguistic fines that Bildu intends to bring back. And today, three years later, we continue to defend the same thing. We strongly support the implementation of measures that favour the advancement of the Basque language, always progressively, according to the socio-linguistic reality and avoiding harm to people. The same is said in document Euskera 21 which was agreed by the Euskera Advisory Council, which is committed to progressivity, flexibility and free accession, and which advocates avoiding imposition, avoiding forcing situations. And neither are the unions for the work of imposition, because ELA, Commissions, LAB and UGT signed two legislatures ago and a collaboration agreement with the Basque Government for the normalization of the use of euskera in the world of the company, and all the measures of that agreement are based on voluntarity, none on imposition or compulsoryity. But, above all, it is unquestionable that the new generations incorporate euskera into the education system, to the extent that the children who have enrolled in this course in children and primary schools in models B and D account for 95% of the total enrolment. And that is the future: naturally, our children will take the euskera to work. Why, then, that effort to introduce division and provoke the euskera's rejection with linguistic fines? Do we want Basque to be only a language of the institutions, or a language dear to the citizens? The Socialists have a clear answer: we want people to come closer to the Euskera; that is why we have always defended free membership, just as we have defended with the same firmness that public administrations must attend to every person in the language they choose. That's his obligation. I mean, do we only want to be the language of organizations, or the language which all the members of the community love? Basque Socialists really want people to come to the Basque Sea. Therefore we have always maintained a free attachment, and have likewise maintained that the administrative assemblies of the people ought to give attention to each person in the language he chooses. But the initiative presented by Bildu today takes people away from Basque, for fines and because it attacks bilingualism – it has already been said – by imposing that any written communication be at least in Basque, forgetting the Castilian, our other official language. With regard to the technical reasons for rejecting this initiative, we generally agree with the reasons expressed by the Government's approach. In fact, they are part of what we use to justify the elimination of fines in the past legislature and which the Government now adopts. Welcome to this path. Still, we have a discrepancy in that Government criterion, and that's reason number six. We disagree because it defends the modification of basic aspects of the euskera regulation through sectoral laws, and one thing is to pass laws that extend or supplement the Euskera Act of 82 and another, through those laws, actually amend the Euskera Act. The Socialists consider it essential that, if any aspect of the Law of 82 is amended, it be done by amending that Law directly and reaching the same consensus as it had. You shouldn't play with that. We do not have so many basic consensuses in Euskadi as to break that of the Basque for partisan interest. And, Mr. Isasi, you have expressed a victimism that suggests a desire for the Basques to lock themselves in, offended and hurtful. So I understand the beginning of your intervention. Just remember what Mitxelena, an important nationalist, a very important linguist, said and who was very concerned about Basque. He said, "We must not fall into the hell of the ghetto for fleeing the purgatory of the diglosy." Don't take him there to the Euskera. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u9	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Eubertarians represent the team, Your Honor, Your word is Yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, Congressmen, chief officers. As you already think, our team agrees with the information the government has given us on this issue. We agree, but not only because it's our government and it's easy to agree with what he says. We agree that we also do the reasons which the Government has given us, because these reasons are perfectly reasonable, absolutely and indisputable. Therefore, not all of them, but I shall mention some of these reasons, even though I have read them: On the one hand, being to promote the use of the euphorium in a social life, one of the ends of the Euskian law of 1982 is granted, and the rule of law which has this end in force, which guarantees the rights of the consumers' language, and in truth the state of the consumers, and the following decree. They both adapt to social conditions and to our wants. Therefore we think it is not necessary that the law-proposital proposition should be introduced, because we already have the most effective instruments. "And now the Eukák's account has been recently explained by the vice-master of the political department, and by his request, the result of the promotion of that decree to-day. He did not turn aside, he examined, and reported the result, and said that what we all see, that is to say, the long way to make the law which we now have made, to come to the execution of the law." The want, therefore, is not a regulation, it is not a want of regulations, but that we have taken more steps to follow our rule. That we must encourage him to fulfil our rule, we must help him to do so. That we must keep doing policy for the rules that are strong. Mr. Bastarrik had established a fleet of spears in the show, which was the work-makers to follow those policies. Besides, what brings the texts of the proposed proposition to what is now present? At least we believe that no remarkable improvements can be made. He makes a decree a law by making some alterations in it, and these changes do not justify the conversion of a decree into a law. In the text proposed by collected, almost every article is equal to the established decree, from 20 to 17 precisely, and two additional regulations are identical. The major changes are related to sanctions. There is also a change in the rules application. The legal proposition seems to extend to all kinds of companies, organizations, and establishments of all kinds, but it is not clear that the range of the application field is the range. For example, you say penalties to a butcher, or to an example, but you don't specify how. Nevertheless, progressiveness received in the established decree decreases in the legal proposition. And that's just progressiveity, we think it's the essential condition to guarantee effective language policy. To conclude, and from all that has been said, we do not think that the established regulation must be left to the same side, and another to be organized. We think we should push what we have. So, we're not gonna protect the legal proposal he's presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Passing by the line of answers, the Representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Isas, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u12	Thank you, President of the legislature. What's legislative for? Rights for rent, Mr. Maniro, that doesn't exist? It is not much worth while to speak, the national law of art and the report of the Assco. 1982. The Basque Use of the year has not been changed, but it has not been renewed. [[He showed a book.]] This trial of 2014, which has been discussed in this matter. [[He showed a book.]] I find it extremely difficult for me to discuss the retreat of the majority of the legislature, and the establishment of law may be improved in the process, but, excepting the EH Collect, you have determined to break the course by all the other forces. The contents could be discussed, we've tried many times. You're accusing us for Maximes, and in this case we've tried to make a adaptation, and that's why we've used those precedents so far as to update them, but it doesn't seem to work. I've committed a first-term intervention. Here, in speaking of the normalization of rest, there is an exception. The pedagogical exercise, I think, must first be made here, in order to understand the language of eucament, in this case, that it is a sphere of politics, and that it must be regulated. It is not right that the planning which is made may be restored to the euphora without regulating it. I don't know how to explain it. There is said in the world of the 6,000 languages which now speak, 21. that more than half the century will disappear. The first thought we have to make about the Basque is that he is not individual. Language is not of the individual, it belongs to no one and everyone, and if there is something political in it, it must be regulated by what is common. I have at first attempted to regulate myself implicitly and explicitly in so many laws as in the case of youth. We wouldn't want to spend the rest of the day in Spanish, French or local language, language of state or laws and how they are referred to. But if we wish to recover language, to resist it, we have public answers and political answers. I can't get my mind off her, she can't take it off. This law was made in the first place. [[He showed a book.]] I mean, after I get autonomy. And we could talk about agreement. We are here trying, and have tried from the very beginning of this legislation in the way of agreement, and this opportunity has been often denied us. We'll try and get it again. And we'll try because we think it's better to rule than to leave it to the individual. Leaving it in the hands of the individual, we know that it is dangerous, but we do not accept this argument, "that is what the Basques want," is not true. We Basques want our public institutions to take upon themselves the health of the eucaia, which is what we want, the Basques. And what we Basque want isn't that we can cook in a shop and answer shopkeepers in a way that doesn't. What we want and what we want is to be respected as a client in that shop and to give us that service we owe, not to refuse it because we insist. That's the point. We don't say languages, computers or bicycles are rights. What we say is that we who use languages, those we use computers, or we use bicycles, are the rights of the subject. But all these matters are regulated, and are regulated in public places. What we ask for is that there should be institutions in eucatuation, in order not to be needed, this sterile quarrel we have now, quite sterile. The next year's decree will be changed, and the subsequent changes will be changed, if not in the succession of this law. Because it's a duty. Because Euskar's normalization is not about political occasion. We are all eucacious, we are all eloquents, and probably all of us will be eloquents on the 21st. in the fifteenth century, all of them. And we'll have a chance to do it in one language and the other. What is here unacceptable is the struggle of language in order to prolong ad aernum by public institutions. We have to plan the complete euscalization from the language system. And that's not composition. To learn how to read and write people, to know mathematics, to know information, and to know languages is the duty of public institutions, is to regulate them, and to secure necessary instruction. And in order to obtain this, all men have all these knowledge, and are at the same time at rest. We want it for everyone, literally for everyone. Get it? Forgive me, ladies and gentlemen, language is the kind of thing you can't impose on. We want to open it and we want most people... And here Mr. Vicente Reyes has mentioned the data of instruction: 95% of the eucature model. Of course! People are far more sensible here than we who are gathered in this Chamber. And what does he choose? In public or private discipline, because it is duty to keep it in private, it is the rare chance of success. It must be regulated, the normalization of the resistance is a regular process. And this Chamber, this Parliament, and I love to regulate, to enforce, to enforce. And if, as I have said at first, this law rejects dispute, if it refuse to change the policy of language, this legislative must be changed. I know the positions are defined, and I don't understand particularly about the funk and the Jest Party. And every one here should say how the process of normalization is predicting outside the rules. And for that purpose let us remove all traffic rules, the laws of education, and destroy everything, and do all things according to the will of the people. This argument is of the root, and false. Point it out, Mr. Oyalun? These 705s must be pointed out in a list, you must point to those who cheat, yes, we need to know the behavior here. We don't point at it. What we say is very simple and will repeat continuously: a process without regularity will not produce a normalization of eucalyptus. We're the normalization of the Basque... for all men have a right to it, and this Chamber and the Grievers are to make rules, to make laws, to keep them, and to fulfil them, so that we may all be able to know and make use of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u13	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u14	Yes, thank you, President. Look, Mr. Isasi, I would ask you one thing: do not speak on behalf of all the Basques. This is for starters. Because it gives me the feeling (it's something I have very clear) that the Basques are so much more reasonable than you are. Or we're much more reasonable than you. Basque society is far more reasonable than you as far as language policy is concerned. I believe that what is evident from your intervention today, from your usual interventions, is that you say you don't know Euskadi, you don't know the sociolinguistic reality of Euskadi. He doesn't believe in Basque society, he doesn't believe in people's freedom, but he doesn't believe in society either, he doesn't have confidence in society. And this is a proposition that clearly attacks the Basque and attacks society, because you do not like how Basque society behaves naturally, and therefore through impositions and sanctions you want to correct your usual behavior. And this is what is deduced from his initiative and from all the initiatives he presents: that he does not believe in Basque society. You're obsessed, you're obsessed. It is very bad for health, Mr Isasi, that obsession with correcting the linguistic behavior of Basque society. Relax, which is something I usually tell you. You're gonna feel bad. Trust more in Basque society. Man, and also acknowledge the progress that has been made in recent decades with regard to the use of Basque in our community and the progress that Basque has made in our community, and the more than 2.5 billion euros that we have allocated all Basques for the drive and promotion of Basque. Man, admit it! Enjoy yourself from time to time! But he doesn't believe in Basque society, and that's the saddest thing. Moreover, with this initiative, it is no longer intended to limit citizens' access to public employment, but also now to limit citizens' access to private employment. And that's a very bad idea, Mr. Isasi. Therefore, in the end, we defend freedom, we defend free adherence to the Basque language, we defend voluntary bilingualism, and we oppose the impositions, the sanctions, the fines and their obsessions. Just that. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u15	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The representative of the Popula Party, Mr. Oyhal, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u16	Thank you very much, Madam President. And very briefly, because it is already a matter of repeating the arguments. But I think we need to insist, Mr. Isasi. We, of course, reject any rule imposing obligations, sanctions or fines on individuals, businesses, for linguistic reasons in the private sphere. We believe that this is not the way, that the Basque can certainly not move forward with taxation policies. We reject and want to point out again here that we reject any kind of discrimination on linguistic grounds in the relationship of citizenship with any administration, association or public enterprise which also relates to public administrations. He spoke before defending the Basque for coexistence, without impositions, he spoke of justice without discrimination, of attending to reality, that reality he spoke of. You want to limit the right of Basques living in Spanish, who only know Spanish today, and you still don't recognize that this society is making a huge, huge effort to advance in the knowledge and use of Basque, but there are still a million and a half Basques in our community who don't know Basque, and you want to limit your rights with this law. You would limit your rights with this law, yes, because you directly attack the relations of these citizens with the Administration, but you also interfere directly in their private relations, in the private relations of the citizenry. We reject that, and we believe that it is good to denounce the imposition policies now that we are faced with elections. We do this because where Bildu governs, or where the Basque Nationalist Party is conditioned by Bildu in governments, policies of imposition, punishment and fines are immediately put in place. We lived it in the past, with that decree imposing sanctions. It was a decree not of Bildu, it was a decree of the PNV. That is why we warn today, because there are elections within a month, that those sites governed by Bildu or those governments driven by Bildu or conditioned by Bildu will have the temptation to return to the policies of imposition, sanction and fine. We already have contrasted cases in Gipuzkoa municipalities. You do not respect bilingualism, you are not willing to respect this society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u17	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Basque Socialist won't speak. Eubertarians, your word is Yours, My Lady of the Mountains.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u18	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Maneiro, I did not know that the nails and teeth were different according to ideology, but, well, if so, we do have nationalist nails and teeth, Basque nationalists. But others (you, for example), in addition to Spanish nationalist nails and teeth, have exclusionary and anti-democratic ones. Mr Reyes, Mr Maneiro and Mr Oyarzabal, stop saying falsehoods. In the previous decree of 2008 the sanctions were not developed, only the legal reference was collected, what happens is that you were interested in projecting that idea. The previous Government did, in four years, relax, and also project to society an idea that nothing needed to be done. That is why it has been so low in the degree of compliance with the decree. In any case, Basque society has shown its desire, and our group and the Government will continue to work in collaboration with the citizens and actors involved. Any group of the Chambers may present the initiative which he wishes to present, or which he deems appropriate. I don't deny it, but there's a difference from the initiative, Mr. Isasi. You spoke on your second shift as if this wasn't prescribed, and that's not true. When the decree of 2008 made the government of that time, as our grandmother used to say, "glory with all patrii": unions, agents, great settlements and so on. And then it has gone its way and is doing it, and the world has not begun with the rights of language. The agreement. We're ready, too. I don't know if you're missing the agreement you're accusing us of. We're going to the agreement, too. We won't deny that because you're on the side of the Basque Normalization. But I'd like to tell you that when you're being honest, don't take a decree, make a copy, make a little change, and then tell the four winds that you're on the side of the consumers' rights, and that you're on the side of the election. We're not born yesterday with lice and happiness, and we'll probably be wrong, but we can feel the election. And that is also permitted, but do not then say, that by the press we have decided to cut the way, or that we are not in favour of the rights of language, which will not be true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. If the discussion is over, we'll vote whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 54; white; 0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u20	So the bill was ignored. Second point on the subject list: "Mortion, Daniel Maezz Perez EHGGs, introduced around the high-speed train. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Mazezu, it's your word to introduce and take over the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. We've heard many times that it's for people to come out of their mouths, and that ought to be the purpose of any government, yes, but it's a pity we realized that reality contradicts reality. We can put several examples in our slogans to deny it, but we have the most remarkable train of high speed. In fact, it has recently been published in the States by Faith (Findacion Studios de Economia Amplicada) an inquiry concerning a high-speed train. And they're just like we suspected data. And I say they're like what we felt, even here in Eukadin, 2004. because Mr. Bermejo, who is a man of economics in the year, had made a similar study, and because the consequences were nearly the same. In short, all the courses of the long-speed train in the Spanish State are deficitaries, which is what Faith says. There is no place to cover the general cost, not only the investment costs, but the cost of exploitation. And faith, this foundation, is not an organization of the coslogists, but a foundation of Banco de Esaña and 12 giant Spanish corporations. I mention this detail, when I made an interaction with Mrs. Orge that she told me it was our propaganda. No, that's not our propaganda. That report might be a lot of things, but obviously it's not EH Collect's propaganda, it's a statewide foundation report. Two Economics, a report from two economics teacher. Before we start examining the data that appears in this report, I shall mention the only official data we know about a high-speed train. We know the high speed train is the biggest public money infrastructure, we know, and that's where the budgets are. Because it's a 68% of the funding budget and in the transport section 97% of the entire funding. I asked Mrs. Oregi the other day to know what the cost will be when this work is finished. Considering the entire substructure as a whole, the superstructures are about 25% of the day, with their overcoses on it, the train and the tickets and the stations of the capitals, the total of how many? You handle a figure of 6 billion euros. It'll be a lot more for us. But again, when the works are so advanced, it would be well to know how much it will cost as a whole, to know how much the economic sacrifice which the citizens must make. And we, unfortunately, know another particular data, because we have been able to see the consequences produced in the environment. Thousands of trucks up and down, CO. 2 the spills and noises, tens of dried years, tens of dried brooks, dried or infected by dozens, moved to millions of tons of earth, and an endless list. So, a very big economic cost, a social and anbimental cost, too. We know that. Knowing these costs, Federa's report gives us a few clues to predict the lack of income of the project. In short, he says that a high-speed train needs eight million passengers of the year to be profitable. Whoever binds Barcelona to Madrid in Spain, however profitable it may be, will yet produce 0.66 euros, although 6 million users are today. Each of them invested in the course which connects Seville with Madrid produces 0.11 euros. So we're going to get the taxed mines back to us. Considering that the province of Madrid has 6,5 million inhabitants of Barcelona, with 5,5 million inhabitants, and Sevillas 2 million, and that in the whole of Arba, Biscay, and Gipu, only two,2 powerful users, I don't know where we can get that number of 8 million users from. Perhaps some of these facts will be given in the discussion of today, the data we have not heard or seen until now. Besides, according to the idiosyncrasy data, the movement of the capitals, the movement of the cities within the land of the Baba, the Biscay and all the offsets that are given between the countries, is only 1, that the number of offsets given between the capitals is 1%, we think it's a very large expense to serve %1. And someone will say: "No, but it isn't just to bind the capitals, it's inside a strategic corridor, inside the Madrid-Dax corridor." Well, according to the economic report by Red MU, the train will only take 6% of the offsets of the corridor that connects Biscaia, Audi, and Gipu with Madrid. And that's your prediction, and unfortunately we're seeing that the predictions you're making are never fulfilled. But the initial prediction is that the investment of $6,000 euros has been overrated to 6% of the offsets. A very small sum to make an investment of this kind. But I'll say more. Someone'll have to show us how the travelers are going to get hold of today, because time for contact is very important, and according to the data we've heard in the past few months, the high-speed train will not be competitive either with the car or with the bus. So somebody has to prove how a high-speed train will capture cars and buses that are now moving between the capitals. Therefore, seeing all these facts, it is very well understood what the report of Faith says: That in the course which connects Madrid and the North of State, none of them will be restored, on the line of high-speed train, in that line which connects to our member Madrid, none of them will be restored, any of them will be a negative exploitation. It's not profitable at other times, but in this request the exploitation will be negative. Following the supposed economic benefits, and following the report of Faith, it will have no special influence over industry, which also has its justification, because it will not carry the merchandise. And I want you to tell me, if it is possible, what sort of goods some one will carry in the discussion of today, and especially where and what prices, because we do not yet know. We have an example in the whole state, a high-speed line between Barcelona and the French frontier. There's a chance of carrying the goods too. They don't wear it, it's not competitive with the road, because of the price. How are we going to make competition here? What kind of goods are they going to take? Where and what prices? The high-speed train has another effect, and this is important, because by these investments the division of the revenue is effected. Companies and people of high income use most, that's what's happening in state and France. In like manner, the businessmen and persons of high income, who are not ordinary persons, workers, students, who use other kinds of transport: approaching trains or buses. Unfortunately, what we're saying in state experience is that the restrictions are applied there. However, to find out what the potential users of Y will be, it is essential to know which is the price of using a high-speed train. This answer is indispensable to us and David Oyos, professor of the Basque Country University, set up a 25 euros price. Today, it must be remembered that the bus to bind the suburbs has the price of 11 euros. That's what we asked the lady in her interpelationship the other day, and she didn't give us that price. He replied with a Boutade: the price will be the price of a high-speed train to render attractive to all the people. Well, a new way of delivering economic data. According to this, you can put in the next budgets that there will be a lot of expenses, that the incomes will be enough, or that the debt is necessary. Is that your way of data? Is that your credibility to put the data on the table? The price is required, because you're asking others for the right management from here, so we need to know what the price of a high-speed train is. Because it's an irresponsible thing for us to know it's going to be deficit in the exploitation, not knowing what the price is, and yet demanding direct management. "Sta rumda la pago yo," that's what you're talking about. Unfortunately, we'll pay for all this economic costs. In order to give a data, when the management is required, do you know which is the maintenance of a high-speed line? 100,000 kilometers per year. But that's on the skin. In the tunnel, or on the bridges, the maintenance cost is doubled in 200,000 miles a year. The Y's route is built on 70% tunnels or on the bridge. So let's get it straight. And as I said before, that context seems new. A new report has appeared at state level, data published in various media, but, as I said before, here's 2004. We knew a report from a professor at the University of Euskal and he said exactly the same thing. And what did you do? Same thing you do today and today. Some of us are asking for the data, and we're asking ourselves to think about it. We need to know what the cost is, what benefits will be, and you say no. You say more concrete, you go on with the work and there's no need to think about it. So that's what we're asking right now. What France has done. The French State, below Dax, has demanded an examination of the cost/onura of the line which will connect to our North. And that exam says it's not going to be socially profitable and they've stopped the works. That's what we're asking for here. a cost/onura test. What you don't have is a purely economic examination, a direct economic conclusion that supposes 6 billion dollars to invest, that's what you've got. No, what we're asking is a cost/onura investigation. Not the report that investigates the direct economic influence of an investment, which is the only report you've sent us, and which you mention in your correction, "Conseque de Tribunal de la nuvedad de la nueva vasca," because it only investigates the effects of construction, and not the consequences which will be produced in society for a long period. So we thought that once more we had an excellent opportunity to reflect on this subject, knowing that, according to all the data they're taking, the high-speed train won't be profitable. There's a chance of finding out what social consequences will be, and we're ready to decide according to this examination, we think we're on our own right at the moment of making decisions. Otherwise, we'll only be able to ask for responsibility soon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u22	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Wides is the representative of the Basque Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u23	Mila esker, President Andrea, Mr Lehendakari, Counsellor. During the almost three years that we have been in this tenth parliamentary term, we in this Parliament have spoken on several occasions about the high-speed train thanks to various initiatives that we have put forward by the parliamentary groups, one for their paralysis, as is the case today, and another for their construction. For example, my first intervention in this rostrum, in 2013, was motivated by a non-legislative proposal by Mr Oskar Matute of EH Bildu, who urged the Government not to earmark a single euro from the 2013 budget for financing the high-speed train and to earmark the total amount foreseen for that project to ensure public services. By the way, something impossible to achieve, Mr Matute, as you well know, because the money destined for the construction of the Basque Y is made through a management commission of the Ministry of Development, which it does is to draw it from the contribution of the Basque quota. Therefore, it is a finalist money, that if it is not destined for the realization of this work it must be returned to the State. We don't keep it in the Basque Government's coffers. But, returning to the debate on that initiative, the rest of the parties that we have representation in this Parliament are already in favour of this infrastructure. You were the only ones who voted in favour of a non-legislative proposal aimed at paralysing the high-speed train, while the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party, the People's Party and UPyD signed a compromise amendment in favour of the high-speed train. By the way, a compromise amendment that we have literally brought as an amendment to the whole by the Socialist Party. But, as EH Bildu did not get the result he desired in that debate, because you are so intolerant that you do not respect that there may be majorities other than those you represent, that Basque citizens do not have to think the same as the abertzale left, that to think differently is a right in democracy, for you continue to be burdened with this issue, and re-submit a motion resulting from interpellation on macro-infrastructures. On that occasion, Mr Oskar Matute once again urged the Government to stop the budgetary allocations provided for by the management commission for the construction of the high-speed train's Gipuzcoan branch, but also urged the Government of Spain not to continue in any way with the works started directly by him in Bizkaia and Álava. In that debate, EH Bildu again voted alone for his initiative, while the rest of the formations rejoined our forces to adopt a compromise amendment by which Parliament again showed its support for the construction of the high-speed train in Euskadi, known as the Basque Y, as a strategic infrastructure for the economic development and modernization of our Autonomous Community. Well, today again you continue without respect and without assuming the majority position of this House with regard to the Basque Y, and again you present a motion resulting from an inquiry for your paralysis. This time it is no longer you, Mr. Matute, now you have passed it to Mr. Maeztu. You again ask for the temporary cessation of works, and you instruct an expert research group on the use of the cost-benefit analysis methodology, recommended by the European Commission, to carry out a detailed cost-benefit analysis that takes into account the current socio-economic situation. That is why I wonder: to which company should this analysis be awarded? Because, if it were done, the result of it, whatever it was, would give you the same, and you would continue to present initiatives for the paralysis of the high-speed train. They don't care what result it could bring, and they'd continue to tarnish Euskadi's progress. You have brought to this House different teachers who have done studies on high speed whose results coincide with the position of the left abertzale, but have not brought authors of other studies that reflect the economic, social and environmental benefits that the construction of Basque Y can bring to Euskadi. In the compromise amendment that we have reached between the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party and the People's Party, we have asked the Basque Government to bring to this House all the reports and studies available to the European Commission, the Ministry of Development and Adif concerning these cost-benefit analyses, which you both claim and say do not exist, in favour of the Basque Y. You have a clear question about this, Mr Maeztu, and from the Socialist Party we respect it, but we also ask you to respect that the majority of this House is in favour of the high-speed train, is in favour of a strategic project for Euskadi, a project that places us on the map of the modernity of rail transport, which interconnects our capitals, connects us with the rest of Spain and Europe, and is an indispensable infrastructure for our articulation as a society of the twenty-first century. By the way, since you are asking us in your motion to comply with the recommendation made by the European Commission to draw up a cost-benefit analysis, I would also ask you to respect an infrastructure, such as the Basque Y, which the European Commission itself has incorporated into the priority European transport networks, in particular on the European Atlantic Corridor axis, because that very European Commission which you also name as being committed to this infrastructure by providing European economic funds. The chairman of the European Parliament's Committee on Transport and Tourism, Michael Cramer, who is, by the way, part of the Los Verdes group (all to be said), said in his visit to the works: "The Basque Y is not a regional project; this infrastructure assures us the railway connection from Helsinki to Lisbon, passing through Paris and Madrid. Our mission from the European Parliament is to fight for these key cross-border projects for the European Union to be respected." That is why, ladies and gentlemen of EH Bildu, you respect once and for all Basque Y, and you respect once and for all that there is a social majority in Euskadi who is in favour of the Basque railway network. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u24	Thank you, Mr. Wides. The representative of the Basque Popular, Mrs. Ruiz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u25	Egun on. Good morning. Thank you, President. Mr Maeztu, you are asking us in this motion to urge the Basque Government to paralyse at least six months the work of the high-speed train, and in the meantime to commission a cost-benefit analysis to a research group, and when the report is made to make a full monograph in order to reach the broadest possible agreement. It seems that the agreement that already exists, and that has been expressed in countless occasions, does not seem sufficient, or does not take it into consideration. I'm going to read you some expressions, to see how they sound to you: "Rigurous cost-benefit analysis" versus "ad hoc reports on supposed direct economic impact of a public investment of huge amounts of public money, those reports made to the taste of the payer." Those words are yours, Mr. Maeztu, carried out in the interpellation that gave rise to this motion. In such a spirit, it is difficult for you to approach any report or study of any expert with the right attitude. You will recognize that your words sound, as little, prejudiced, which is the same as saying that you have an opinion and an unfavorable and tenacious previous choice to the high-speed train, to which knowledge comes only as this knowledge feeds your choice and your opinion. At the request of the committee, and at your initiative, two experts appeared last month specifically to give their opinion on the economic and social profitability of the high-speed train. Wow, what you're asking for now, we just got it. I don't know if I'd need much more. Professors Germà Bel of the Autonomous University of Barcelona and David Hoyos of the University of the Basque Country were, as has already been recalled. It is true that as a general conclusion they cast doubts arising from their research into the economic and social profitability of the high-speed train, but, Mr Maeztu, they were not as categorical or as manic as you would have liked. And also as sources of authority we would have to confine them only and exclusively to the areas of knowledge of their disciplines, when there are many more aspects that should be taken into account. Moreover, by rereading the transcript of appearances, they even pointed to aspects that were positive and that you logically always omit. And I encourage you to read it again, because there are also positive aspects marked by them but not developed. But, well, if we had to simplify and summarize the conclusion that you drew from those studies, it was that these experts were against the high-speed train. I suppose for the same reason that same afternoon both participants were invited and participated in the talk "Is the Basque Y the railway model that Euskal Herria needs?", organized by the opposition coordinator for the high-speed train Gelditu Elkarlana, in La Bolsa in Bilbao. Come on, you heard them twice on March 4th (continuous session, as in the cinema of children). But you certainly wouldn't find it so interesting to attend, for example, the days that were also held in Bilbao shortly before, organized by the Chamber of Commerce, on "The high-speed train in Euskadi. New opportunities for tourism activity." But those conclusions, those do not draw them. Okay. Or also in Bilbao the III International Days on New Technologies in the Railway Sector, organized with the Basque Government and the International Railway Union. I'm sure it wasn't all the conclusions of your taste either. And what do you think of the analyses and studies by the European Commission, the Ministry of Development, Adif, concerning cost-benefit analyses or economic and social profitability? Or what do you think of the study "Demand and profitability of the project of new railway network of the Basque Country", included in the informative study of economic impact in the Basque Autonomous Community, carried out by the Institute of Public Economy of the University of the Basque Country? Are these ad hoc reports, made to the taste of the payer? It is important that we see in this House today an unequivocal support, even if it is not unanimous, once again, to the high-speed train and the Basque Y. And it is very important because we are in the foreground of municipal and out-of-town elections, which could confuse the citizen. That is why the groups that have amended their whole initiative have reached an agreement that sends a clear message to the Basques. The Basque Parliament supports the construction of the Basque Y, and the commitments will be fulfilled. And, as far as the People's Party is concerned, our commitment to the Basque Y does not admit discussion: 600 million euros on average in what we have been ruling as a legislature in Spain. General State Budgets and Official Gazette, that's what counts. Will, determination, seriousness, but above all the facts. And I refer to the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Vaquero, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u27	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good day to all of you presidents, chiefs and congressmen. These days of election in the Spanish State, several of them are making proposals against high-speed infractation, and the Basque Country has agreed with them. It is easy to publish such proposals as these during these period of crisis, easy and in this case, and I will explain. It is easy, because in a state where restrictions are suffered in certain services, the distribution of the money which the state makes is incomprehensible. It's easy to manipulate and easily to make a lot of investments without any planning at all. It's easy, and he thinks it's convenient to look at the election results, to compare the manipulation of the Basque Country to the Basque reality, to Spanish Basqueism, and it's not the first time. I'd like to explain a couple of things to anyone who wants to hear it. On the one hand, Euscataia is not the same as Spain, and therefore our starting-point is not the same. It's not the same in investments, planning, not even in human development. The growth models were not the same, not even the bet that was made on a high-speed train. And even the reports they have taken as the basis of the EH Collectors in the past few months have their gaps and interests, both political and economic. Before bet on the new railway system, what's the situation in Euskáta? In 1986, while he was writing the Euskal railway plan, the Euskal-ternatibs no longer exceeded the speed of 140 kilometres per hour. So they did not follow the instructions of the principal plan of Europe's infrastructure. The railway line was out of date, not compressive, even though it made investments on it. It often happens that the standard of Germany or France, as it has been made today, is not the same as the starting-point of the one and the other, nor in respect of the infrastructure, nor of the number of users. From different starting points, therefore, it is impossible to make the same diagnosis, as they do here. Different alternatives are investigated, and the conclusion is this: even after making investments in a conventional network, the railway network will not adapt to the modern standards required. On the other hand, the position of Euscadi, as is the case in Junqueran Catalonia, being the path between Penintsula and Europe, has its chances and difficulties. The trucks and cars that go every day along the border collapse our net, but in the eyes of the transports of merchandise it also creates opportunity in the transportation system. So you can't compare it, for instance, with the line Madrid-Toldo. It's also the beginning of Europe's bet on the railway line. It combines two main axiss, Atlantic and Mediterranean, with two access to the peninsula, and one of which, in the Atlantic, passes through the midst of our people. Twenty years later, when the civil work is almost over, when the decisions are made and invested, this work is demanded to be stopped, and certain investments made in the Spanish State are questioned. A movement is used to question the work that is doing in our country, and which is not comparative. The United States of the Basque Country places the records made by Federa on the table, and the author brings them to a feast of the Basque Laws, to discuss some of the Infractures of the Common-wealth, and to make some doubt of our example. That's right, when they come to the committee they don't say much about the Basque Y, because they don't know him. However, the Basque Country contains reports which Collect has to defend his arguments, but they have a few deficiencys. The basis of the defence of Euskal Herria Bildu, although it seems to be a lie, are studies that focus on the reality of the State and that do not capture the reality of Euskadi, but to which we do want to make some considerations, since many of the parameters used in the calculation of the reports are, as a matter of fact, questionable. In relation to income, toll income, i.e. the user fee paid by Renfe to Adif, is taken into account, but other income generated, such as energy for train traction, rental of facilities, use of stations and commercial premises, is not calculated as income. And the canon is half of Adif's income in these concepts. I am not going to talk about annual passenger growth figures, which is estimated at 2%, but in Spain, in the Spanish State, the lines currently have an annual increase of 10%. Nor do these studies reflect the avoided costs. For example, it does not include expenditure on other infrastructure that should be built to cover these traffics. Different realities are even compared at European level. Neither in the State, nor much less in Euskadi, is there a conventional network comparable to French or German, with very high average speeds. In the Basque conventional network, in the one operated by Euskotren, reaching speeds close to 160 kilometers per hour, as in Germany or as in France, is utopia. And with this I am not defending that no improvements are made on conventional lines, nor that everything has to be high speed. They also conclude these studies that high-speed investment is done at the expense of the conventional network, which is abandoned, another example that these studies do not reflect Basque reality. In the Basque Autonomous Community since 2006, the year in which the management commission was signed, until 2014 it has invested almost the same in improvements of the existing network, competence of the Basque administrations, as in the whole work of the Basque Y. In the Basque Y 1.515 million euros have been invested, and in the conventional network operated by Euskotren 1,231 million euros have been invested, to which should be added the investments of Metro Bilbao, 345 million euros more. That is to say, EUR 1,576 million, in addition to investments in the network of proximity operated by Renfe. Social benefits are not included in the social profit-of-exploitation account. While operating costs are envisaged, productivity-induced increases are also not incorporated. These and other data reflect that there are also gaps in these studies. In addition, there is another data that powerfully draws attention: from the reading of the findings of the latest studies published by Fedea, it is said that the high-speed lines of the Mediterranean axis recover part of the investment, and that their revenues, although not all count, cover the operating costs. That is, according to these authors, the infrastructure already built may not recover the investment costs, but it does not cost the taxpayer money once launched. Such claims are questioned by some of these authors' studies in the Atlantic Corridor. Can we understand that you're interested in that reading of support for one runner to the detriment of the other? Why is one line more strongly questioned than the other? Don't you think the Mediterranean Axis lobby has an influence on these claims, considering who Fedea's patrons are? Take a look at Fedea's patrons, to make some reading more than she does. To conclude, it is necessary to make evaluations before public investments, to examine the alternative, as was done; and I should say, which of them should be the model of resius. But in the presence of a work, which is almost finished by the civil work, though not in its favourable position, it is irresponsible to act in this endless rebissionism. You don't need to slow the rhythm of the works. What do you want? Is that a cover? Is this all coalition asking to stop the works? We could assume that the reports are not entirely perfect, but even the estimates which those you approve of are not fully announced, and consequently the results are not complete, they are not satisfactory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Vaquero. Passing to the uncorrected teams, Misto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u29	Yes, thank you, President. Briefly, to explain the position of UPyD in relation to the original motion and the transactional that the rest of the groups have signed, and what is the reason why I will vote for what I will explain below. We are going to vote against the motion put forward by EH Bildu, we are not going to support the temporary paralysis of the works of the high-speed train. We do not, of course, deny that all the studies that you consider are being carried out, or we are not going to stand against it, or we have nothing against the fact that a full monograph on the issue could be held in this Parliament (and we believe that it could even be very interesting), but we are obviously not going to support a motion which is essentially calling for the paralysis of works that are already under way. It seems to us that asking for that today is, in fact, an impossible, and we think quite the opposite, that they have to move forward and that they have to be completed. With regard to the compromise amendment signed by the other groups, if points were allowed to be voted on we would support the first of the points and the fourth, but we would not support the second or the third. We are not going to ask any government to shorten deadlines for this infrastructure. We're not gonna do this. It seems to us that there are more urgent matters than this. We believe that it is urgent to take care of people who are suffering the most from the crisis, we believe that the issue of social aid is more urgent, we believe that it is more urgent to take care of people at risk of social exclusion, we believe that it is much more urgent to improve education, we believe that it is much more urgent to improve health, we believe that it is much more urgent to support investment in R & D+i. This does not seem to us to be a priority. It must be done, as far as works in Euskadi are concerned, they must be completed, but, in the opinion of UPyD, we must not urge any government to shorten deadlines or anything like that, because, as I say, it does not seem to us to be a priority issue. Therefore, we are not with those who propose to paralyse and abandon the works of the high-speed train in Euskadi, nor with those with which for many years they have wasted public money throughout Spain in this infrastructure, in many cases for exclusively electoral or customer reasons, prioritizing absolutely unnecessary sections for simple electoral or party interests, or to benefit certain mayors or certain governments. And, in fact, this is something that has been done throughout and across Spain, more outside of Euskadi than inside. Especially outside of Euskadi, this is how it has been done, and therefore we are not going to support that way of doing politics. Therefore, and in conclusion, we would support points 1 and 4 of the compromise proposal. We are not going to support any government being asked to shorten deadlines. And, as far as the works of Euskadi are concerned, they must move forward, they must be completed, and we believe that it is impossible to ask them to paralyze today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u30	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing on the answers, Mr. Mazzu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u31	Eskerrik asko, legebiltrarburu anderea, berriro era. First of all, and as the only mention to Mr. Zaballos, I must say that I understand that today you have read El País. This is the first thing you have done this morning, and you have seen the headline that from Madrid you are told that in the upcoming elections neither with Bildu nor with the People's Party. So, today you have had to go out especially aggressive towards Euskal Herria Bildu. But from that to having to call us intolerant by bringing a subject to a parliament to debate, it seems to me that there is a rather large stretch. It does not give us (not just you, no one) any data to refute what is coming out in reports made by economic professors. They again use the same lies that continue to be used in recent years to continue spending billions of euros on infrastructure that has no social returns. The biggest lie you keep saying is that this is what Madrid pays for. Liar, we're paying for this between all Basques. For now, we pay for it among all the Basques. That it is true that there is a management order? Yeah. That it's true that the money isn't coming? Also. Because the liquidation of the quota is blocked, among other things, by the differences that exist in the liquidations of the works of the high speed train. Therefore, do not continue to use data that are false. But the biggest effort and the biggest piece of paper was that of Mrs Vaquero, who wanted to give a Basque label to the high-speed train, as if this had nothing to do with the high-speed planning of the Spanish State, as if the Basque Y had not been in the transport infrastructure plan of the Spanish State for ten years. Like the Basque Y, like the rest of the high speed in the Spanish state, has been made to unite all the provincial capitals with Madrid, from this centralist view. Who is the Spaniard of Basque politics? Euskal Herria Bildu? You are promoting a high-speed line designed to unite all the provincial capitals with Madrid. You're the ones doing it. And what we ask is data. When more than 3 billion are spent, the question is: will the high-speed train be economically and socially profitable? It is sad to ask this question when there are more than 3 billion spent, but it is that all the data makes us ask this question. There is a report that says that there is no profitable high-speed line in Spain; a report that says that the high-speed union between provinces that triple the number of inhabitants to what the whole Basque Autonomous Community has is not profitable. There is no recovery of investment, and there is a shortage of exploitation. Can you tell me how you are going to make the high-speed line profitable in number of users, which is key to making it socially profitable? Can you tell me, stop saying the word "strategic" and give me data, and give the citizenry data? Or are they going to be a subway between three capitals? Are we going to spend more than EUR 6 billion to serve 1% of movements, of the movements that exist in the Basque Autonomous Community? Is that the secret formula of the high-speed train, making one meter between the three capitals, spending more than 6 billion euros to give that service? It is you who are the Spaniards of Basque politics. Its infrastructure policy is the same as that of Spain: pharaonic investment policy, only for the pockets of a few companies. That is what is being done in Spain, and that is what you are doing here also in the Basque Autonomous Community. In Spain, we already know what this policy is doing. We have seen how unjustified costs have been paid, how unjustified expenditure is being inflated, as is being done here in the Basque Autonomous Community. In the rest of Spain it has been to receive envelopes, envelopes of donations, to finance political parties. I'll leave some envelopes here for you. What is going on here is the last report the European Commission has drawn up, the last report on what are the cost-benefit criteria for high-speed lines and for other investments. Read it, look what this report says, and see that there is not a single report from the Basque Government that follows the cost-benefit criteria recommended by the European Commission. They'd probably expect to find something else inside these envelopes. I believe that Basque citizenship is going to thank much more for doing a real cost-benefit study to get you another kind of envelope.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u32	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Basque Socialists, Mr. Wides, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, Mr Dani Maeztu, the Socialist Party respects in this House that there are initiatives that are approved that go against the positions that my own party has, and even that the very initiatives that we are presenting are rejected. We respect it, that's democracy. When I say that you are intolerant, it is that you continue, continue, and continue and continue to hope that the only solution to cut this campaign against the high-speed train is for an initiative to come out here in favour of your positions. That's why I think you're intolerant, because there are other majorities (and you have to respect), there are other majorities that can think differently than you. That's democracy. Transport lines, Mr Maeztu, are not profitable. None. Tell me, so much so that you talk about cost-benefit studies, which transport line is profitable. Tell me. Yeah, but you say cost-benefit analysis. We would have no subway from Bilbao, no subway from Donostialdea, no tram from Vitoria, no tram from Bilbao. We wouldn't have any, none, because no transport line is profitable. The same campaign you're doing against the TAV, it's the same one you did against Leizaran's highway. You were opposed, you were opposed, you were opposed... and now I'd like to know where you're going to Navarra. And I'd like to... I have no idea, Mr. Maeztu, I can't tell you when the high-speed train will arrive in Euskadi, but if I see you, or Mr. Matute, on the high-speed train... It's just that there's not enough wagon to run! [[Barres]] And lastly, Mr. Maneiro from UPyD. You say that you will vote in favour of the first and fourth points, and the abstention of the second and third points. I am surprised, Mr Maneiro, because the third point is a literal copy of the compromise amendment which you yourself signed and voted on. And at no time do we talk about "in the shortest possible time." It does not mean that deadlines are shortened, but that those that are are met and that the competent bodies do not extend it. You therefore voted in favour of this two years ago, and I am surprised that you are now abstaining. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u34	Thank you, Mr. Wides. Mrs. Ruiz, representing the Basque Potula, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u35	Thank you, President. Mr Maeztu, no matter how much you stage it in this rostrum, it does not give you any more reason or representation, and today it is going to prove itself. Returning to its initiative, however much it also ignores us in its turn of replica, as if the People's Party had nothing to do with the reality of the Basque Y, I will tell you that the People's Party, which we govern throughout Spain, has invested in what goes from legislature to 2.3 billion euros in this infrastructure. And that in the General State Budgets has meant a 17% increase. The investment rate of the Government of Spain is 600 million euros a year, and at this rate is the determination..., this budget is going to allow us to have this completed infrastructure in four years' time. And I refer to the facts. As is already known, in the Gipuzcoan branch the platform works are in execution up to Astigarraga, and works have been completed in three sections, and another six are expected to be completed. In Bizkaia there are seven stages with the platform works completed, another seven in works, three of which will be completed in 2015. This semester will be awarded works tendered in the Atxondo-Abadiño sections. Work on the Mondragon-Bergara platform, Kobate sector, has begun, and the work on the recently awarded Angiozar platform was also tendered in October. And so you could continue with facts, Mr. Maeztu. So, as you will understand, we are not going to vote on your motion, and that is why we have agreed with the rest of the amending groups a text that will make clear and make clear once again the will of this House, which will not be unanimous, but it is a majority, on the importance we attach to this infrastructure. And I say that it was important to symbolize today, in this agreement, no fissure between those of us who bet on the Basque Y, because it is true, and it has been remembered by some other spokesman, that we are in pre-campaign and campaign, and there is a risk that we may disagree in some shade, in some way, but the fundamental thing will be demonstrated today once again with the amendment that we have agreed on by the three groups. Here I leave the envelopes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Madame Vaquero, the Eubertarian representative of the team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u37	Thank you. Mr. Mazezu, who has no arguments, no shame. You're using the lie as an argument. And these envelopes. [[He took some envelopes]] At the theatre we are not at home, I think your conportation seems to me purely infitilism. Even if the dome settlement is stopped, it's not for the train. If not, read the order sent from the government to the Socialist Group. You've even talked about the overstudy. What overrun them? Read the reports that M. M.M. is sent to Parliament, page three, it's over 8%, read it, it's the last time in March. And you mentioned the pathons of Faith and something suspicious. You know what his patrons are, don't you? Among them, Aberts. Aristris, if you don't know, is líder Internal de la gestionón de autopathes in Spain, Europe and Ithroamica, and among them, A-8's Gestia. It's understandable that someone who checks the highways should not be betting on the train, but the highway. And I'm telling you, I know you don't like it, but please stop Spanish Basque.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Vaquero. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u39	Yes, briefly to answer Mr Zaballos, since he has pointed out that he is surprised by my position. I am surprised that you are surprised by the position of UPyD, because I believe that in this matter it is the most sensible and reasonable position. I mean, we support the first point and the fourth. We believe that this Parliament must indeed support the construction of the new Euskadi rail network, which is part of the trans-European rail corridor of priority character Madrid-Vitoria-Dax, and we have no problem in asking for all the necessary studies, as is done and proposed in the fourth point. But we are not going to ask any government to meet deadlines or shorten them, nor are we going to tell any government that this infrastructure is urgent, indispensable or priority, because it does not seem to us at all. It seems to us that the priority, given the situation in which thousands of people find themselves, is to care for the people and citizens who are suffering the most from the crisis, and for those citizens who are in the worst situation. Therefore, for us the priority is education, health, R & D & i and social spending. That is why we shall abstain on the second and third points. Many things have been done wrong in relation to the AVE in Spain, and in Euskadi possibly things could have been done differently, but in any case we are not going to ask for or for deadlines that some have set or these deadlines to be shortened. We do not think that this infrastructure is a priority; after all, we cannot forget that this infrastructure will be used by a small part of society, and not precisely that part of society that is in a worse situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u40	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The discussion is over and we'll vote for the original text of the EH Collect group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 54; white; 0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u41	Original text not allowed. We'll next vote for the Esquila Populars, the Euscalia Sociists, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eubertists. No points requested. Is there a problem voting on points? No? Okay. Then we vote first, 4 points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 21; white, 0; abstations are 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u42	As a result, points number one and four have been accepted. Next, we'll vote for points two and three. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 53; the opponents are 21; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u43	2nd and 3 points have been approved. Third point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced by the Congress of the Homeer Barbadillo EH Collector, is the attitude of the President of the Catalunia as the principal political forces of Catalonia have agreed to produce the State of Catalonia. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Ariz, it's your word to introduce and remove initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u44	Egun where you're going. September 2028: Catalonia celebrates the tenth anniversary of its independence; meanwhile, in the campes de Foronda the candidate for lehendakari by the Basque Nationalist Party promises that the consultation will be held in the next legislature. This could be a Radio Basque news in 13 years. It may be that way or not, it may depend on us. We don't want it to happen like that. And therefore we have come to this legislature, for the first time, confessing that it is one of the principal squares of the Basque Country, to ask for engagements, especially because it is required by the people. We are required by the people to express commitments, and to express them with clearness and exactness. So it has been mentioned to us, when we have brought this discussion here, that the election of the town is very close, and that the election is somehow infected by the whole dispute. Around that, we have some questions. It's the first thing to do when the elections are not in this wonderful country. There hasn't been an election in a year, and we'd like to ask what has been done that year. And, further, if it be so proposed, we should perhaps think, that if these political controversies are to be removed from the centre by elections, the legislature would either confine its functions, or at least shut the doors in a few months, because we are always in elections. On the other hand, we have been accused that these topics must be transferred to the self-organization team, and must not be brought here to the full meeting. It's like a self-generacy team has decided or who knows what it's decided by God. We know: EAJ and PSE agreed to the course of the autogobernus, which have been decided by their rhythms and rhythms, and have decided, above all, that this political discussion must be the chief function of the auto-bernu group, because they are not at all interested in it at the moment. Besides, they've decided for the moment that this group of self-interests should not serve for any consent, they've also agreed that no political agreement will be performed in it, at least for the moment, and so on. And they've also agreed to not make up their minds to make a decision on the self-generon team, so we won't make up our minds for the moment, and that's how we'll continue. And we think that's not what people want. I think the citizens spoke openly in their autonomical elections and told us what they wanted. And it is for us to turn this people's will from this legislature. That's what we'd like. This is why we had to bring the subject into this whole assembly. In the end, if this is one of the principal political squares of the Basque Country, let us speak from here, let the people hear it, and speak plainly, to understand and know where every one is, and what every one desires. We want clarity and concreteness. We want commitments, and we want clear and concise commitments, concrete ones, because that's what people are demanding, that's what citizens are demanding, that we tell them clearly about what everyone's goal is. We ask PP and PSE many other things, but clearness or accuracy is not one of them, because we have a clear and clear notion of what they think. But we have not so clearly what other people think, or what they want, that we ask them to speak plainly and distinctly. And we will be the ones who will begin to speak clearly and accurately. On the one hand, whether the right of deciding is sufficient, or, in other words, to determine a new political state, a democratic compact is sufficient? I mean, are there 48 of 75 members of the legislature, or aren't they? We say yes, that's enough. We want to know what the others think. Someone said, and besides, what I'm talking about isn't anybody, because he's the president, the chief director of this Autonomia Er member, and he said that we have to look for as much harmony as we can, he said, "cauerdo incluyente," y que ese acuerdo inculente titente, a contemp didodo, an elNV, EH y Parto Socista. We believe that this is a plan, clearly knowing what the Socialist Party thinks about this subject, the right of veto is to admit to the Socialist Party. And considering that the Social Party is becoming more and more politically backward, it has been the function that has given itself to be the short rope of PNV. The Socialist Party is increasingly behind on this issue, the Socialist Party of Euskadi is behind even Ramon Jáuregui, and yet they are going to continue to be more and more behind, because they understand that the fundamental political function that they have in this political time is to be the rope that binds the PNV so that the PNV does not go forward. If there is an agreement with the Socialist Party, that agreement will not be the right to decide. And we want to know whether that is the agreement that the Basque Nationalist Party wants; whether it wants an agreement with the Socialist Party knowing that if the PSE enters, the right to decide comes out. We don't want to make that deal. Because there is no new political States without the rights of deciding. The rights to decide are adopted by the new political state. And concerning this, we ask this Assembly of Laws, what they think, what other men think, whether it is possible to speak of a new political Common-wealth, without the right to determine. We want the right to decide, and we want it because we want to decide everything. And we believe that there is no new political status if there is no right to decide, if it does not contemplate the exercise of the right to decide. We want, among other things, to be able to decide relations with the rest of the Basque territories; we want to be able to define, to be able to decide here what relations we want to have with the rest of Euskal Herria's legal-administrative spheres. We also want to be able to decide the level of competition that we are going to give ourselves. And we also want to decide, of course, what relationship we want to have with the Spanish State. And for us and for us, for those of us who form EH Bildu, the only limit is the popular will of the democratically expressed Basque citizenship. And this is a question, that is to ask the people, to ask the people. And this is one of the other things we bring about: "Is there a question, or is it not?" Is it not in this law? Let's be frank. "To a good understanding, few words are enough," says a Spanish saying, and gives us the impression that the third point that the PNV has brought in in its amendment to the whole is precisely the opposite. It's "The more words the better, so that you understand as little as possible." We ask for clarity, we ask for concreteness. In this way, I have already mentioned that elections are close, that the elections are ready, the elections of council and foru are not to be left out of this political debate, but are not to be decided by any decision, which is to be determined by what we are now to do. And therefore we must be very consistent with what we shall now have, in order to measure and determine the steps to come. That's why this is not the first time we've asked this question, but I'll repeat it again, because for the moment it was the only answer. In this way of deciding, by the following municipal and foru elections, our question is clear: for the right of deciding all the municipal and foru-warhouses, yes or no? Well, if there is a government made with PSE or PP, it is clear that governments on the side of the right are not to be decided. And these governments may have a lever paper, a paper, or a paper on this path, in this process, or quite contrary, may be hindered. Mr. President himself said of an interview, that to remove the Gipurian Government, there should be some bargains, and that it would be the same with PSE, or PP, or both. We also want to know whether this is the position of EAJ, whether we have governments for the right of deciding in all countries, or at least as far as we are concerned in Araban, Usca, and Gipuzia, or whether it will not be so. We want to ask this question because every time we've made it silence has been the only answer we've got. Taking into account the importance of the forthcoming out-of-town and municipal elections and the resulting governments, we ask loud and clear: Will the municipal and out-of-town governments that emerge from those elections be all governments in favour of the right to decide? Because if they are made with the PSE or if they are made with the PP it is clear that they will be governments against the right to decide, and therefore we ask for clarity and concreteness. In this too, clarity and concreteness. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ray. Passing the corrections, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u46	Thank you, President. Finally, it is obvious that we are faced with a debate which raises EH Bildu and which has only one addressee, which is the Basque Nationalist Party. It's the nationalist battle, it's the fratricidal war between nationalists. EH Bildu's goal is to put against the ropes Joseba Egibar's team and company, the Basque Nationalist Party. Put him in his contradictions, leave him in evidence. That is the obvious objective. And to us, in the end, it does not seem bad that EH Bildu tries to put his finger in the eye of the Basque Nationalist Party, it does not seem bad that EH Bildu demands concreteness and clarity from the Basque Nationalist Party. We too demand the Basque Nationalist Party, concrete and clear, to say exactly what it wants. Therefore, it does not seem to us wrong that each political group here should put forward its proposals and that, making use of this Parliament, it should try to attack one party or another by leaving it or by trying to leave it in evidence. I believe that each political group will then or will not have the capacity to resolve that fratricidal war, in this case between nationalists. I will, of course, try to be as clear and as concrete as possible, and I believe that our whole amendment is sufficiently clear. And this amendment of all that seeks above all, rather than explaining what reforms UPyD would propose in relation to the Spanish Constitution or in relation to the model of state, or in relation to what is called the Euskadi lace in Spain, what we have intended to do is, let us say, delimit the field of play, remember what is the field of play, remember what are the rules to which we must adjust. Explain what rules and norms prevail in our democracy. And that is why we have tabled the amendment we have tabled, because it seems to us fundamental, especially in those parliaments where there is much nationalism, to remember what is the current legality, the foundation of the democracy that we enjoy. And that is why we propose that this Parliament should remember that any decision on the territorial model of the State and the Spanish Constitution itself belongs to all Spanish citizens, and that it should be carried out through the established legal procedures. As I say, we do not even say what our proposal is in relation to the model of state. This will come later, within a few plenary sessions. What we do is we delimit the playing field and the rules. To remind, therefore, the whole House and society that there are rules, that there are rules, that there are laws that all of us, without exception, must comply with. Whether or not supported by this Parliament, these are the facts and reality, whether you like nationalism as a whole or not.: and the territorial model of the State, the future of the country, the reform or not of the Spanish Constitution, corresponds to all Spanish citizens. In other words, the right to decide on these issues rests with the Spanish society as a whole. There have been some political representatives who have recently come to say that the right to decide does not exist. It does exist, but it is based on the competencies of each administration, each autonomous community or each country. And in this case, it must be said that the right to decide belongs to all Spanish citizens. The right to decide in relation to the future of the country or in relation to the model of State belongs to all Spanish citizens. Under no circumstances can a part of the citizenry decide on the territorial organization of the State or on any other aspect or precept of the Constitution, excluding the rest of the eventual decision. No authority or public authority has the right to deprive all or part of the citizens residing in its territory of the rights and freedoms which the Constitution recognizes and guarantees to each and every Spanish citizen. In a social and democratic state of law, no one is above the law, and he cannot afford to cut the body of citizenship or redefine the subject of national sovereignty, which is nothing other than the whole of the citizens, who alone can exercise, by the legally established channels, the right to decide on the unity of the country and the rights of the whole of the citizens. And this is objectively so. And, just as if UPyD wants to reform the LTH it must propose to do so through the established legal procedures and respecting what this Parliament says, both the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu, as well as any other group, if they want to reform the Constitution or change the fit of Euskadi in Spain, they must respect, we must respect the stipulated channels, the established competences and the vote of all citizens. This is, as I say, the core of democracy, but it is worth remembering. Furthermore, whether this Parliament has powers that it does not have, or whether it can say that Euskadi has the right to self-determination, or that the Basque people can decide their future outside the existing legal framework, is simply and simply a wet paper. It has no relevant legal value, it has no value, because the facts are the ones I have pointed out before. All democratic political projects can be defended, but they must respect the existing legality and established procedures for their final implementation. That, I think, is fundamental, and this is important, for each political party to say what it wants, and when, and how it intends to achieve it. And on this point it is clear that the Basque Nationalist Party must be pointed out again, so that it can explain and explain to all citizens exactly what it wants, with whom it intends to carry it forward, and what deadlines are set. Therefore, clarity in each of the political groups, and especially in the case of the Basque Nationalist Party, which has historically always played two bands. Having said that, which is first of all a democracy, there is the political debate and what everyone can think about the proposals of another. To me, for example, calling for the independence of Euskadi, instead of defending a united Europe without internal borders, seems absurd to me, and also very damaging to the Basque citizens. I think it's better to break down borders than to lift them. I think it is better to expand living spaces than to sharpen them. I think it is a huge waste of time to discuss collective identities rather than citizens' rights. I believe that the priority is to try to respond to the real needs of society as a whole. With regard to EH Bildu's independenceist proposal, I will only say that it is profoundly anti-democratic and clearly illegal. Not only that, but it is also absurd in the globalised world in which we live today and in the Europe of free citizens we want to build. We prefer to continue working and to continue demanding a Europe of free and equal citizens, a Europe without walls or borders or internal barriers, a Europe with more transparent and democratic institutions than we have at our disposal today, and a Europe more available, more willing, more prepared to face the major global challenges, and more able to improve the lives of the people living in it. Today being a small state, country or territory has many more disadvantages than advantages, except for the sentimental advantages of some, in which it is not even worth entering. We, therefore, aspire to live in a united, diverse, solidarity-based Europe, where everyone's feelings are shared and where all citizens have the same rights and obligations, and, of course, more social, more equal and more solidarity-based. Finally, if the nationalists have not been convinced by the second part of my speech, we must remember the first part. In other words, we have to remember the existing legality and the rule of law, and the Spanish Constitution. And we must remember that the territorial model of the State we decide among all Spanish citizens, and that citizenship cannot be divided, and that sovereignty belongs to all citizens, and that the right to self-determination or the right to decide which nationalists pose does not exist in any democratic constitution of the world. Since it is virtually impossible to convince nationalists, we focus on our amendment to remember what the Constitution says, what the current law says, what the rules on which our democracy is based say. I therefore call on all groups to vote in favour of the UPyD amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u47	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Egibar, the Egibar, who is the representative of the team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u48	I'd like to start with a couple of questions. How bad are things? Are you guys that bad? Or both? I've heard a huge negative analysis during the time of your motion reporting. And then you're starting to tell us a big lie that PNV and Socialist Party have awakened the course of power, content, when, what. And I remember that Laura, who was a spokesman before you, was said to have acted for a couple of months and that we had a deal closed between PNV and PSOE, the chief divisions were already divided. And then time went by, and what? A thesis cannot be founded on a lie, and the beginning of this thesis is false. And you ask for clarity and commitments. Look, let's be honest or true, transparent. The year before last, on April 14, Pello Uizar, your parlamentary member, looked at him as an interpenetration and then presented the motion around the new political state. To ask the President, to answer, to introduce the motion, and you've kept him sleeping there for eight months, and on December 23rd, as Santa Claus is coming, and you've left him out of the discussions of this Chamber. It's the same with Scotland. I mean, there is a kind of competition between your calendar and your needs and your political state: this house to be built between its eroscal course or all of them, where an event of yours is introduced into this parliament. And besides, look at the use you've made. One, you take as a kind of support what happened in Katalunia, CiU and Nosque and CUPek, but CiU and Left made a career sheet and a signed line. I'll ask you a question. Do you think that this career sheet, theirs, would be possible by fighting among them, just as you are doing? To whom, when to take the back, or to do it, or to create a situation which may be uncomfortable? Is that what you're thinking about? It's an extra base? Does that show political maturity? What is it that brings us together to present proposals to this congress? Where's the motive or the motive? Why should you present it, keep it hidden for eight months, then disappear in Christmas, as well as with other proposals? And now you're making a suggestion to the president about Catalonia, and just in the last lines of your interaction you're asking questions about the interrogation, and you're introducing the motion to see if he'll be questioned or not. What's your hurry? Why are there four points in your motion: the third, to make a democratic political treaty in the legislature, and to question the peoples in the fourth place. You're missing the main one, the principal ones: It's the agreement of this parliament. Or didn't you? You don't need a deal? And then you throw him out of the safe way and say: " 48 miles from 75. Or didn't you? "as you said, or didn't you? "Habá que preguna uno, porque ignorant no somos los 48." Iruditzen zaizu zintzoa smiles from hours? Niri feather ematen said. Zergatik, begitu, Legebiltzar honetan, in this Parliament, no longer with a motion, which also has its importance and relevance, or with a non-law proposal, no; by voting law, law (which is not that we have been near a vote, no; we have stared in a vote), all members of the Basque Nationalist Party, also some of EAs who are represented there (they are not them, but yes Mr Matute), we all vote yes. The left abertzale, who was (so close not) leading that vote, so clearly had the right to decide, that three voted in favour and three against. Three in favour, three against: Arnaldo Otegi, Joseba Permach and Salaberria in favour; Jone Goirizelaia, Raquel Peña and Joseba Alvarez, against. And the seventh was reorganized ETA, Josu Urrutikoetxea. Three in favor, three against... the result is zero. Law, law. But there was another law, the law of consultation, consultation to which you refer, consultation, in June 2008. How many votes in favour of the left abertzale in favour of the consultation? I'm sure you don't remember. Not at all! Does anyone know? One vote, one vote. O sera, where is the memory of pollenítica que tenéis vosotros? "Y venís con una encomenda, uneminento, para decadidamos como pueblo, etcétera, etcéera?" "Pues me pair of muy bien, pero yo only standest reflexixones." When you say, "When the interests of the Party are victorious, independence is overcome and injured." Okay. Then put aside interest. Then leave the party interests alone! You say: "We are going our way as a village, aren't we? "I don't know. Mr. Ariz, this town is making its way for many years, isn't it? What does it mean, that from that day you have done the choice of political and democratic paths, the people began their career? You don't mean that. Well, this town took a few steps, a lot of steps on top of it. Therefore I ask you, I repeat, not justice and loyalty, but truth. Be true, be clear, disagree, why we have our opinions. But what you have seen is what is the amendment of all of us, and you yourself have said something about the third point, this may be a matter of such confusion, a thesis. No, this is Quebec, this is Canada. Klaro, it's not the witness of one-sided strategy, why you've done so little politically here on one side, because it was only a few years ago, but not between the political parties, but the Spanish Government and you. Where was the committee? It was on both sides, hoping it would be effective. And now one side away. Well, guk esaten duguna da, éta hauek dira gure hiru oinarriak... Because then there are also people who say that the PNV has to be clarified, that it has to say... I quote again, pages 255 to 261 of the programme: we say "The Basque Parliament...", we propose that "in a new time of political coexistence it would be up to us to share" (this is our position, to share with the rest of political formations) "that the Basque people constitute a political subject with the right and the capacity to decide on their future, to be consulted, and that their democratically expressed will be respected". Is this diffused? Is it not understood what the right to decide, the constitution and the recognition of a political subject is? Don't you get it? I'm sure it is. Second point: "The method of resolving conflicts is based on dialogue, negotiation, the broadest agreements between political forces, or, failing that, on respect for the free and democratic will of the majority." Is it not understood that it is the search from dialogue, negotiation, the broadest possible consensus, but that neither can the capacity or possibility of veto, that what this Parliament freely and democratically and mostly defines, or the whole of the citizenry, is what must be the guide of conduct and respect that the institutions and political parties must profess? And the third point, of course, is not a gloss of unilaterality. What it says is that the most basic democratic principle, that there have been quite a few participants in the self-government presentation that have referred to this machaconically democratic principle, and not necessarily by speakers called by nationalist forces, that there have also been people of another ideological obedience who have underlined the democratic principle... He says that "the most basic democratic principle requires that the majority will of the citizenry be given a relevant normative value, which means that the political and institutional actors concerned must negotiate the necessary adjustments to respond to the clear expression of that will".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u49	Mr. Egibar, go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u50	These are three bright points which this group will defend from the first moment to the last. By the way, in those three minus three votes equal to zero, those of the Basque Nationalist Party, among others starting with the Lehendakari Urkullu and the one who speaks to you, we vote yes. We didn't have a scare on our bench and some left and voted no. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u51	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing over the uncorrected teams, Mr. Sémper is the representative of the Basque Potional Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Eguerdi on guztioi, Mr. lehendakari, counselors. 2028, newspaper information reflecting parliamentary debate: "When he woke up, the dinosaur was still there." "This is one of our evils," Monterroso wrote, but it hits us a lot. It follows the dinosaur of permanent debates, of the fairy tale that moves but does not advance in this Parliament. Or, what is the same, said in another way much less literary, "always it happens the same, it happens the same." Well, as long as we debate the same thing, we say the same thing. It is inevitable that we will reproduce in this Parliament not only the debates, but the very content that gives these debates, and we are not making progress. And we're still paralyzed, always with the same bat. Cyclically, with one or another envelope, this debate is brought to this House by the nationalists (today it is up to the gentlemen of Bildu, other days it has been up to you). Using one or another euphemism, using some or other arguments, but always saying the same thing. With different wraps, always saying the same thing. You don't move forward, you don't move forward, you don't move forward, you don't move forward, you don't move forward, you don't move forward, you don't move forward, you don't move forward, you don't move forward, you don't move And we, the rest of us, those who are not independentists, also, insecure of discouragement, attend this debate, with more patience than you win, and we attend their knives (today Bildu plays the Basque Nationalist Party), I have to recognize it, with a certain intellectual hastyness. Because you, you, share the papers, or you simply share the blame. Today we have witnessed that tone and that spirit of debate, the "and you more", the "what is your road map? Mine is this one, the "I'm going faster", the "you're going slower", the "you don't say what you have to say", "it's that you voted I don't know what", "it's that you're taller, you're lower...", "it's that you believe it", "you're independent" and "you don't"... What a joke this is! But what a spectacle you make us suffer cyclically in this Parliament! But haven't we noticed the problems out there? Have we not noticed the constant reproduction of the day of the marmot in this House? But have we not realized, have you not realized how far away this type of debate is, this way even of discussing, this content of the debate, the political and social reality in the Basque Country? Are they really that far away? Do we really live in such different countries? Do you really believe that the priority of this land is this "and you more" among nationalists, this shipwreck show? Do you really believe that this debate brings something positive to Euskadi? Does anyone really believe that this debate is upbuilding for the Basques as a whole, even for those who are nationalists, even for many who consider themselves and define themselves as independenceists? Is it true that this is the spectacle, this is the debate that this House wants to project to citizens in the 21st century, in the year 2015? We don't have work to do, we don't have debates to reproduce, we don't have agreements to try to reach, so that this is your debate and that we all have (what are we going to do) to get into it? Well, look, we're also insecure of discouragement, what we're going to do to you. And we only have one road map, what we're going to do to him too. We only have a road map, which is the one that marks the rule of law: democracy, laws, those that if they don't like change, don't jump. Those who, if they are believed to be ineffective or not responding to a social and political reality, change, do not alter, do not pervert, do not break. Because we believe that in a democratic and social state of law such as this one, even if some do not finish believing it completely and although some others also, as in this case you, from time to time, cyclically question it, only from the respect of the norms that we have endowed ourselves to live with we can continue to live together, we can continue to progress, we can continue to grow as a society, we can continue to offer and give citizens a useful answer to their problems. But, I insist, only from the observance of legality and its modification, if it is to be modified, will we be able not to look like what has happened in Catalonia and to look like a much more modern society, much more useful for citizens, where coexistence is the main motivation of anyone who dedicates himself to politics. Mr. Egibar, you understand what you write; what happens is that you don't understand what you want, I have to confess it to you. If what they write is understood! We must make an effort, it is true, because the euphemism that you use to exhaustion and to the end – and here, without precedent (and I hope not to give a headline), I agree with Mr. Arraiz de Bildu – is a permanent use, a linguistic engineering to not finish getting wet and saying what you really want, that is true... I insist, you understand. Is the Basque people a political subject with the right and the capacity to decide on their future? Of course he's a political subject, I've told him many times! I don't know why you question that Euskadi, the Basque Autonomous Community, is a political subject, such as the City Hall of Vitoria, such as the City Hall of San Sebastian...! Each with its own sphere of competence, of course. Sure! He is a subject with political institutions who makes decisions about his area of competence. Of course he's a political subject! Why does the Basque Nationalist Party constantly strive to question the political capacity and our consideration as a political subject with full rights, and continually question it? The method of conflict resolution. What conflict? There is a disparity of criteria, a disparity of opinions, various ways of dealing with reality... Democracy, Mr Egibar, gentlemen of Bildu, you understand, is a permanent conflict. A plural society, a plural society, is conflict. Democracy, coexistence in democracy, is conflict, it is discrepancy, it is shock, they are different points of view, to face reality and to make decisions. But this conflict is resolved only within the legality, only within the agreement, within the wisdom, not the fruit of the navajeo, not the result of particular interests that turn their backs on the general interests of the Basque Autonomous Community, of the Basques in short, which are very plural. Because all attempts to homogenize always end the same way. You know which one? Bad. "And the most basic democratic principle" – this is the part that fascinates me most, point 3)... "The most basic democratic principle requires that the majority will of citizens be given a relevant normative value, which means that the political actors and institutions concerned must negotiate the necessary adjustments to respond to the clear expression of that will". Man, it's not that it's a gallimacy, it's a way to say nothing, Mr. Egibar. And we've been in the whole legislature asking them to get wet and actually say what they really want, say what they really believe. Do you want Euskadi's independence, yes or no, Mr. Egibar? Because these gentlemen know we do. They sometimes use euphemisms, but they want the independence of Euskadi. Well, problem solved. Do you want Euskadi's independence, yes or no, Mr. Egibar? You have a magnificent opportunity to come out here and say, "My goal in politics is to achieve an independent Euskadi." Say it, and then we negotiate, we talk, we argue, in the paper or wherever you want. But what do you want? Do you want Euskadi's independence, yes or no? Do you want it? It would be important to know, in order to at least be able to play on equal terms. We do not want an independent Euskadi, Mr Egibar, we want an integrated Euskadi in Europe, and therefore in Spain. We want to find what unites us. We know what separates us, but we want to deepen what unites us; we want to seek collaboration, understanding. We want to be stronger and bigger; we don't want to be smaller and weaker. We believe that that is good for Euskadi, a future understanding not with the rest of Spain, which also, but first among Basques. First among Basques, because diversity, being in the whole of Spain and being something positive, is also in Euskadi. And this land of ours is also very diverse, absolutely diverse, plural, heterogeneous, and we believe it is one of its greatness. And that someone intends to impose, homogenize one Euskadi over another, is a profound error that only leads to confrontation and tension. And, by answering Mr. Arraiz's question, you were asking, "What do you want?" or "What are you going to do?". Well, look, I tell you this: from the governments of Álava and Vitoria, of course, not to the independence of Euskadi, and where we also have the opportunity to defend an integrated, collaborative, integrated Euskadi in Europe, integrated in Spain, that seeks what unites us between Basques and also with the rest of the Spaniards, we will do it, and the votes of the People's Party will be aimed at that. Because we think it's much better (what we're going to do to him) understanding before confrontation. We believe it. We believe that it is much better to look for what unites us with Basques than to permanently reproduce debates that only abound and deepen in what separates us. What are we going to do to him! We believe it. Because we believe that it is much better to work for being more competitive, more modern, in a more developed society where citizens are more free and have more opportunities, than to look for a smaller Euskadi with a larger navel. We think it's much better.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u53	Mr. Sémper, finish up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u54	And finally, Madam President, let us learn from experience, let us all learn from experience. In this very Parliament, and Mr Egibar reminded him in another way and with another intention, there have been many debates here and there have been many votes, and we know where certain positions have led us, we know where unilaterality has led us, which you so much like to talk about. It has led us to more rift, to more confrontation. Basque society is tired, I honestly believe that it is tired, that it is tired of the confrontation of its politicians, and it is tired of political debates for politicians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u55	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u56	Thank you, President. I think you're wrong, Mr. Semper. You haven't been asked anything by Mr. Arraiz, he cares about a pepper. I was asking the Basque Nationalist Party, which was the object. Look, I've even had doubts whether or not we were really invited to come up to this rostrum to participate in a debate between bad families. Because I've been taught since I was a kid that in family fights, you'd better not get involved. But, anyway, I think what it does do is say what we think. And you bring us here to have a debate that, honestly, you know, we have had dozens of times in this House, and in which I am afraid that the arguments that will be used will be the same ones that have been used dozens of times. And the only new thing is probably his presence here in this rostrum, nothing more, because the rest is the same old speech on this subject as ever. And all this, why? For to re-stage, at a very concrete electoral moment, a struggle between nationalists to see who is more consistent, more radical in their nationalist aspirations; to see who has the greatest – the sovereignist will, I say – and dare to say the word independence or to date the said consultation. In the interpellation of this motion, Bildu, acting from Esquerra Republicana but without barretin, proposed to the lehendakari (i.e. the PNV) to put in place in the Basque Country the sovereignist machinery activated in Catalonia by the president of the Generalitat. A dynamic that we know what's causing, right? It has fractured Catalan society, by the way, more and more, and has thrown a legislature to waste in the midst of a crisis. For what? To get nowhere. But in any case, you said, "No, it's about seeing if we're moving forward." No, no, this isn't going forward! This is going towards the cliff, exactly at the edge of Catalonia right now. Mr. Arraiz even took the rabbit out of the joker to rescue the Plan Ibarretxe (by the way, you were delighted in the self-government speech listening to Mr. Ibarretxe), and he takes it as a starting point to see if he was taking the jelts in the resignation. But I think the play went wrong, because the Ibarretxe Plan for the PNV is both a milestone to preserve and defend in word, and an experience from which they came out absolutely scalded. So the lehendakari told him that thank you very much, but that they had their own road map; that they don't want to see themselves on the curb of hanging from the brush, as Mr. Mas has remained, and much less hostages of you, as Convergence is of Republican Left in Catalonia. And then you said curious things. He wants to know if the municipalities are going to have majorities to push the right to decide. Well, good times! Now I find out that the municipal elections in May are not for the municipalities to solve people's problems, to talk about urbanism, housing, care for the elderly, residences, sustainability... No, no! They are to decide whether we support the right to decide or not. Look at you! You have just discovered a new form of municipal elections which I believe is not exactly what Basque citizens are thinking, much less. And now you bring back this reformulated question and now you are asking the government for a consultation before the end of the legislature, on the basis of a political agreement that you call democratic but whose content you avoid specifying, to see if it fits, but that by the statement and by the origin, it is evident from what you speak: the right to decide, and independence. If I do not deny you clarity, neither will they deny us! That's why I was telling him we're a little bit of a stone guest here. This could have been solved by you in Sabin Etxea or at your headquarters, you would have thrown your stuff at your head a little bit, and we would have already heard from the newspapers where that had come from. Because here the words bear almost everything, the facts no longer so much. Because it is very symptomatic that in their motion they put first the tool, the consultation, and then the content: the agreement between different, the agreement between the political forces, between different sectors of Basque society... This society that I understand that disgusts you, but it's that it's basically diverse, plural and different, and it's going to remain so. Because you know perfectly well that what you propose, beyond the electoral effect, that your electorate will be able to serve, is virtually impossible, when what you really intend to do is to deny that plural and diverse society that still exists, and that will be so. I understand that you would like another Euskadi, one in which we were all like you, or at least, like Mr Egibar, to make up for a little, but that is not what we like. In other words, we are not going to enter into an auction of occurrences, nor a project contest, nor do we believe in that right to decide in abstract form, which does not exist in any democratic country in the world and which is only used to camouflage what is really meant: independence, secession, which is also not a right of a democratic country... But well, let's start with clarity: we don't want that model, so we don't fool anyone. He says in his motion that the purpose of the consultation is to make Basque citizens of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa own their own future. This Basque citizenship to which you refer of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkioa exists thanks to a Statute of Gernika and a Constitution that you fought for many years, and better not to remember how and with what methods. Thanks to that, that society has long decided its future. And what you should do is listen to her from time to time, listen to what she says, and this allows me to advise the PNV as well. And stop competing to see who is more radical and consistent in their nationalism, and stop dizzying Basque society with their ultimate aspirations and goals, because we all have our own, but that's not how a society is built. Stop marking so many and draw paths and road maps in the air, and pay a little more attention to people's concerns. We have said this many times in this House, but let us repeat it again: the Socialists believe in self-government, deeply, as the best formula of progress and coexistence in Basque; a broad, dynamic self-government, adapted to the changes of Basque society and the world around us. And that's why, before they want to continue to mar us with initiatives that are worth these fights and for a little bit more, I will repeat it to them: for us the self-government that we defend is not an end in itself, it is an instrument, and we think that the most appropriate to carry out the ideals of justice, equality and sustainable development. And I don't think anyone can deny the advances of any kind that this society has had in these thirty-five years. You can't even deny them. And we are prepared to address, of course, the adjustments and reforms that are necessary in the light of experience, and in fact we have already put forward a proposal for constitutional reform in the federal sense, which, among other things, will help to channel and resolve imbalances that have occurred over time. But to make it clear, in case it wasn't enough, our goal is to deepen self-government, of course, but to live together better within Spain and within Europe, not to give satisfaction to the nationalists, neither to you nor to the PNV, nor to any other nationalism. That is not our model, nor will it ever be, because we think that self-government has to serve to make people live better, and to make them live better within Spain and within Europe, of course, right? There's no doubt about it. And, by the way, for that trip you want to make, don't count on us, either, if you think that self-government is a kind of pre-independence step, that "Agur Spain" that is heard in these lines and in these others and that puts so much on them. We've got other things on us. It makes us equal, moving forward together over difficulties, not raising borders, not digging trenches, neither national nor identity, nor of any kind. And for the first they will have our support, but, of course, to go in another direction, with other initiatives like this, of course with us they will not count on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u57	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing on the answers, Mr. Erriz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u58	Good afternoon. First of all, I want to thank Mr. Sémper and Mr. Pastor for their clarity. They spoke openly, and that's what we asked, and that's what we ought to be grateful for. I just want to remember that the content of the motion for the first time has been questioned by some things. We have mentioned that this Françoise appears in writing that the democratic agreement between the political forces which lie in this legislature must be the basis of the inquiry to the people. I'm just saying that's because that's a question on both sides. We're worried about something. Before the autonomical elections, PNV promised the election program that this is how it appears that in the year of 1911, the year of the year of the year of their election was being consulted in 1911 2015. And there won't be any consultations. So President Urkullu won't execute his election program. I think that's important to confirm. The electoral programme where it was said that there would be a consultation by 2015 is not going to be fulfilled, and our question is clear and concise: is it going to be in 2016? For our purpose is to ask the people, to ask them, to give them a word and a decision, for their future is true. And that's what we want to do, and it's completely democratic. We want the right to decide, yes. Queremos el derecho a decidir. And we want to make sure we want to decide everything. And you mention that this has nothing to do with other things, with people's concerns, with real, real concern. I'll say yes. We want a right to decide, for example, to determine and build a frame for the purposes of work. And that's what we want to do, too, so that those ladies don't need to apply the form of work that Madrid imposes on us. To do this we desire that this will always be better for the welfare of the Basques, which we seek. For social justice, you speak of self-requestioning as an instrument, we say complete self-determination. We want all sovereignty, all in order to be able to decide here, in Euskal Herria, above all that affects all Basques and all Basques. And now, I'm sure, he's come back to this discussion today. First of all, three and three with that, please, don't cheat. These three affirmative votes enabled, among other things, to be able to take Madrid away. The majority were in this drawing-room, where the whole majority was given in this very room. So, no excuse. From that point on, it's not our responsibility. And maybe there's a lot of talk about the future of President Ibarcheche's and we won't go in there either. Now we have proposed a proposition which is a starting-point for discussion, and which seems to you to know what we're doing. We've moved. And we do not admit that Ibarche Plan from top to bottom, we ought to discuss it, but we plan that it may be a proper beginning to make that discussion, to find that agreement. That's our honesty. That's our attitude. And you take it as a gravity as an assault. And even then, Mr. Egibar, I'll tell you frankly. For the first time, you didn't answer my questions, you didn't answer them. In the second place, the competition between us has come and will remain, that will be the case. Perhaps you've been very comfortable, because there's no competition, and from now on, there'll always be an election contest, because we're a real alternative. But you have to learn to live with it. And in my opinion, you've got too much pride. From this very day, even from this tribe, you have treated us with very little respect for our party and our people, as well as for the people we represent. And I'll tell you on that side too, you political representatives must try to draw the future. The historians tell the past, and you tend to spend the past more and more alone, like you do, but to tell the past, historians. And a political representative is to talk about the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ray. Misst, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u60	Thank you, President. Mr Egibar usually speaks in these veto debates, and there is no veto, Mr Egibar. We are not talking about any veto; we are talking about strict compliance with existing law and the use of perfectly established legal procedures to modify the laws that each political group, depending on its majority or minority, intends to carry out. It is not a veto; it is democracy itself, it is the lawfulness in force, and obviously in this case it is the Spanish Constitution. Indeed, it is up to us to repeat what we have been repeating for many years. Mr Semper spoke of noria, of dinosaurs, of the debates that are constantly repeated, and it is true, but, even if that is true, we have to go down to the rostrum to repeat the obvious. We are not talking about any veto, but we are talking about strict compliance with the current law, which we must all, without exception, comply with and respect. You and you talk about "I want", "I want", "I would like", "our proposal is this"... Yes, but it's that you have to realize one thing, that you still haven't realized it: it's that you are in a minority. You and you are in a minority. They are in the minority to modify the Spanish Constitution, (they are in the minority), which is what they intend with their permanent proposals: to modify the Spanish Constitution, to modify the model of State, etc., etc. And to carry out those reforms you are in a minority, and you have to assume that minority. It is not a veto, it is a matter of majorities and minorities. You nationalists have historically been very well treated, and have achieved great advantages of all kinds, but in any case, to carry out these reforms you are in a minority, just as I assume I am in a minority in this Parliament to try to amend the Historical Territories Act. We then discuss whether or not to reform the Historical Territories Act. The UPyD initiative may not come forward. I'll take it. I won't talk about the veto. I will say that I am in a minority, and that I have failed to convince a majority of parliamentarians to push this reform forward. We propose the abolition of the general councils of the historical territories or of the parliaments. We are in a minority, we have failed to convince a majority of parliamentarians to carry out those reforms. It's not a veto, it's that we're in a minority. And we want to carry out many reforms. We ourselves want to reform the Spanish Constitution itself in order to move towards a symmetrical and supportive federal state! We have not yet convinced a majority of citizens, or congressmen in the Congress of Deputies, to be able to achieve those objectives. But it's no veto, it's the rules of democracy. And, therefore, you have to accept that you are in a minority. And yes, we must repeat it permanently, even if it seems to us that it is a fairy tale, even if it seems that we always repeat the same arguments: strict compliance with the current legality. "An hour and a half, therefore, dedicated to the nationalist rifirmrafe," Mr. Semper came to say. Well, it's not that long either. Time and a half we can devote. Maybe we don't have much time, but hour and a half can be devoted. There's no bigger problem with that either. We dedicate an hour and a half to re-discussing the issues of nationalism, their quarrels, their family quarrels, their fratricidal wars, there is certainly no problem. There's no problem. Perhaps it is more serious that the Basque Nationalist Party does not finish concretely what it wants, which, by the way, some said that the Basque Nationalist Party does not concretely implement its proposal. I believe that what the Basque Nationalist Party wants is to continue living from the story of being a nationalist. That's my particular theory, I may be wrong, but I think that what he's mostly trying to do, rather than making a date for independence, what he wants most of all, because it's been very good for him, is to continue living from the nationalist tale. Because they have actually been doing very well for many years, and that's why they don't finish saying "We want independence on that date." In any case, as I said, although it is serious that the Basque Nationalist Party does not make its proposal concrete, I believe that the most serious of all is that we have a Basque government that does not solve the real problems of citizenship. Indeed, we can devote an hour and a half to talking about these issues, there is no problem (in fact, I like it, I have no problem and I am delighted to be able to do so), but the most serious of all is that we have a government that does not solve the real problems of citizenship: unemployment, unemployment, precariousness, poverty, inequality. This is really serious, and we should be talking about this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u61	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u62	Mr. Ariz said I didn't answer him. I think it's an answer to our full correction about the things you're talking about. Why our proposal does not deny a consultation. Now he restores the agreement. But what you say is, "No, I want the instrument," and you don't understand where you place a certain substance of the agreement. Why there has been a lot of discussions in this parliament, but there are not so many years, as in the year 2002, I still see where he was sitting at a company of the Ibarche, who said to him: "You come with a blank sheet, there are no contents behind the proposals of the Basque Nationalist Party. You'll bring frustrations." Today it is shown that Ibarretxe had no blank sheet, because then a whole project already deposited in this House was developed. And the one who does come with blank folio is Bildu. That is a political subject, and a right to decide, as we call it in the first place. Now, what is it that develops and takes place? And we know what we are counting, what are the others, and what are the differences and the oppositions. Well, I think at least a spirit was raised from different times. And though I had not been a just witness, I, for example, have thoughts made about Loyola paper or possible agreements, and the texts are at hand. And I think you two are. And then I know what one and the other said, which at least would have to be about this arrangement to make it possible for me to change things. I remember, maybe you've forgotten. You've even mentioned the future of the game in such a reaction that you haven't controlled the future of Ibarcheche. I have a question, are you going to take the Ibarche Project to work with you? Why it seems so. And if so, welcome, we'll see what's in it. But there's not only a plan, there's a project, a project with 69 articles. That's an exercise of the right to decide, a concrete exercise. And that's why we're so proud of our career. It's a matter of pride. But if we have a course, and it is a concrete political course, we shall see the proposals of one and the other in this form, we shall see what you bring or you will come with a white folio. Why do I remember so much about what we were at the previous job and what was in it? His left patriot didn't bring a piece of paper, he didn't even make a suggestion. and it is well to read, the total amendment of the temple of Arnuldo. Then he didn't even export a little in his joints. Nor the Social Party either. You want to know who they were? Arnuldo Ocera and Jesus at Eguigure. They came to the board with no papers. They were masters, they were above, to take steps which were necessary to give the two-sided strategy instead of the one-sided strategy. That's what they were doing. And the effort was welcome, even if he failed afterwards, because all his efforts were necessary at that time. But I want to be clear about one thing, to finish it. You've connected my political career with historians or history. Well, I had an article I could use, but I'll give it to you, I won't use it. In his day Jorge Oteiz wrote an article a week before celebrating the State's referendum: "0.HB." And he reasons that dede el lagato de vista revolioari lo que el todo o nada y qué unéticate revolioari. He deserves to read, to know where every one comes from, and what he's been doing. But we have often said, even in this campaign, that we are a people, to love a people, we must first become acquainted and respected. And to say that a people is loved, and not to respect the people, as has happened in many cases, does not agree, is impossible. It cannot be said that a people loves and that they do not defend the rights of the people. If we are in a new age and have to make this future among all of us, we must explain it to you, between all or some of us, how the majority, minority, are to be directed, we propose a formula without right...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u63	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u64	What we're saying is we're supposed to give this town's plans. Respecting the citizens, repairing their problems, and finally making this town master of itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u65	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u66	Thank you, Madam President. I trust I will not lose hope, Mr Egibar, or naivety, of seeing you someday in this rostrum say whether you want the independence of Euskadi or not. I trust you, at some point. Don't get upset, but it's just that, of course, the more we'd have to be mad at ourselves for having to endure their euphemisms and their twists all the time! Listen, you have used, in order not to respond to the truly important, you have used all your intervention, you have spoken to us and you have reminded us, as a grandfather onion, how Otegi and Ibarretxe were discussing, the roles of Loiola, the content of Plan Ibarretxe..., and you have even given us a decalogue on how to love a country. But of wast, of contents, nothing. Break the rearview mirror, Mr. Egibar! Break the rearview mirror, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party. Break it! Don't teach us how to love the country. What the hell is this? What an old man this is! Don't ever talk to us again about Ibarretxe and her sixty-six articles, and whether the covers were red or blue. Let us look to the future, that we are at an extraordinarily complicated time in the world. In a world that opens up, that widens, where all the countries around us are looking for how to be more competitive, how to be better, how to seek synergies and understanding between societies, between countries, between communities, here it turns out that the debate is the decalogue of how to love the country. Hey, and in this all the surgery, hey! And what Ibarretxe said, what Otegi said, and if the Ibarretxe plan... And it turns out that we are embarking on a parliamentary presentation where we supposedly have to analyze the development of self-government, in a first phase that has not yet finished; second phase, pooling diagnostics (we'll see what terminology is given to make it look more rumbling), and in a third phase, the proposed phase. And, of course, when with goodwill we support and approve the constitution of that paper, when with goodwill we attend the work of that paper, one sometimes has a bit of a fool's face seeing that they already have defined what the end of that paper is and what the document of that paper they are going to propose: the Ibarretxe Plan! Because Mr. Egibar asks the lords of Bildu if they're going to approve it. "Welcome be," he says. In this we are, with the rear-view mirror placed not on the sides: right in front. It is a rear-view mirror that does not prevent them from seeing anything more than them, when this society is much more plural, Mr Egibar. Look, the other day, you didn't attend, but in San Sebastián Minister De Guindos came to a forum, invited by a Basque media outlet. A business economic forum. There came about three hundred entrepreneurs, mainly Gipuzcoans, but from the whole of Euskadi. Entrepreneurs who will agree that something they do for this country, create jobs and these things; small entrepreneurs, medium-sized entrepreneurs and big entrepreneurs. And then there was a turn of speeches and questions. Do you know how many questions there were (overcrowder), do you know how many questions there were about the right to decide? Zero. [[Berber]] Do you know what were the questions that the business fabric of this country, one of the economic engines... Is that what you're talking about? You are very grateful, but do you know what were the questions and debates that took place between businessmen with the minister and with whom we were representing at least a part of Basque citizenship? Competitiveness, synergies, laws, how to be more competitive in the world, how to work better in a more complex world... And while you, you and you to your own, unfortunately it's not the Basques' thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u67	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u68	Well, Mr. Arraiz would bring out the Ibarretxe Plan, and Mr. Egibar would pick it up, pick up the glove with satisfaction ("Welcome Be," right?)). Well, we do not support the Ibarretxe Plan in its day, it is known, nor will we support it now either if that is going to be the conclusion to which they want to lead to the self-government presentation. But I would very much like to ask the lehendakari whether the lehendakari will also assume the Ibarretxe Plan as its own. I know you won't answer now, but we'll make it visible to you in this rostrum, because I'd really like to know if the lehendakari project that this country is leading is that old Ibarretxe plan project or something else. Because, in the light of Mr Egibar's words, it seems that he is still alive and kicking, and that to us sincerely worries us, because that is not the reason why we are participating in the self-government presentation. We are not going to end up in that presentation supporting the right to decide, it seems that that is clear to everyone. I repeat it again so that no one calls themselves deception. And then Mr. Arraiz was talking about something he called "full sovereignty." Yeah, but it's just, Mr. Arraiz, that doesn't exist. That doesn't exist. That is to say, Euskadi will never have full sovereignty over Spain, as Spain does not have full sovereignty over Europe, as Europe does not have full sovereignty over the global world. There are no full, total sovereigntys. That's an absolute understatement. And in any case sovereignty – the one that touches everyone, because here they are all shared sovereignty – is only to improve people's lives, not to give satisfaction to particular dreams. Because, with this drift you want to take us to, that which you and you sacrifice as called "the Basque people" can end up jumping through the air and becoming a divided and split community. And we have the very close example, the one you brought here from Catalonia, that dead end, which now neither Esquerra nor More know where you have to climb to get out of it. Because moreover, when you ask the people of this country, without interference, what are the problems that concern you – and I am not talking about the entrepreneurs to whom Mr Semper referred, I am talking about what the sociometer of the Basque Government said last month, last March – what people say spontaneously... For I will read it, because they say it in this order and with very decreasing magnitudes: one, problems linked to the labour market; two, economic problems; three, health, Osakidetza, social security, health; four, family; five, housing and evictions; six, education; seven, operation and coverage of public services and aids; eight, pensions; nine, corruption and fraud. In all cases problems in which the Basque Government and those institutions that you say have to devote the right to decide have very specific responsibilities to solve people's problems. And do you know where that appears that seems to you to be the most important thing that can happen in Euskadi? In position number 10, as a concern of 3% of the citizens surveyed. That is the true level of concern, of concerns, of real problems that people feel as their own, that this country has. And it's yours to teach, to party, to shake the flag, but it's not the problem that people feel like their own. I understand that you use it as an electoral slogan and that then you are counting it from rally to rally and square per square, but I am already more concerned than a government party like the PNV intends to follow the wave. That is why I insist on asking Lehendakari Urkullu whether the Ibarretxe Plan is his plan or is going to be, and whether that is going to be the conclusion of the self-government presentation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u69	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the original text of the EH Collect group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u70	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Misto-UPyD team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given are 75; the supporters are 11; the opponents are 64; white, 0; abstenations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u71	Misto integer correction not accepted. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Eubertarian patriot. (Berbost.) Okay, we'll vote for the first and second points. (The halt) We'll vote again. We can vote first and second points. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 48; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u72	So the first and second points are accepted. Next, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u73	So, since it's a draw, we vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u74	Since it's a draw, it'll stay at the next integer meeting. The eighth point has been abandoned for another purpose, and now the fourth point. Forth point on the theme list: "Modize, Gorka Maneiro Labayen Misto-UPyD members of the team, to reform the Eukacadian institutional structure until after the end of the Euska. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal, Mystata, Mr. Maneiro, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u75	Thank you, President. With this motion to defend what we propose, this Parliament urges the Basque Government to submit to the House before 30 September this year a draft reform of the Historical Territories Act with the following objectives: to eliminate the duplication, overlaps and inefficiencies that exist today in the Basque institutional framework; to be able to have more efficient and competitive institutions; to optimize the spending and equitable distribution of public resources; to rationalise, clarify and optimize the division of competition between the Basque Government and the outlaws, and all this in order, ultimately, to provide a better and more equal service to the whole of Basque society. With the second point, what we propose is that this Parliament urges the Basque Government to promote and defend all the legal initiatives and reforms that are necessary to unify Basque taxation and to set up a single tax system in Euskadi. Let us go on to say that this motion arises from an inquiry that basically posed to the Basque Government was a very specific question. The question was: What does the Basque Government intend to do by the end of the parliamentary term to update and modernise the Basque institutional framework? And the truth is, the government's answer was nothing. Not a single proposal to try to reform the Basque institutional framework. Beyond referring to the work of the paper on duplicity, the question was very specific: apart from the work being done by the parliamentary groups, what the Basque Government intended to do on this issue. Zero, you do not intend to take any steps to rationalize the Basque institutional framework. Not to propose the reform of the Historic Territories Act, but not any other reform to modernize us internally. And we do think that a number of measures must be taken to reform that framework, including the reform of the LTH, which we are putting forward today through this motion. We continue to think that it is not reasonable, moreover, that it is absurd that an Autonomous Community such as Euskadi, of just 2 million inhabitants and 7,200 square kilometres, has four parliaments, four governments, three estates, three fiscal policies and 251 municipalities, in addition to all the bodies dependent on the different administrations and various bodies that exist because there is this crazy framework, such as the Tax Coordination Body, the Basque Finance Council or the newly created Commission to combat fraud. I will omit what is the complete proposal or the overall UPyD proposal to modernize the old country we live in, and I will focus on the proposal that we are bringing to the debate today. In our view, the well-directed reform of the LTH would help to put order in that crazy framework. It would not be enough to achieve all our objectives, it is not all that we think this Parliament and this government should do, but we do think that the reform of the LTH would help solve a few problems. The 21st century Euskadi cannot live anchored in past history, and obviously there cannot be sacred laws. The reform of the LTH should be joined by other measures and reforms, but this, without being the panacea that could solve all our evils, we do think that it is essential and unreplaceable. We believe that the reform of the law of Historical lands is indispensable, and that is why we have brought the discussion back to the Basque Act. This reform must seek some purposes: the division between the government and the diputations which exist at the present day was renewed and enlightened, the differences between the people either diminished or colonized by the differences of commerce, the expense which is unnecessary, the establishment of more public services to the Basque Basques. Obviously, this is not the first time we have raised this measure, the reform of the Historical Territories Act. We raised it in the last parliamentary term without success. For one reason or another, the rest of the parliamentary groups either voted against the specific UPyD initiative, or agreed on a number of groups to launch a paper on duplicities to analyse this framework and the possible duplicities and inefficiencies that exist. But the truth is that we have not been successful, and we have found ourselves alone in the proposal of the Historical Territories Act. We presented it, we defended it in the past legislature, and also in this one. We have put questions, interpellations, presentations. Finally, we will see whether or not in this case there is a parliamentary majority asking the Government to bring this reform project. According to the previous Basque Government's report, the complex Basque institutional framework generates bureaucratic discomfort and inequality among citizens, leads to overlapping skills and leads to duplication in the management of many public policies. According to that study, such inefficiencies and duplication would mean at least EUR 403 million per year. That report, but above all, in my opinion, the accumulated experience of all these years, confirms that this framework is a nonsense in its current configuration, and that it is urgent to reform it thoroughly, not only to reduce the immense administrative costs it causes, but also and above all to modify and clarify the division of competences, and to proceed to eliminate or resize those institutions that prove unnecessary. It is our duty as public officials to try to push through all the reforms that are necessary to achieve the best possible institutional structure, the one that is most effective, that best serves citizens, that best facilitates the provision of more and better public services, the most viable, the most reasonable, the most sustainable, the most egalitarian and the most just, the one that avoids, or at least does not encourage, competition conflicts between administrations for free. It is therefore a question of rationalising and modernising our institutional architecture; rationalising, modifying and clarifying the division of powers between the Member States and the Government; and ensuring the maximum possible equality in both the provision of services and the payment of taxes. In order to complete this proposition, we propose what is received at the second point, that is, to defend the only prosecution, to unite the foru-gain, to lead the prosecutor's jurisdictions to the Basque Act, and acquire the prosecutor's equality. As I say, in order to complete this proposal we propose with the second point to ask the Government to push and defend all the initiatives and legal reforms that are necessary to unify taxation in Euskadi; to achieve a single tax system in Euskadi; to get citizens to pay basically the same taxes, regardless of where we live; so that fiscal powers cease to reside on the general boards of the historic territories; so that this Parliament not only has a voice, but also votes on the taxation that applies to the whole of Basque society. Most Basque economists support this proposal. More and more political and social actors are supporting this proposal. There are more and more voices saying that all these reforms must actually be carried out. The Euskadi of the 21st century cannot depend fundamentally on our past history. There are no sacred laws; there is nothing worse than knowing that one thing can be improved, and still hold on to one another. We need to move from presentations to facts, we need to move from rhetoric to concrete actions, we need to move from words to indispensable legal reforms, which cannot and should not be postponed. Hence our motion. We have not reached any kind of compromise with any group; therefore, it is up to us to defend, and that is what I have done, this UPyD proposal and ask for the vote of the other groups for their support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u76	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, representing the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u77	Thank you, President. Good morning, Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Group's amendment to the UPyD proposal states that the Basque Parliament reiterates the need to urgently undertake the reform of the Historical Territories Act, so that its adoption will take place before 31 December this year. And we do so because Euskadi, because of its dimensions, has a special need to establish an agile institutional system, which is not a remorse for the development of society; an efficient institutional system, which does not disproportionately consume the resources necessary for the well-being and development of Basque society, which avoids duplication and overlaps and which, being more effective, provides more and better services to citizens. And the Socialists are going to do everything possible to make this reform work, with minimum bases for the agreement between different and with the clear will to make a country fairer and more egalitarian, more modern, more efficient and more competitive. And also a country that guarantees public services and quality of life. That is the public commitment that the Socialists have made, and that is one of the axes of action that we have marked ourselves to put this country in the twenty-first century. I have no doubt that this debate is going to take place in this House; another thing is that it is going to take place at the initiative of the government. Because we would already like, Mr Maneiro, but, listening to the answer that Councilman Erkoreka gave two weeks ago to his question, I did not appreciate much of the willingness in the matter, and after seeing the amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party that is before us today, and that was the presentation of a draft reform to – literally – "before the end of this parliamentary term", and also the fact that the Basque Nationalist Party has forgotten the compromise signed with the Socialists in September 2013, also signed by the Basque Government and the Lehendakari (they have forgotten that compromise, and the Government has not even included this draft reform in the legislative timetable that it presented to us two months ago, the updated timetable), because, finally, what they want me to say to them. Well, white and bottled. And, since the socialists do not surprise us with the attitude of the nationalists, we are working on an articulated proposal to reform the Historical Territories Act and we are contrasting it in different sectors to give more solidity and coherence to this project, continuing with the work that we have already begun a few years ago. Because it was we – I have to remember, but it was us – who put this issue on the parliamentary carpet the past parliamentary term, with the report on duplicity, and because we also specifically picked up that commitment on our electoral agenda for the autonomous elections. And because we also expressly include this issue, the Historical Territories Act, as I said before, in the commitment that we signed by the Socialist Party of Euskadi/Euskadiko Ezkerra with the Basque Nationalist Party and that signed the lehendakari itself in September 2013. So we haven't left zero. In the past legislature, serious and rigorous work was carried out, as Mr Maneiro said before, who identified with the help of experts nine areas where organizational duplication and overlaps occur, as well as budget duplication and overlaps, as a result of the malfunctioning of our institutional structure. And that report assessed the cost – also mentioned here – of the inefficiencies detected at EUR 403 million per year. In the commission of study then created, about thirty experts and representatives of all institutional levels of all political parties agreed, except the deputy general of Bizkaia, on the need to complete our self-government inwards, on the basis of the Municipal Law and the reform of the Historical Territories Law. That is why in December 2012 the Basque Socialists proposed in a non-legislative proposal to complete those works, draw conclusions and address as many legal reforms as necessary. At that time my group coincided with you, Mr Maneiro, but, as neither UPyD nor the sixteen socialist parliamentarians added the necessary majority, we had to reach the possible agreement to create a paper to analyse the institutional framework and proceed to its adequacy. All this time we have met with a report from the Urkullu government which is rather a counter-report, because it is ideologically aimed at denying that there are organizational and spending duplications. Moreover, that report does not bother to make a minimum analysis of the expenditure structure of our institutions. Fifteen more have passed, some have even repeated intervention, to finish the presentation with conclusions that the socialists understand partial and negationist, with which we radically disagree, and so we will make it known. That is why the Basque Socialists can state that after the summer we will present in this House a proposal for a law that will make possible the debate on the reform of the Historical Territories Act. Look, Mr Maneiro, you know perfectly well that my party has made this matter one of the priorities of your work, and I am not going to reproach you for presenting the inquiry the day after the announcement by the Secretary-General of the Basque Socialists, Idoia Mendia, about his willingness to bring this proposal for reform of the Historical Territories Act to this Parliament, given that the Government was not fulfilling its commitment to do so, but I do say that our amendment seeks, in line with what has been said and done so far, a statement from Parliament on the need to urgently undertake that reform of the law. So we do not raise any more time limit than we already had with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Government, even though they have both failed to speak. And I would also like to make it clear that the Socialists are not going to question the institutional diversity or the management powers of the territories, which is a matter on which we do not agree with UPyD. Nor have we been able to reach an agreement with Bildu, given a position in which radicalism has prevailed in the approach and the partisan and sovereignist interests over the general interest, to obtain a majority to initiate the debate. We maintain our position, which we also consider to be a coherent position, and this reform we are proposing is not a free fixation of the Socialists, but we believe it is a clear need. It is shown that the internal institutional structure that the Basque Nationalist Party launched almost alone, in addition to not being functional for a country of 7,000 square kilometres and just over 2,100,000 inhabitants, is a costly proposal and produces territorial inequalities. The issue at stake with today's debate on the reform of the Historical Territories Act is the full and effective equality of Basques and Basques above the territories; the efficiency of the services paid with their taxes; and the sustainability, ultimately, of our self-government. This revision of the Historical Territories Act, which is so stubbornly opposed to by those who have no problem in opening up on a channel such basic consensus as those of the Constitution and the Statute, would have on the lives of citizens and on the services that receive far more notorious and positive effects than those that would result from the vacuum jump that has been proposed to us at the point that we have seen before in this plenary. The Socialists want to thoroughly review our autonomy in order to put it at the service of the citizens. We are three territories and one country, and we must function as one country, with equal standards and public services for all Basque citizens. The territory of residence cannot be the reason for differences in rights or services. This reform should make clear the equal rights of all Basque citizens above territoriality, as well as the criterion of subsidiarity upwards and downwards. Because it cannot be that a fisherman from Ondarroa who has a post in Donosti, because she is Vizcaine, has to pay three hundred euros a month in the toll of the A-8, and instead, if she were Gipuzcoana, she would have to pay only twenty-five euros. Because it cannot be that there are three public companies managing motorways with their different tariff policies, depending on the territoriality. Because we also have two hundred and fifty agents related to entrepreneurship and employment in Euskadi, in addition to Lanbide (we have public, semi-public, private...). In addition, there are twenty different bodies in Euskadi to develop environmental policies, there are seventeen entities and public societies dedicated to the purchase of land and the promotion of housing, and so on. That is why the Basque Socialists are committed to the reform of the Historical Territories Act, because Euskadi is a community with a complex institutional framework, with a not always well-defined allocation of competences, and with a distribution of resources that does not conform to the competences assigned to the administrations. And because they must also serve services, and they must have the right resources, depending on the skills they have. A system, as I said, that's complex. An ageing system, which has led to over thirty-five years of autonomous status, inefficiencies, overlaps and duplications: EUR 403 million per year. The Basque Socialists want a reform of the Historical Territories Act in order to articulate an institutional organization that will enable Euskadi to face the present challenges and the challenges of the future in the most appropriate way, and that responds adequately to the peculiar characteristics of this country. That is why the proposal made by the Socialists to improve our self-government inwards is a proposal of equality and modernity, a proposal to make a country, Euskadi, sustainable, which without such reforms runs the risk of not being so. And today, whatever the outcome of the vote, there has undoubtedly been a turning point in the debate on the reform of the Historical Territories Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u79	Good morning, everyone. This is the time when Mr. Maneiro, in relation to the law of the Hiestric Lands, has given us a proposition which he has often brought to this legislature. We have proposed to this proposal the full correction of a principal reason: because we have a different view of the nature and function of the institutions we have in this country. We, the Biscay, the Gipu and the Araba, because we have a vision for the entire Basque Country. That each reality is different, and therefore must be considered as its own means, but that all the members of the community will always be free and able to determine the possession of all our social rights, they will be the means of agreeing with each other. We have made a political offer to the public and to all the euscal and to all the eupscal agents who will have the right of determining the right of determining from the United States. And to bring this process forward, all the established institutions will be needed today. We must begin with the authorry, driven by the social majority, by political and institutions, and this legislature has a choice and has a power to claim it. Mr. Maneiro says in his proposal that he thinks it his last aim to confer a more equal service on the people. He has nothing to do with the next institutional rank, which belongs to the rank of state, because, as he has heard of several other disputes in this legislature, he wishes to lead them to that level, always using efficiency and optimism as argument, of course, with several jurisdictions and institutions. This, as it is plain, is in a quite contrary direction to the independence of our people, and therefore in a contrary direction opposed to the position of our party. We believe that these institutions which we ought to be in the service of society ought to be in favor of the efficient process, which will have the will of the people on the axis, by stepping forward over the dependence of the States. One of the key keys to the organizational process which the Basque Country has to be made for the Collector, must be to remake the structure, as well as autonomical, and to strengthen the efficiency of the existing institutions, to make these institutions the foundation and motive of self-destruction. We believe that all the changes of laws to be made to go on this way, without a loaded ceiling, and that's what we're asking you to do in our proposition. Some of the institutions of the present day have been a sign of the political will which our people have to govern themselves, and which, considering the necessity of renewing these institutions, we believe to be more manifest than ever in the structures of this people, in order to strengthen and make public services more efficient, in short, for all the members of the community. We must place these institutions really in favour of the structure of the people, which is the only means of being independent of the Basque People independent of independent citizens. We have seen in recent years that the Spanish State remains exhausted without fulfilling the state, although it has been a law that has been established for 35 years, and the crisis has been exploited by a worse situation. The State of Spain has placed so many and so many enterprises in every department, and has lost all respect for our people and our institutions. Of course the state of the North is much more serious. We know that in the Spanish State, besides the financial crisis, there is a political and institutional crisis, and that therefore the proposals to renew the structure of the state are being published. We know also that they enter into these propositions, or introduce many changes of structure to be made in our fellow-citizens. The reform of the Spanish State and its Constitution is not our starting-point, but we know it will affect us and our people. Hence it is plain, that we need our present institutions for the structures of our country, and these institutions must be effective in preventing all manner of dysfunctions. So they propose to collect the Basque People: encourage changes of law to strengthen the efficiency of the organization and prevent the dysfunctions? Yeah. Even the Law of Historical Lands? Yeah. But always these institutions, the will of the people being a axis, were favorable to the mode of process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mrs. Otdui, Eubertarian, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good noon to all of you. If in the prizes which the journalists distribute a new fashion to the most obstinate parliamentary, I have no doubt, Mr. Maniro, that the prize would be yours. I don't know how many times you bring a discussion about changing the law of the Himistic Lands, but you always want to be this discussion with the elections. Yes, I must tell you that in the legislation before you were much more generous with the Government, and I will explain. You gave it a longer time to bring a change of the Law of the Histric Lands to Parliament, to give him a dues from February to September, and now to September. Besides, seeing that summer lies between us and that the regulations of a general nature ought to be observed by the Government, what you require, Mr. Maniro, you know that it is impossible for us to do things well. For the law of 8/2003 regulates the procedure of making general regulations, as well as of regulating rules, as of prefacements. And as I say, it's impossible to fill up all the tramites that you've arranged for that time, from order to start the procedure, to the judgement of the Basque Juridical Council, and suppose that the crew agrees or does get the consequences before this meeting is over, what you're asking for would be impossible for you to do in three months. In this debate on changing the law of Historic Lands, we can identify two maximistic positions. On the one hand, those who maintain, or defend, that the law ought not to be touched at all, and, ladies and gentlemen, you will already know, that this is not the thesis or attitude of the Jesuit. And on the other hand, to change the Law of Historic Lands, to make him equal to the embalming of Firabras, that is to say, to have the same End, to change the Law, and not to give an answer to the necessities of our people. That is, the modification of the LTH ceases to be a means to become itself in an end. And for the umpteenth time I'm going to try to explain myself, so that they understand once and for all that the PNV doesn't sanctify the LTH. The Lehendakari Urkullu has already said clearly, that reviewing the LTH is not anathema to the PNV. And we are ready to address all the legislative reforms that are necessary to make our institutional system still valid to respond to the needs of the twenty-first century society and to do so in an effective and rational manner. And that means that, if Parliament concludes that there is a need to make ad hoc amendments to the LTH with regard to policies in which it is observed that the competition distribution and the envisaged model of interaction have been exceeded, the legal changes to be made will have to be made. And you will have realized that this is literally reflected in the draft of the proposal that has been drawn up, of the committee's proposal. Let us remember once again that the LTH is an expressly open rule for reforms, and that its explanatory statement explicitly excludes inflexible or rigid approaches that could be inadequate due to the country's own social, economic and political evolution, and alludes unequivocally to the possibility of a possible redistribution of competences that would make it advisable for better service to citizens. And, in fact, as has been recalled on numerous occasions, it has been modified on many occasions. The Arbitral Commission, in its decision 5/2003 of 3 November 2003, held that, for the sake of legal certainty, its amendment should not be carried out through implicit derogations, but through rules with a law rank, direct and express and well-founded. And the modifications that have to be made will have to be made when I touch them. And that's not just the PNV, that was also said by Mr. Pastor in this very rostrum in 2011. And Mr. Pastor also told us that things must be done rationally, quietly, calmly, because the laws said that they cannot be done by a decree of the fifty plus one. I, when I saw Mr Maneiro's initiative and some of the amendments, came to think that some chapter had caused me to lose myself between diapers and bottles, because I understood that we were working on the paper to arrive at a series of conclusions and try to weave among all the broadest and plural agreement. And, contrasted with my colleagues in what situation we are in right now, I say that I have not lost anything, because Mr Arieta-Araunabeño, after carrying out the difficult task of drawing up the draft report of the paper, made it available to the groups at the end of February, and it was the very paper that requested the extension of the deadline so that the groups could present our contributions or conclusions to that draft. I think I remember that in connection with this debate on more than one occasion we have heard some spokesman say that we do not have to start the house on the roof, and the feeling that I now have is that we have the finished house, that we lack the habitability license, and we are in a hurry and we want to move in. And I would ask, or we would ask, the same calm and the same tranquility to which Mr. Pastor referred. Why? Because we still do not know what the conclusions of the paper are, and neither can we escape that we still lack a law that is key to closing our institutional architecture. And I am referring, in fact, to municipal law. The need to have a municipal law before addressing the reform of the LTH also shared it a couple of years ago from the Socialist Group, also shared it by Maneiro himself, and I think I remember that it was also shared by the People's Party. Without knowing what the municipal law we pass in this Parliament will be, therefore, I find it very difficult for the Basque Government to guess how the municipal law will be amended by the LTH, because the updating of the LTH will have to be undertaken in order to integrate the jurisdictional amendment established by the municipal law currently under way. Isn't it more rational and not more efficient to fit all these puzzle pieces through a logical sequence over time? And that is why we had tabled the amendment you know. But I think Mrs. Corcuera has forgotten the part of this correction, because she's a good woman and I know she doesn't want to cheat. He added also, that the consequences of the alteration of the law ought to be taken notice of, that is, of the power of making a change of the law. And I didn't hear you say that, Mrs. Corcuera, when you were talking about our corrections. You say yes with your head, that's what I understand. And yes, I know, Mrs. Corcuera, which says the agreement we signed between the two parties. And the agreement says textually that "the debate and approval of the modification/updating will take place before 31 December 2015", but in a straight line (in a straight line) it is also said that "for the full coherence of the institutional system, its presentation and debate will have to be carried out before the parliamentary presentation already constituted, a paper that will ensure or take the initiative to ensure that the processing of this project has sufficient agility". That is, that the conclusions of the paper must be taken into account, and that it will be the paper that takes the initiative. And I think I remember that it was the presentation itself that called for the extension of the deadline. Then I would ask you a question: and whether you would prefer the execution of the time, or the attainment of the greatest harmony in the effects of this ponciency. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u82	Thank you, Miss Otadui. Passing over the uncorrected teams, Mr. Sémper is the representative of the Basque Potional Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u83	Mila esker, andrea president. Counselor. Ladies and gentlemen. Who at this stage can disagree on the need to implement a policy of austerity, a policy of simplification in administrative procedures or in the institutional framework, a policy of transparency? Who at this point can disagree on the need to further deepen good governance policies in public administrations? We'll probably all meet there. An administration-a competition has been and is – and I say it in case anyone believes otherwise, in case someone is interested in it – it has been and is the political position that we defend. Mr Manerio, our Autonomous Community has many peculiarities (that does not mean that it is good; there are peculiarities that are good and others that are bad, but it has many peculiarities), but it has one, from an institutional or political point of view, it has one that does not exist anywhere else in the world, that does not even have federal structures: it is the outland haciendas. We have them in Spain, and it is the Spanish institutional model, supported by the Spanish Constitution, which also corresponds to our history; it has a journey, a historical story that reaches us today. But at the same time, being one of the brands or one of our historical characteristics, we believe that our institutional framework, the Basque one, which some today question, really responds to a modern framework, to an institutional framework decentralized politically and administratively, where political responsibility is also shared (not only administrative but political responsibility). That this institutional framework has created any problems? Yeah. That this institutional framework has generated, in these almost forty years of development (I mean the last part of democratic development), has generated some inefficiency? Also, it's true. There are inefficiencies that need to be corrected, of course, as happens everywhere. Our position, Mr Maneiro, is: to correct deficiencies, to improve what does not work. The problem is not the tool, but the need to modernize the use of that tool. We believe in the Europe of political integration, we believe in the state of autonomy, in a decentralized Spain administratively and politically; we believe in the political collaboration of the different autonomous communities in the governance of Spain – and for that we would also need other reforms – and we believe that a decentralized Spain politically and administratively is not equivalent to waste, as some defend, is not necessarily equivalent to the bad government, which is typical of policies that are poorly focused. In other words, the fact that there are bad governments, or that the tool is misused, does not mean that institutional design does not work. And it is true, it has been recalled here, that there is a committee, there is a paper on duplication and inefficiencies that has not yet finished its work, and what we are asking is that its work be completed, that conclusions be drawn, and that we can discuss and take decisions on them. Don't put the car in before the oxen. We believe in a Spain and an inclusive Euskadi, as integrating entities of its diversity, from its plurality. Because, just as we believe in respect for the diversity of Spain, in Spain we also believe in respect for the diversity of Euskadi, to diversity in Euskadi. We defend, therefore, the coexistence between different models, where, of course, they fit, the outlaws, and logically the outlaws, as they have fit in our history. I insist, in constant modernization, in constant evolution, in constant improvement, as providers and – in the end it is what they are, tools providers – of an efficient and professional public service. As has also been discussed in the above-mentioned presentation, the three famous areas of cooperation, coordination and collaboration. Therefore, we want an Euskadi that works, and this is probably a common space in which we can all agree, we want politicians to be responsible for the budgets they use and manage; we believe in Euskadi and transparency, and in simplified and efficient public administrations. But what you propose, Mr Maneiro, no, we do not share. Because, I insist, the problem is not the tools, Mr Maneiro, but the use that is made of the tools. Look, the Alavese, the Gipuzcoans and the Vizcains came to a pact between us, which he gave, which politically set up the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. Your proposal, Mr Maneiro, not only loads that pact between Vizcays, Alaves and Gipuzcoans, but also loads that pact between Vizcays, Gipuzcoans and Alaves with the rest of Spain. His Basque neocentricism, Mr Maneiro, is to give wings to those who want to break Spain and to those who want to separate Euskadi from the rest of Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u84	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing on the answering round Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u85	Yes, thank you. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the second point of our initiative, on which no one has taken a stand, perhaps because they prefer not to discuss the issue. But our second point does not speak of the reform of the LTH. The first one is. The second point that you are talking about is the unification of the outlying estates, what you are defending is the unification of taxation in Euskadi, what you are talking about is a single tax system in Euskadi, what you are proposing is the defence of a principle that you are all putting forward on other occasions, or some of you are putting forward on other occasions. That is to say, it seems to me that it is absolutely contradictory to defend a single taxation for the whole of Europe and yet to defend within Spain five different taxations, or within Euskadi three different taxations. This seems to us to be racist conservatism, which clearly harms the interests of the citizens. Immobilism, therefore, refuses to push through all the necessary reforms in order to modernize ourselves internally and to be able to have the really necessary institutions. Conservatism, in short, of which you have again shown. In relation to some of the speeches made, I liked the speech made by Mrs Corcuera. I share the principles that you have defended. I share them, I basically agree. I would only ask him to do an exercise: to defend, those same principles of equality within the Basque Country, those same principles for Spain as a whole. I think it would be very interesting to defend a single taxation not only in Euskadi, but in Spain as a whole; to defend equal rights and obligations not only in Euskadi, but in Spain as a whole. It would be very interesting for you to do that exercise, because if you did, you would come to the same conclusion as a server, or similar conclusions at least. I do not share it at all, because I also believe that you know it perfectly well, that you say that it was the Socialist Group or the Socialist Party that pushed this debate. This debate has driven UPyD since 2009, in absolute solitude. Right here we put to Mr. Lopez the reform of the Historical Territories Act, and Mr. Lopez literally told me that "you can't start the house on the roof." What do you know now that you didn't know six or seven years ago? We have the same frame, we have the same doubles, we have the same inefficiencies. What each of the groups has been doing has been to permanently postpone the debate, first with the no, with the permanent refusal, and then with the creation of papers that did not try to solve the problems. Papers, what are they worth? Sometimes they are only worth one thing: to postpone the necessary reforms. And the position of the spokesman of the Nationalist Group is similar. In the end what we are told is "No, not yet","the work of the paper", "we must continue to reflect", "the Law of Historical Territories has already been partially reformed on countless occasions"... No, no, No, no, Very partially, in very minor matters. This goes much further, this raises a number of very specific objectives: to reduce duplication, to reduce inefficiencies, to guarantee equality for citizens. All of this is what we have been proposing, and to all of this you have all been permanently denying yourself during all these years. This is the reality. I do not know what the specific agreement reached by the Socialist Group or the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party is, I do not know what that agreement is. What I am asking is for this Parliament to require the Basque Government to bring forward a draft reform of the Historical Territories Act, so that from there we can all debate together and through amendments make possible the best possible Historical Territories Act. This is what we believe. The presentation of the previous legislature carried out its work, the presentation of this legislature has been carrying out its work, the positions of the political parties are clear, I do not think anyone has changed their opinion, and, therefore, what can not be accepted is that, because there is a living presentation, in the end, the others have to stand still without seeking to promote any change. Finally, we proposed to Mrs Corcuera a compromise. It has not been possible, the Socialist Group does not want to urge the Basque Government to do anything. All he wants is for this Parliament to stand in favour of the need to reform the Historical Territories Act. We shall vote in favour of the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group. We shall vote in favour. Indeed, the Historical Territories Act needs to be reformed. In any case, Mr. Semper, I wrote a few years ago, three or four years ago, an article that I don't know if you read – surely not – whose title was very interesting, the title was "It's the system, stupid." And I didn't mean anyone in particular, but it is that the problem of Euskadi is the Basque institutional framework, which is absolutely unusual anywhere in the world. There's no such thing as that. Therefore, in this case the problem is the institutional framework, the problem is that we have four governments...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u86	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u87	... four parliaments, three haciendas, three fiscal policies, 251 municipalities, or dozens of public enterprises. The problem, therefore, is the framework, which you do not want to change. Finally, I hope that we can move forward with this vote, and in any case, if it does not move forward, we expect the Socialist Group's proposal to be able to discuss it in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u88	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Corcuera, the Basque Socialist, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u89	Yes, thank you, President. Let us see, ladies and gentlemen, Euskadi has taken a course that did not pursue the Historical Territories Act in its explanatory statement, and that is why we must articulate, clarify and define the competences and funding in the areas in which the historical territories and the common institutions compete. And at the same time we also have to articulate the reform properly in the municipalities, of course, Mrs Otadui. The Socialists want to reserve to the municipalities a central institutional role, as the basis of the entire institutional system, as the primary institution of social life, overcoming the subordination to Parliament, the Basque Government and the historical territories; a subordination that has also prevailed since the creation of this Basque Autonomous Community. It is all right, Mrs Otadui, because the debates are overlapping, that of municipal law and that of the historical territories. It's absolutely nothing. On the contrary, it will enrich the debate much more. For the socialists, therefore, the reform of the Historical Territories Act must clarify the functions and powers of the historical territories, order the powers to regulate taxes properly. That is to say, to standardise once again the exercise of the harmonisation powers that Parliament has, and to regulate the internal distribution of resources, of the so-called internal quota, how to distribute those taxes integrated into the economic concert. Of course! That is the task of the Historic Territories Act. And that is why the Basque Socialists have committed themselves and are working on a proposal that reviews how the institutional framework works, how we make the instruments we count effective, how we modernise this country and update it, how we make Euskadi more fair and equal, more efficient and more competitive, how we guarantee public services and the quality of life of all Basques and Basques. Because for the Basque socialists it is not defendable that, by virtue of the fact that we do not know what untouchable essences, who have the same rights of Basque citizenship, by virtue of our Basque citizenship we receive services of different quality and of different cost depending on whether we are residents of Álava, Gipuzkoa or Bizkaia. No one understands that. Ladies and gentlemen who are Basque citizens do not understand why they have to be different because they reside in one or another territory. The Basque Socialists really believe that we can win this legislature to reform the Historical Territories Act and address two fundamental issues: the division of powers, and the participation of the Basque Parliament in the distribution of resources. We want a reform of the Historical Territories Act that comes with a minimum basis for agreement between different, with an open proposal, not closed, because we seek consensus, the majority. That is why, as Idoia Mendia has publicly stated, we will be presenting a concrete proposal after the summer, as I say to you openly, that this Parliament will be able to debate and agree. The internal institutional reform of Euskadi must aim at a more balanced and reasonable articulation between the Basque Parliament, the Basque Government and the historical territories, because, we do not forget, to make a country is to legitimize its institutions, and to seek a clear legal framework is our obligation at least as political leaders. Look, Mrs. Otadui said that she had also been lost in some disquisition. I tell you, Mrs Otadui, in your amendment you have absolutely forgotten what agreement we have reached between the Basque Socialist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government. They've forgotten. It's not a matter of the paper... And, of course, you don't cheat on me, or you don't cheat on me, because you read me the deal and, of course, you're missing the last sentence, right? Because it says: "...the parliamentary presentation constituted, a presentation that will ensure and/or take the initiative so that the processing of this project will have sufficient agility, so that its final approval will be in accordance with the time limit set out above" (31 December 2015). Read it to the end. Read it to the end, eh! I also know that you are a person who tends to read and be loyal, but, anyway, don't cheat on me. And then I regret that Bildu left for that sovereign and constituent debate, because he really said so too..., he was talking about the need to reform his candidate for deputy general by Gipuzkoa, saying that this law was obsolete, that it did not solve the problems that the historical territories had, and today they have gone on other paths. Well, well, it's his strategy. But our interest, the interest of the Basque Socialists in this reform, is not due to a political calculation, as some jeltzale has come to say or as some spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party has expressed in the media. Our interest is due to the scant interest shown by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government in carrying out a reform, even for fear of awakening the inner ghosts of that jeltzale formation. But this is not a matter for socialists, and yet the reform of the Historical Territories Act is a matter for all Basques and all Basques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u91	In this second round Mr Maneiro has already taught us the patita of what its true end is with this modification, which I had said in my first speech. He's grateful from time to time. Mrs Corcuera, radicalism in the approach of EH Bildu. Political radicalism: "A combination of ideas and doctrines of those who at certain times in social life intend to reform the political or scientific or moral order or even religious in whole or in part". Yeah. Of course I do! I don't know where the problem is. "Democratic radicalism advocated universal suffrage and the parliamentary republic as a form of government." I don't think you have any problem with any of those definitions of radicalism. I personally don't, and my group assure you neither. You insist, and you also talk to me about partyism. I do not know where you have seen partisanship in a proposal by this group that institutions have to be country vertebrates, and that we believe that the institutions of this country need reform. If that's partisan, you'll know. You insist, I liked it, because normally I have another kind of debate where on many occasions your party I have to tell you that you will know what you signed in 2013 with the Basque Nationalist Party, because if it's not for one thing it's for another, and you bring back here that you haven't done, that you have done, that you have done but it's not what we wanted... Learn more about what you signed with the Basque Nationalist Party, but don't take responsibility for it. That's their responsibility, and that's what you signed with them. And today this debate is true that Mr Maneiro has brought it and it is his initiative, but you are already announcing that after the summer they will bring a bill. I therefore do not know very well what the object of your amendment is. The sustainability of self-government; a self-government for you, you have said, three territories and one country. Me, let me, because we have confidence so that we can... I hope you'll let me. Three territories, an autonomous community, and a country that's not mine, that's for sure. And the sustainability of self-government. Perhaps you..., I am sure that you defend the sustainability of a self-government, of the self-government of the Basque Autonomous Community within a federal Spain, which is the system you defend. It's not mine and it's not EH Bildu's.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Ottadui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u93	Thank you again, Mrs. President. At this second turn all my doubts have been cleared up, and they have confirmed what I conjectured: That this is a race, is proposed as a race between Mr. Maniro and the Social Party. Here, as has been said, Maniro has always been, and always insists on this subject, but when he has seen what intention the Socialist Party has, and what its witness is, he will be deprived of by the legal proposition, forced to present the interpelration, and present the motion to you, Mr. Maneirro, to be the witness you have in your hands. And then you told Mrs. Corcuera, you've qualified it as a partial and negolioistic report presented by President Urkullu. If I'm not mistaken, we've had at least a month and a half-month's dues, to draw conclusions, and the Socialist Group has had the same chance, and I don't know any contributions at all. In the media we know a proposition from the point of view. And further, we must not forget, it is said, that the leadership belongs in this case to ponciency, and that, being perfect, it has demanded that it should prolong its time. Besides, I don't want to think how confused it would be if you sent her here without considering the effects of law-proposation, you'd say that the Parliament is stealing away from her. And as a conclusion, our team, as you know, puts our system of organization to value, is that it has hitherto been useful, and is now known to us. To give an adequate answer to the wants which the society of the century possesses. And I am certain that we make one in this end, and shall repeat again, that there is no essence in us that cannot be touched. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u94	Thank you, Miss Otadui. In conclusion, Mr. Sémper, representing the American Basque Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Maneiro, I'll look for you. I have a special file to your name in my house which is called "Maneiro archive", and besides you have given yourself quite a pomp saying that it is interesting what you write, with which I'm sure it is. But I don't think you understand the forality, Mr. Maneiro, I really don't think you understand it. I think you have a series of conceptual, non-political, confusions. It's not a matter of discrepancy, it's a matter of lack of understanding, but nothing happens. But there is something else we should understand, seeing the debate or listening to the debate that we have had the opportunity to hear today: it is really complex to modify the LTH, because here the intentions are completely different. But you don't want to reform the LTH, you want to load the forality. You want to load the forality. And there is a new majority, made up of the Socialist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and UPyD, which also wants to reform and subtract, to subtract power from the outside bodies, in this case from the parliaments, something that we are radically against. We are so against, that we want the opposite, that we believe that the political and managerial capacity of outside bodies must also be deepened. What's more, from the city halls as well. Moreover, we want to bring political and administrative management closer to the citizen. You want narrow-track centralism, you want to re-centralize Euskadi, the new re-centralizing majority of Euskadi, which reduces weight, reduces power to outside institutions and centralizes Euskadi in Vitoria. We believe, I insist, that they must continue to evolve with the new times, that we must put an end to duplication, that we must put an end to inefficiencies. Not with the model, which has been a model of success in these decades, which has been a model that has contributed to modernising Euskadi and to providing good service to citizens, to improving the quality of the provision that the institutions – in this case the outlaws – provide to the citizen. And Mrs. Corcuera asked rhetorically: "Why do they have to be different from each other?", talking about taxation, among other things. I was asking that question-sorry. Very simple: because they are not the same. Because Álava has a different singularity and characteristics different from vizcaines and different from gipuzcoans. Because outside institutions make it possible precisely to respond to this singularity in a more accurate way, because they bring service and administration closer to the citizen. Why are the taxes of Bilbao or those of Vitoria not the same as those of San Sebastián? Why? Because the reality of Bilbao, or the reality of San Sebastián and the reality of Vitoria are different. Why should they have, or have the possibility of outside parliaments doing a different policy, the one that does for example Álava, the one that does Bizkaia, or the one that does Gipuzkoa? Because the reality they face is different. You understand Euskadi's plurality as something positive, not as something to shrink, not as something to homogenize. It's positive. Let's make a flag of that difference, and reject homogenization, Mr. Maneiro. His project, the UPyD project of charging for outlaws, what he does is give wings to the nationalists and to that project of a united Euskadi and a separate Euskadi from Spain. Think about it, Mr. Maneiro, think about it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u96	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. End of discussion, we're gonna put the original text of the Misto-UPyD team. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters 1, 74; the opponents are white, 0; abstenations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u97	Original text not allowed. Next, we vote for the full order of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u98	It's not allowed to be the full run of Basque Socialists. Next, we vote for the full value of the EH Collectors. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u99	The correction to the EH Shades integer was not accepted. And finally, we'll vote for the full rights of the U.S. patriots. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u100	The U.S. patriots aren't allowed to run the full correction of the group. The whole meeting is interrupted until four o'clock. The meeting stopped at two o'clock in the afternoon and eighteen. The meeting resumed at four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u101	Five point in theme list: "Euscal Socialists made a law-group proposal, to encourage a treaty in favor of the inquiry. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Celaá, the Basque Socialist, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u102	Congressmans, president, chief physician, good evening to all. Let me start my afternoon session with a debate that took place in a committee of the American Senate, in which Senator Pastore was pressing Dr. Robert Wilson, director of the Fermi Laboratory, to ask him about the usefulness and practical application of particle physics. No one would ask about it today, would they? And Senator Pastore told him: "But is there anything related to this accelerator that somehow helps the country's security?". To which Dr. Wilson replied, "No, sir, I don't think so." Senator Pastore said, "But nothing at all?". And Dr. Wilson would say, "Nothing at all." And Senator Pastore: "Doesn't it have any value in this respect?" In the end, Dr. Wilson, arming himself with patience, said: "It only has to do with the value that we give each other, with mutual respect for the dignity of the person, our love for culture, our love for knowledge. It has to do with all that stuff. It has to do with good painters, good sculptors, great poets. I want to say all those things that people respect, venerate and want in our country and for what we are patriots. It has nothing directly to do with the defense of our country, except to make it worth defending." That is precisely, ladies and gentlemen, the essence of our pact today. This is an anecdote that has become a mantra in our Basque scientific community. What we're proposing is a popular pact for investigation. Research requires sufficient resources, especially the continuity of means, which are well known to prevent the events which occur in this area during a short time of many years of labour and effort. That's why we propose a permanent 5% increase on our annual budget. The future of our country consists in correcting new forms of production to highly added activities, which requires a strong research agent. Without research, there's no future. The elite research is the school of tomorrow's innovators. Look at this text: "Research in all aspects is vital to our country. There can be no technological development or a strong economy without a scientific and technological research infrastructure that serves as its basis. Today it is commonly accepted that the possession of good teams of scientists in the various branches of science, both basic and applied, allows not only a great advance in their own capacity for creation and innovation, but a greater speed in the learning and adaptation of external technological innovations". Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, science is the basis of innovation, it is the basis of our productive system. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell you that this text that I have just read to you is from the time of Carlos Garaikoetxea. "The industry" – this too is – "invests in the present. The government is investing – it should do so – in the future." The European economy, ladies and gentlemen, can be found in very delicate circumstances in most countries, but, incidentally, the most prosperous countries are those that continue to invest in research outside the economic situation in which they are located. This is what Germany, Norway, Sweden, Finland and others are doing that year after year, in a consistent way, increase their investment in R & D by between 3 and 6 %. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, prosperity has always focused on those places where knowledge has made it possible to take advantage of existing resources. And history, as you well know, shows us abundant examples, not only in ancient history: there you have Rome with Egyptian wheat, there you have the Netherlands, who took advantage of the gold and silver of the Americas that did not take advantage of Spain, because you knew about banking and finance, and you have contemporary examples. The truth is that it is no coincidence that the first industrial revolution emerges precisely in Germany and Britain, in the United Kingdom, because it was precisely there that primary education (almost nothing), two hundred years before we could do it. And it was precisely there that since the 17th century there has been scientific development in universities, which have already departed from the medieval paradigm, in Cambridge with Newton, and it was in Germany where Humboldt University declares its autonomy as an institution. So, while universities were developing in the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries in Europe, here even some smaller university was closed, such as Oñati's, and we had some prosperous examples, such as the Royal Patriotic Seminary of Vergara, where one of the Elhuyar brothers discovered the wolframio, but certainly we could not attend the creation of a university institution until the end of the 19th century, with the University of Deusto, the School of Engineers of Bilbao, and later, until 1968, where we attended the University of Bilbao and in 1981 finally the Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea. All the governments of Euskadi have been making efforts to make up for that deficit of being late, relatively late in science, and also being a small country. All the governments of Euskadi. However, we still have a deficit in what scientific development means. Today, to a large extent, and beyond examples of companies that actually sell science and technology in various parts of the world, we basically continue to live on exogenous knowledge, we basically continue to do so. And it's because our system is smaller in size in the part that corresponds to basic research. Euskadi, ladies and gentlemen, is a small country, it will never be able to compete in quantitative terms. You have to look, therefore, for the first line for its added value, in an increasingly globalized world concert. Therefore, in order to maintain ourselves, and bearing in mind our historical backwardness, we must move forward faster than the others. Because the others are moving, too. We need to create knowledge, we need more initial training and retraining of all people, among other reasons because for the maintenance of the welfare society and the sustainability of public accounts, taking into account our population ageing landscape, we need to get the whole population to work with more competitiveness, more productivity. So one of our main challenges is to ensure continuity in the arrival of resources to the creation of knowledge. That is one of the first conditions that we have to meet, because, ladies and gentlemen, economic development and research are an inseparable, absolutely inseparable twofold, in a virtuous circle, so that greater knowledge of economic development, and societies with greater economic development require more knowledge. So, ladies and gentlemen, we have a lot of research to do. And while today the term "fashion" is innovation, as it was a few years ago total quality, it is necessary to distinguish between what innovation means in a generic way and what a radical innovation, the product of a development of border knowledge, means. This is a crucial issue, because we will only compete for added value. And, ladies and gentlemen, innovation is almost everything: the development of dairy products is innovation, making a car more attractive is innovation... But a radical, significant innovation, which allows us to compete in added value, that develops with a strong knowledge base, which even to import from other places we need to have already developed us. Therefore, we need to flee from the application of the immediately useful, which knows in this present a variety that must be banished: the idea that the key to everything is innovation, that everything revolves around innovation in a generic way. Because with that recipe, ladies and gentlemen, we would enter into a tremendously expired formula. Because what we really need is to opt for those radical innovations, for that knowledge that we need to create. Not only in our agents (universities, BERC, etc., and in the other agents of the Basque Science and Technology System), but also in our companies. Ladies and gentlemen, research is precisely the one that transports, transfers, translates economic resources into knowledge, while innovation does just the following, i.e. translating knowledge back into products of interest to the economic productive system. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to this initiative, we are looking for harmonious development between basic science, applied science, technological development and innovation, but we are well expected to have a clear deficit in basic science. That is to say, just as we are an industrial country, and we must continue to be an industrial country, we have to contribute, we have to provide our industrial country with what the source of knowledge means. And for that, obviously, we have to grease well all our knowledgeable agents. As you know, research is not a luxury of rich countries with surpluses, but a prerequisite for such development. And besides the University of the Basque Country – and this is a relatively unknown issue – the University of the Basque Country, the other universities, the BERCs, Ikerbasque, get immediate returns in the form of competitive funds for the Basque Country. So a selection, a well-selected, well-evaluated research, a well-evaluated development, is profitable. We must therefore proceed with very demanding selection-financing processes, but these processes will result in the short term too (not only in the medium and long term), giving immediate returns that matter to the system. So, almost concluding, with all roundness, we will only be a competitive country on a global scale if part of the knowledge on which competitiveness is based we generate it in our R & D institutions and in our companies. And also today the transition between a scientific discovery and its translation into the economic world is increasingly brief, as you can see in all the knowledge that is available. Look at you, look at this image: the countries and regions of the world with more advanced innovation systems confront us with a model that is almost mimicked and that takes the iceberg model. The emerging part, which is transformed into novel applications, is based on a system less visible to the market but much larger in size, which is the sum of scientific researchers and technologists working in well-equipped and funded laboratories, integrated into the best knowledge networks in the world. Any country, any region that seeks to succeed in the long term without supporting its innovation system in a solid system of science and technology, is doomed to failure. I will almost conclude with what seems to me to be the four fundamental conditions for this scientific development. The first is to ensure, as I said, the continuity of the arrival of resources to the creation of knowledge. This is a fundamental issue, because a well-established research team costs up to ten years to achieve it, and can die of starvation in two or three years. So continuity in the arrival of resources to the creation of knowledge. A balance – and this is the second condition – without macrocephalies, a balance between basic and applied research, technological development and innovation. At this moment our system suffers from a macrocephaly at the last place in the chain. Third question. In our case, as I say, therefore, a greater effort in basic research. We cannot afford that if in 2012, with an even higher GDP, we were at 2.12, we dropped in 2014 to 1.93 in our investment in R & D. We must overcome that, among all of us, and we want to overcome it further. We have to get through this. And the fourth is obviously, and also as a consequence, consistency, permanence, coherence in our scientific policy. And that's why this pact, ladies and gentlemen. That's why this pact. This pact seeks to capture the will of all parliamentary groups represented in this House and representing the country to do this kind of science policy. I must say that we have all genuinely sought this pact, and until the end we have wanted the Nationalist Group to enter. We still have time. So, ladies and gentlemen, cheer up and let's get to it, because the amount was not exactly the most important issue. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Casanova is the representative of the EH Collect Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u104	Hello, good evening, everyone. Madame Isabel Celaá began her interference by mentioning a discussion in a parliament, and I shall do the same, which is not agreed, but it was a coincidence. I shall here mention a discussion which has been discussed in this chamber. Perhaps this Chamber is more simple than the Congress of the United States itself mentioned, but we speak of these matters here too, and for example we had a discussion last week, when Mr. Vicente Reyes made an interpenetration to Artazie and development around the descent of the funds. The conversation was very interesting, in which Viceente Reyes spoke of fewer money investing, and Mrs. Arzi Tapia replied that things were better organized in the new plan. And we do not believe that things are indissoluble or opposed. The quantum dimensions mentioned by Vicenez Reyes must be invested with more money, and what Artia used to say is that we should better organize the money we invest in our structure to make more profit. They are not inconsistent, they are supplementary, entirely supplementary, and absolutely necessary both dimensions, in this and in all matters: quantum and quantum dimensions. We've got to do things better, we've got to arrange our investigations better, but that's very important and necessary, and we've got to invest more money too. And that's what comes of the discussion today and the agreement we've made today. In the darkest times of the Argentine Corralito crisis there was a painted street that I often mention because I find it very amusing, showing the popular initiative or the popular inventiveness, which said: "Politics, enough of realities. We want promises." And it is true that I will not stand up for making promises that cannot then be fulfilled, but it is true that sometimes those who have a political responsibility, sometimes, or almost always, also have a leadership responsibility. A responsibility to set strategic objectives, to bring together forces around those strategic objectives, and also to ensure and provide the necessary resources. Given that it is the public institutions that manage a large part of the country's resources (of course, the budgetary sphere is its competence), public institutions are responsible for leadership in a number of areas, effectively in collaboration with society, but that leadership has to be clear and in some respects must be exercised efficiently. And one of them is the area that concerns us. We have a science and technology plan which faces, not as we would like to see 100 per cent, but which can be a valid instrument to meet the challenge of research and development in the next few years in this country, but which we believe has been adopted in terms of its budget allocation. This is not the first time mentioned here, but even if the budget targets or economic purposes are filled, those who are collected in this plan would not be placed in the parameters established by the European Union. Even if the funding targets included in the Science and Technology Plan 2020 are developed and met, we would not be at 3%. I am not going to go into the bombardment of figures, although this issue is very conducive to it, but there is indeed a fundamental issue, and it is that investment in research and development has fallen in this Community; that we are at 1.99 % of GDP. It is the same figure that China has, with the difference that China has multiplied by three in the last twenty years the percentage that it devotes to this issue. We are far from the 3% that marks the European Union as a reference. We are far from 3% of countries like Finland, Denmark, Sweden or Germany, that is to say those countries we should try to look at. And it's very dangerous to fall into self-inflict in this case, and it seems to me extremely troubling to hear triunifal messages from the mouth of public officials again and again. Euskal Herria, or the Basque Autonomous Community, is not a world leader in research and development. He is not a leader in investment, obviously because of his size he is not, but neither is he referring to the effort he is making on this very important issue. A consultancy specializing in R & D, looking at the data reflected in the Science and Technology Plan, described as a chimera achieving the 3% target, in line with the commitments reflected in that plan. Let us be realistic: we are not going to have 25% of the weight of industry in GDP, nor are we going to have 3% of the weight of research and development of GDP, if they do not change things and if public and private investments do not multiply. And that's what this proposition comes for. We hope we make an agreement and make it a commission from this Chamber. We're in a much lower reality and we have to make a statement. We have to decide where we want to go, we have to mark the strategic furrows, but we have to guarantee that the public and economic resources required to develop these strategic furrows are available. We agree on the importance of the industry, we agree on the importance of investigation, development, and innovation. We agree that the university must play the part. So let's go on with all this and make these beautiful words and pretend consensual words come to reality. And I'll mention a sentence of one of the greatest strata in history, namely Napoleon's, you probably know the phrase. He used to say that when you win a war, I don't like Belgian metaphors the war needed three things: money, money, and money. To fulfill these commitments and to the economic model that we need to develop and we need research, including money, money, and money. And this proposition follows: To mark precise engagements, ambitious commitments, but realistic ones. In this life sometimes there are things that get out of our reach, there are things that we can't get. We can try to do something and then, by factors outside our will, because we live in a complex world, maybe things don't turn out the way we wanted them to. But, of course, what is our responsibility is to give the best of ourselves and of us to achieve the goals we set ourselves. And in this sense, if we really want to raise the bar of our economy, of our industry and of our science system, it needs to be matched with a real bet and have its corresponding reflection in budgetary terms. We will certainly also be told about the central government's responsibility for the decline in R & D investment in recent times, and that is true. It is true, and here I will mention a question that has been discussed today at another point, as has been the high-speed train. The central government invests exclusively, in the territory of the Basque Autonomous Community, in the high-speed train. There is no major investment, no central government investment in this Community. And that supposes that there is a cost of investing in the high-speed train, there is a cost that is called opportunity cost: what is invested here is not invested in other things. For this country, therefore, there is a cost that the only investments made by the central government are in the field of high-speed trains and not, for example, in the field of research, which could also be made using the same legal mechanisms as those with which the financing of high-speed trains has been agreed. As I said before, it is a cost of opportunity: cannons or butter, as that economist, Paul Samuelson, said. We must choose and give priority, and the policy is to develop the right choices: if we want to trust all the infrastructures, if we want to fall into that fetishism of infrastructures that consists in thinking that because there is a train, because there is a road, because there is a port, because the art of magic is going to develop economic activity, which is a profound error, or if we think that the only way that there is a good harvest is to sow, and that sowing starts by investing in technology, science and development. What we have agreed and propose is to invest more money and put a specific amount to it. A debt, a minimum amount, a constant growth in regard to public investment. The current plan foresees that by 2020 we would be investing from public administrations 613 million, when the 3% target would require investing 793. There is 30% less money that should actually be available from public administrations to achieve these objectives, and today's proposal is to alleviate this deficit. We received a proposal from the PSOE that seemed to us to be good in its general terms, which placed the debate very well. We have negotiated and managed to accept a series of proposals on our part, which I believe make it even better. And we believe this agreement may be a good starting-point, to send a clear signal to Esscal society. And what is meant by this sign is that public institutions compromise themselves with a strong wager for the future with investigation, development, and innovation. Besides, it's not an option, it's the only option. We may have disagreements about how this is handled, about business, public and private relations, we can talk about it and discuss it, and there will be differences. But I don't think there's any doubt about where our economic future is going: a new productive pattern based on technology, ecology, and social rights. There's a chance to take a step in that direction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u105	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Corracles, the Eubertarian, representing the team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u106	Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, President, chief of departments. In Eukata, he favors research and innovation. It is in the identity of our people, and an element of distinguishing them from other communities and states. From his creation, in 1980, an important point of the support of Eukong's favourites is a bet for knowledge. Of all the discourses we shall hear in this tribe, we cannot find any one that can say or think against it. And this is in politics a distinct element: To share a common view, which I insist on, in the importance of being an important element of the right road, which we point to be more satisfactory, even in yours. The details will come, and today we will discuss them. But we must consider that this principle is an element for everyone to be proud of. We seek the prosperity of our people. The prosperity of the Pertsion, the training, the Euskadi Seed by some exlogan belonging to a campaign. In the recent history of Euskadi, the development orientation of R & D has been one of the main priorities. The reason is that there was and continues to be a widespread awareness that the long-term progress of a country lacking material resources cannot be achieved without the commitment to research, development and research. The Basque administration has actively dedicated significant resources to this field, even before it received the transfer by the State in 2009. Society in general and the political forces as a whole share this constant commitment of the Basque Government. There is, therefore, no need for a pact on this, since this consensus already exists, and we all recognize it as one of the great strengths of our country. The investment that the Basque Government continues to make today in research is far superior to that of other autonomous communities. Spanish R & D at the end of 2013 was 1.36%. Despite the crisis, Euskadi has maintained the state's largest investment in its science network, the talent-gathering programme, the consolidated groups, the researchers' training grants, the university plan, which allows the state's best-funded public university in terms of teacher-student ratio, etc. On 16 December, the Basque Government approved the Science, Technology and Innovation 2020 Plan. We are on 30 April, perhaps too soon even to assess today in this Parliament a plan which runs until 2020, but we have the Socialist Party, which has brought us the non-law proposal that we are dealing with. The plan adopted a few months ago has the following objectives and the following funding, although I think you all already know it. Its objective is to improve the well-being, sustainable economic growth and employment of Basque society, through a research and innovation policy based on smart specialization and improving the efficiency of the Science, Technology and Innovation System. The Science, Technology and Innovation Plan foresees a public-private investment of EUR 11.1 billion between 2014 and 2020. This EUR 11.1 billion means a determined and necessary stake in research and innovation. An investment not becoming part of the economic situation, but to deal with it, but with a short- and medium-term strategy, because, outside the situation, it is our management model, it is the management model of Euskadi, as companies, as universities and as a country. Of the EUR 11,100 million, a total of EUR 3,677 million, approximately one third of this investment, will be provided by public administrations, of which the Basque Government will contribute EUR 2,737 million; another EUR 6,609 million, approximately 60%, will be provided by companies for the financing of business research and innovation projects, and the rest, i.e. EUR 814 million, will be financed through European funds and R & D projects in Euskadi by multinational companies. In short, the plan aims to increase public-private investment by 44% between 2014 and 2020 in R & D+i. The growth foreseen in this plan is: public funding, annual average growth rates of 2 % for 2015 and 2016, and an average annual growth of 4 % is estimated for the following years 2017, 2018, 2019 and 2020. Our group believes that it is to be proud, with which we are falling, with which we are falling in general, to generate confidence in investors or citizens. We bet to improve, Euskadi bet to improve, to be stronger, to grow. In relation to fundamental research, the Science, Technology and Research Plan aims to increase the investment burden in fundamental research activity on total R & D investment from the current 14% to 15% by 2020. In order to contribute to this ambitious objective, the 2015-2020 University Plan will mobilise 103,646,877 euros until 2018, surpassing this investment in the previous University Plan by 4 million euros. This data we believe should be at the forefront, should be above all the texts that we have on the table today: on the one hand the GNP, on the other hand the amendments of the whole, including the compromise amendment to which the Socialist Party with EH Bildu has arrived. It is therefore difficult to deal with the possibility of talking about changes or new agreements such as those referred to by Mrs Celaá, on a plan that has just been born, on the Science, Technology and Research Plan, even on the newly approved University Plan as well. The Socialist Group proposes to us a pact, an agreement to increase research funding by at least 5%. The pact, the agreement, already exists. There is no need for any of us, any of the groups present here, to attribute this initiative to ourselves. The pact is periodically renewed through the appropriate instruments led by the Government itself, such as the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community, the Science and Technology Plan, the University Plan, etc., etc. Being aware of the conjuncture and the possibilities of additional economic contributions to the plan, the growth forecasts of our economy will mark the resources we have to be able to grow that investment, which if possible will be made, but always according to the financing table that goes from this year to 2020. If there are resources we can address the improvement in the financial section, but it depends on how the economy progresses. On an issue as important as this, with such a strong budget allocation, we cannot understand that they want to include extraordinary funding different from that already established in the Science and Technology Plan, in the forecasts that were already made four months ago when the plan was approved. The Government is working from the utmost budgetary rigour, and we do not understand this need to enter into a debate that has only just been closed for four months, and also with the agreement of the agents involved in research, who are the agents who carry out the research themselves. I also agree that we should be proud and congratulate the actors involved and the Basque Government itself, because their search, that search for agreement, both in the University Plan and in the Basque Council of Science and Technology, has been very positive, in short, for having marked the path that will allow this country, which will allow Euskadi to continue to share our vision of what makes us and will make us stronger, both universities and companies and people, that is, in general Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u107	Thank you, Miss Corles. It's the team turn that hasn't run any corrections. Miss... he will not speak. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs. Ruiz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u108	Yes, thank you, President. Well, I want my first words today in this speech to be of congratulations and appreciation to Professor Martí Massó, who was awarded the 2014 Euskadi Research Award yesterday. Martí Massó, full professor of Medical Neurology at the University of the Basque Country and head of the Neurology and Neurophysiology Service of the University Hospital of San Sebastián, whose research work is primarily applied and results-oriented. Well, as we are talking about research, before we enter into the content of the non-legislative proposal that is put to the vote, I would like to refer, albeit briefly, to the justification of this initiative, because as a small state of affairs, together with the data, it is based on some premises that can condition the debate. While it is universally recognized that the research and development effort translates in the medium term into an increase in a country's gross domestic product, I would not be so categorical in saying that the richest and most developed countries do not invest in R & D because they are richer and more developed, but because they have invested more than the rest in investment and development. Nor would I say or affirm without nuances that science and research works for the future and the company for the present alone. Undoubtedly, wealth and research are two correlated variables, which research generates development and wealth, but I believe that this relationship is also in the opposite direction, and that the more wealth there is, it is also easier to invest in research. You, Mrs Celaá, say that countries no longer invest in R & D because they are richer, but because they have invested. Yeah, but not at all. It is also more invested in the extent, I insist, to the extent that more budgetary resources have been generated, whether or not these resources have been generated through research. Cutting R & D spending – you say in justification – is not a measure of austerity, but of impoverishment. What is yes or yes is a cut, and what the Basque Government has done in this legislature has been, according to its data, cut in research: in 2011 it was 2.12 of the gross domestic product, and two years after 1,99 %, according to Eustat. You also mention as a reference countries that grow thanks to the R & D effort they make, such as the United States, Germany, Finland, Norway and Sweden, with annual increases of 3% to 6% from one budget to the previous. And they do it out of the economic situation. That economic situation, in the opinion of the People's Party, is not even similar depending on which country we are referring to. And we consider that it conditions, and very much, the budgets, also the research budgets. However, as an objective we agree that resources must be expanded and at least equated with the European parameters that Horizon 2020 marks, and I understand that the Basque Government also works and moves in these coordinates. It is also done by the Government of Spain in its State Plan for Scientific and Technical Research and Innovation 2013-2016. The president of the government recently, at a breakfast at the Hotel Villa Magna, has conveyed that he is going to re-present himself as a candidate, but he also spoke of science, innovation and research. And he was talking about the 5% increase effort he intends to maintain, or it's his will, as long as the conditions allow. And I insist, if conditions permit. Of course, by increasing, as planned, to 2.9% they will certainly allow it. And if in Euskadi it also grows at a similar rate it should also be possible. But, Mrs Celaá, not on the sidelines of the economic situation, as your justification and your original proposal says. Now, in the transaction they present, we see two previously absent nuances. It is no longer a 5% annual minimum increase; now we are talking about an increase of 5% annual average over a five-year cycle. And we all know how to make socks and we all know what a typical deviation is, and that also gives room for manoeuvre when planning and budgeting. This does make your proposal compatible with the current and foreseeable budgetary situation for the coming years if the situation permits. That is why we can join in and support that amendment with that wording. An increase in economic resources for research is inevitable that it is associated with the economic situation, because, if not, how does your group justify not having this demand prevail in its budget negotiation in the accounts that are in force today? Today we Basques perceive more benefits derived from science and technology than two years ago; however, scientific interest has suffered a slight decline also in the last two years. The priority research areas for Basque citizens are health, energy and food, and scientists and doctors are the most valued professionals. This is what the data from the last survey of social perception of science and technology in Spain, of the Foundation of Science and Technology, which also analyzes the perception of Basques, show. This same study concludes that the Basques are more interested in science than in the economy, the environment, the events and, thank God, the subjects of the famous. However, more than science, Basques are interested in employment, medicine, sports or politics. There is also a clarity in this study, which links science and research with age and gender. Clearly, young people between the ages of twenty-five and thirty-four are the most interested, and that is good for the present and also for the future of research. The dark, that there is a very significant gender gap: men triple women in numbers interested in science and technology. The latter question should certainly be corrected by public policies. Severo Ochoa said that research in principle needs more heads than means, but means and resources are evident than the best. Apart from the support that my parliamentary group is going to give to your compromise amendment, it has drawn our attention that, being so recent, so fresh some plans, debates and agreements in this House, such as the University Plan 2015-2018, with a monographic debate on 25 February with its motions for resolutions, and a Science, Technology and Innovation Plan 2020 and a budget agreement in force between nationalists and socialists, whether now when this issue is addressed, at the initiative of the Socialist Party, this issue. But in any case we are going to support it, because we agree to make an economic investment effort if the economic forecasts for the future allow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Passing on the day of the answers, the representative of the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Celaá, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u110	Yes, I would like to begin by thanking Mrs Ruiz for her support of the proposal and reassure her in a sense: in that the voice of the Socialist Group has always been in the defence of these ideas, both when she defended the budgets and when she defended the University Plan, and unfortunately she was unable to defend the PCTI because she did not correspond to being a member of her board. This allows me to link my speech with Mrs Corrales's speech. Because what Mrs Corrales is saying to me is that there is no need, listen, for no one to blame himself for this initiative. I mean, everything for the people but without the people. I mean, absolute paternalism. I mean, we've already decided elsewhere, we've already decided on it in the Science, Technology and Innovation Council. Because it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that today we are talking primarily about science, we are talking fundamentally about scientific discoveries at the border. We're talking about this. In order for that knowledge to be applied, it must be believed. The application of this knowledge has already left it for other debates that are more based on what innovation, economic development, etc. mean. We are talking about the first part, the anchored part, the large part of that iceberg, which is submerged, which is not seen, but without which there would be no emerging part, there would be no part that could be applied to economic development. I am surprised, Mrs Corrales, that you have not been able – truly, I say this to you genuinely and with all good will – to have said "Look at you, since what is similar or plentiful does not hurt, because it is good, listen, we will all join that pact". Because the intention of the Nationalist Group to validate what has been said in the Science, Technology and Innovation Council, which means an agreement of all the political forces represented in this Parliament, is what seems to me to be poorly political and efficient for the country. Yes, you say to me, "We can't understand you putting in extraordinary funding." You know very well, Mrs Corrales, that 5% or 4% have not been the subject of any question. The fact that you wanted, in some way, to get the ball out of the field laying the basis for 2016. And, Mrs Ruiz, don't be afraid, because we actually approve together with this government... that is, we accompanied you in the adoption of the 2015 budget, in which we also obviously had our demands in relation to the investigation, but it is 2015 that is taken as the basis. 2015, because the 2015 that is taken as the basis, and that eventually will be able to build a budget for 2016, is the one that falls within our responsibility. There will be another government, there will be another parliament, and obviously we are responsible for the elements we have in front of us. That is why, Mrs Corrales, we have all the budgetary rigour in the world, but we are obviously not going to give up the possibility that we have as parliamentary groups of formulating a country pact. A country pact for science (Science is vital; science, ma'am), for science, so that it can effectively be the basis of everything that this economic development means. And why not? Hey, what's bothering you guys? If you can be part of the pact! If you are called to be part of that covenant! And you tell me, "Hey, you don't need to be attributed" – textual words – "so-called initiative". But, hey, of course not! But, listen, I am an active political agent in this country, just like the rest, just like the rest, and I am a member of this Parliament, just like these gentlemen, let these, let these...! Same! And you have reached an agreement on an absolutely legitimate, absolutely legitimate Science, Technology and Innovation Council. That does not mean that we cannot bring, to this forum in which we are all represented, a country agreement that drives it, that drives it. And you know the figure wasn't the problem. You know that. But, look, I'm gonna finish. I'd have a lot more to tell you. I don't mean things that... anyway, anyway, but I'm just gonna end up with something that... Hey, the universities, if everything's so good, what are they complaining about? What are you complaining about? Hey, scientists, if everything's so good, but what are these gentlemen complaining about? I will only conclude with one sentence: "In addition to the key role as a direct investor in science and technology, the Government can and must do much to translate scientific discoveries and technologies into products. To this end, it has mechanisms that go from supporting strategic lines of fundamental and technological research to encouraging investment and public procurement. It is important that politicians are convinced of the importance they have for the future of Euskadi" (We are not talking about antipodes!) "a long-term commitment aimed at generating growth and jobs through science." Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about asking, "Are we investing enough?". The fundamental question is: "Are we investing enough to change and modify our economic development and bring employment to the Basque population, employment in knowledge-intensive enterprises?". That is the question, Your Honor, and I believe it is appropriate today to support this. And if you want, look at 5% of the average, you can maneuver there with your Science, Technology and Innovation Plan. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u112	Is it enough for this other proposition of ours as today, or the budget that we are going to try today, to deal with the situation we've got? I think it's not enough. I think we need a lot more than that 5% annual increase. For us, let us say, this is an agreement, a meeting point which has the fundamental objective of guaranteeing a minimum, a soil, but we believe that if we really are aware of the situation we have, of the socio-economic situation we have, of the needs we have, here what should be there is perhaps even deeper reflection than today. We wanted to send a clear message, that is, a plan is approved, and here we are not going to present an amendment to that plan as a whole or to say that that plan has to be withdrawn. That plan can be a starting point, but that plan has to be improved, deepened, and one of the aspects in which it has to be improved is not only that this Parliament has not given its opinion on this plan and that some groups and some opinions have remained outside, but that there is also a part, which is the economic part, the budgetary part, which I believe is weak from the point of view of public investment, and obviously also from the private part. If in the objectives we set ourselves we do not reach 3% of the investment in R & D, then any deviation or any failure with respect to those objectives – and in this plan, in addition to the public investment commitments, there are also projections of what can be invested from the private sector, on what there is not so much guarantee that they will materialise as they arise – because, of course, I have many doubts. Many doubts, I say, not because of the structuring of the science and technology network, but because resources are really going to be enough. I believe that, even if today we approve this request for an increase in guarantee, an annual increase of 5%, we still need to reflect, because we have a productive model that is not up to the task, and that, since we do not make a very strong injection of money and resources of all kinds in that model, we can remain out of play. Self-congratulation is suicidal. To love the country and to love this country, and even to want its independence, does not mean to proclaim at all times that it is the best country in the world. We are not going to become a kind of Manolo that of the political bomb, let's say "Euskadi is the best, Euskal Herria is the best, the ones we research most, the leaders in industry, the leaders of the new industrial revolution". Let us be aware of reality, and reality is not that. The reality is a country that has a problem, which invests 2% in R & D, which is much less than the most competitive countries in the world invest, taking into account that we are a small country that specializes in industry. And, therefore, the gap between our current investment and what we should have is a serious gap, which is not even solved even if this 5% annual growth is implemented. So, here's a problem. And what we want to send to society today, as I said before, is a clear message. And that's exactly the message that we're going to make investments, even if there's any situation in research and development, we're going to have to armor the investment that's made in this area because it's strategic. And that's the message we want to project. And we've tried, and we've succeeded in accepting other elements, as we're now discussing, which, what we think, give more integrated perspective to what we're going to test today. We have also tried to include ensuring an increase in the university's budget annually. We have not come into practice because it obviously corresponds to other areas of debate to quantify and, let us say, to design how this increase is to be translated into practice, but what cannot be done is to say that we are betting on a knowledge society, and that the central pillar, in a small community like ours, which is the public university, remains at the expense of budgetary changes and is not guaranteed that every year, as a strategic element that is of the construction of the future of this country, does not guarantee a budgetary increase. And this is what is called for in this proposal and is going to be adopted here today. We also wanted to mention the leadership and strategic responsibility of public institutions. We also wanted to make a bet on the large, small and medium-sized research infrastructures. In this country, when we talk about infrastructure, we automatically think about cement, but if we want to play the league of technology in the first division we have to make bets also for important research infrastructures at all levels. And finally, I did not want to end without mentioning an issue that we have managed to introduce in this proposal, which is the guarantee that there will be a mention of the role and employment situation of many researchers along with the scholarships. Because the sad reality of this country is that, although it is a prestigious sector, very well valued in society, there are many researchers, doctors and doctors, with more than thirty years of age, with JCR, with publications, with stays abroad, who today live in precariousness, chaining scholarships and with a situation of absolute instability. And, therefore, it must be borne in mind that there is also job insecurity and the need for improvements in this regard. In general, as I said before, we had a good proposal; I think it has improved as a result of the amendments, and I think it is a good sign to this society where it has to go, although we must continue to work and deepen in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u113	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Corries, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u114	Thank you, Mr. President. Indeed, Mrs Celaá, the Basque Government can be part of the pact, and so it has been in its thirty years of life. Of whatever colour it has been, the Basque Government has been in the research agreements that have been made. Because what is a covenant? A pact is taken when there are problems, a pact is taken between all the parties (which you, Mrs Celaá, are not going to achieve today, because we are not going to support that first point); a pact is necessary when things do not work, working previously between all the parties. This Government has therefore been part of all the research agreements that have been concluded in the last thirty years. Although I think you also mix quite a country pact, pact among all political forces... Agreements can be reached among all political forces, but a country pact cannot be adopted in this Parliament, because I believe that not all the institutions are represented in this Parliament. So – and I move on to what is going to be the meaning of the vote on paragraph 7, which, I am also going to ask for the point vote – in paragraph 7, because it refers to a country pact, but it refers to continuing to work on research policy and goes in line with what is our whole amendment, we will abstain on that point. It is not the way or the time, Mrs Celaá, that I have already told you in the first speech. You call for a pact, an agreement to increase research funding by at least 5%, and I repeat to you again, because I think it is absolutely necessary, two things. The agreement has been in existence for a long time, for many years. And the pact is being renewed, as I also told you in the first intervention, through the appropriate instruments led by the government itself: the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community, the Science and Technology Plan, and the University Plan. The Science, Technology and Innovation Plan is approved by a broad-spectrum plural organ, such as the Science and Technology Council itself, which is composed of deputies-general, health advisers, economic development and competitiveness, and education directors of Basque universities, Ikerbasque and the Basque Innovation Agency. There is an agreement there, there was an agreement at the time when the plan was approved. And the University Plan was the subject of debate in this very Parliament and was enriched by the motions for resolutions adopted at this very place, to which you too, through the compromise amendment, want to amend, through your point number 2, as the representative of Bildu has said, expanding, doubling the funding of that University Plan year after year. In contrast, therefore, to what was also adopted not even three months ago in the Governing Council and which then passed to this Parliament for motions for resolutions. These are, Mrs Celaá, the right tools to set the investment guidelines for R & D. Do not therefore intend, through a GNP, to make a budgetary decision (an increase of at least 5%, as you say, in research) through a non-legislative proposal, as is the case today. Because what you are doing is also stealing the budget debate and breaking the consensus that has already been achieved in the above-mentioned tools, in the Science and Technology Council and in approving the University Plan. Do you not realize, therefore, Mrs Celaá, Mr Bildu's representative, that it makes no sense at all? They are approved plans, agreed among all actors and institutions. And that plan also points out – which I believe is important to note – that these plans have the task of optimizing existing resources. There is, therefore, agreement on the increase in contributions; in the same plans these annual increases are written, which will be given in each of them. It is necessary, as we propose in our overall amendment, to continue to invest in R & D as we have been doing so far, as the Basque Government has been doing so far, in order to give stability to these policies, which have been and will continue to be, under the leadership of this and successive governments, the pillar on which Euskadi's differential fact is based, in this case the investigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u115	Thank you, Miss Corles. Euskal Group Representative, Mrs. Ruiz... he must not speak. End of discussion, we'll vote for the Euskal Socialists and the EH Collectors' negotiation signed by the teams. A vote has been requested. Is there a problem with a spot?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u116	President, we allow you to vote for points exclusively out of parliamentary courtesy, because...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u117	Okay, that's enough.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u118	...the whole non-law proposition, the whole transaction, sets up a whole. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u119	Mrs. Celaa, that's enough. They're all like that. [[Berber]] First, we vote first, second and fifth points. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 27; white, 0; abscessations are 0.0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u120	First, second and fifth points have been accepted. Next we vote for the third and fourth. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u121	The third and fourth have been admitted by one mouth. And in the end, we vote for the sixth and the seventh. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u122	The sixth and seventh points have been approved. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal of the Julian bill as an Euscal Act, concerning the establishment of digital traces in the profession. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr Maroto, who represents the Potula team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u123	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President, and good afternoon to you all. We bring a proposal for the introduction of the fingerprint in Lanbide, but they will allow me, since I have just known, reading a medium of communication, a news that is of maximum relief, of actuality, because it comes that neither the hair... It is published in one of the digital media (in particular I'm going to read it from the Newsdealava.com page), but it will surely be published in all the media, and it will also be published in all the radio and television media, if not tonight, tomorrow. This news says: "National Police agents have arrested in Bilbao a citizen who had received 40,700 euros in support of the Basque Employment Service with a supplanted identity. In addition, it had already received another EUR 50,800 as a beneficiary of income guarantee income and housing assistance with its real identity". It also says: "The agents, after contacting the Basque Employment Service-Lanbide, found that this person had received aid, since 2010, amounting to €91,558. Of this money, 50,852 had received them with their true identity, which appeared both in their foreign identity card and in their temporary residence permit, for being a beneficiary of income security income and housing assistance. However, the remaining €40,706 had been collected by means of a supplanted identity contained in the passport that was intervened by the agents and that was forged." Before going on, I would now say exactly the same about this citizen, who is in this case a Nigerian citizen, as well as any citizen with eight Basque surnames. The same, exactly the same. I would say the same thing about a person who has been registered for three years and a day in the old town, from which this is discovered, as well as a person with three generations of Dato de Vitoria Street. Same thing. And I say this because the important thing is to talk about a system in Lanbide that allows to improve a problem that happens every day. And it seems, in fact, that the occasions paint them bald. On this occasion we have, at 12 noon (I was able to see it at this time in the afternoon), this news that reflects a problem. A problem that's real, that you can't hide in a drawer, that you can't get under the carpet. A problem, simply, that it is found that today in Basque, today in Lanbide, the principle of "a person an identity" can be violated. I insist on this, because it's substantial to me. I care if the citizen you have arrested defrauding Lanbide is a Nigerian citizen, as if he were twenty generations from the Basque Country. I care about a cucumber. The problem is that the principle of "a person an identity" is not maintained. The citizens, in any corner of Euskadi, when tomorrow they read this news in the paper editions, or today in the digital editions, radio and television, are going to ask themselves a question, I suppose, which is the question I ask myself and which I share here today: whether the new technologies allow the principle of "one person an identity" to be guaranteed throughout the world using tools such as the fingerprint; whether in the municipal police of Vitoria to enter every morning in the offices of Aguirrelanda all agents have to put their finger on a fingerprint device; whether the new offices of the City Council of Vitoria in the district of San Martín are going to have as a system of access to all public employees the fingerprint, why can it not be introduced in Lanbide, on a general basis, for any kind of fraud, for any kind of citizen, in the pilot tests that are necessary, the fingerprint? And that question has a very simple answer. The answer is that there is a lack of political will. Or not? To date, this lack of political will has been noted in the statements of different public officials, among others by the councillor himself. I do not think that the introduction of tools that solve problems in queue management, in document management, in identity management is any problem, because what my group advocates is that they be introduced, but applied for all alike, for everyone alike. What cannot continue to happen is that we find on even days, in the media, news like today, that there are actually people who know how to use false documentation. And every day we find citizens who are normally scandalized, because the amounts are important, because the same person can deceive Lanbide and collect several RGIs, whether this person of Algerian nationality, Nigerian nationality or eight Basque surnames. I repeat it for the third time, I hope there is no doubt about this. I care about a cucumber the color of the skin you disappoint. I don't care very much. What I want is for Lanbide to really be rigorous. The tools that introduce new technologies are for all citizens, for all public employees of an administration who use the fingerprint to access their jobs. I think it is particularly relevant, because I have read it in some of the amendments, that there is no stigmatisation. As there is no stigmatization in the application of a formula like this to the 2,000 public employees of the City of Vitoria, which will use its fingerprint formula as a method of access. I hope that none of them will consider that, and that no citizen will consider it either. As I said, even days news of false identities in Lanbide, charging two, three, four, five, six, seven and up to ten times a RGI per month. And odd days news that there are indeed systems and procedures to prevent such frauds, such as the fingerprint. Today all the groups in this House, except mine, are saying no, no, no: "It is this thing that Mr Maroto of the People's Group says, then, no, that this is something that cannot be applied, because it stigmatizes." And I believe that we should indeed take a step forward, a step that is of common sense: the step of recognizing that things can be done better; of recognizing that we are talking about a tool for all kinds of perceptors, whoever they are. And I stress it again: for all kinds of perceptors, whoever they are. Because you don't ask a city official, to access the city hall, how many surnames he has, or what kind, to apply the fingerprint to him or not. It is for everyone, because it is a better, faster, more efficient system, and also, in an equally obvious way, it is found that with all those resources that are published daily, and all the resources that are not published daily, and Lanbide outflows are being produced fraudulently, many more people can be helped. I sincerely believe that at this time of difficulty Lanbide's solidarity must be extended, there must be more cases to help. Solidarity must be broader. There are many people who need it and who need that coverage, and resources are limited. Although GIR is a subjective right, we must arbitrate formulas for it. I believe that it should not be the Basque Parliament that determines the pace and speed at which Lanbide must introduce the fingerprint, because I am convinced that it will introduce it, as it has been introduced in the digital phones, as it has been introduced in the identification systems of the public administration. By that same rule of three, because it's better, it's faster and it's safer, which is why I'm convinced it will be done. It only depends on the political will. From the political will of a chamber that has to understand that things are what they are, and also from the political will of a chamber and a government that must understand that if there are tools to improve management, apply. Let's stop picking up the problem and put it in a drawer. And, I insist, today's news is the one that has been published, but I would have said exactly the same thing about any other news from any other beneficiary of the Basque Employment Service, whoever it is, because this is for everyone, absolutely for everyone. I hope you understand this message, which, by the way, is a message of maximum common sense. I have also tried to do so in the best of terms, because I believe that it is absolutely necessary to address this debate rigorously, and I hope that in that sense this initiative will be supported, and that we can explain to the citizens tomorrow that we understand the message, that we understand the problem, but that, as in so many other things, this House understands that there are solutions, and that any measure to eliminate fraud will be welcome, whoever commits it, whatever the color of the skin, and whatever the name that recipient of social assistance has. And doing that is just making a better Lanbide, a more effective management of public resources. That is why I am convinced that if we see it this way, and the debate is that (because it is that alone), this initiative should be adopted unanimously. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u124	Thank you, Mr Marot. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Sarazia, the Basque Socialist, is the representative of the group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u125	Mr. Maroto, you're out of your league. Oh, isn't it yours? Mr. Maroto, it was you who just explained to us why you are involved in this crusade. You have already done so when the signatures of the popular initiative were registered here, and it is clear that you have come to this House to turn the signatures into votes. You just showed us you're running an election campaign. His speech is incendiary, it's irresponsible, and also, to me, it's denigrating. The fact that a person commits a crime, a fraud or a extortion, or a tax fraud, does not make the rest of them guilty, Mr. Maroto. And it's obvious that the police are working and are detecting all kinds of cases, because news in the press is there every day. You, the gentlemen of the People's Party, and the ladies, don't you read them? So, what are we talking about, Mr. Maroto? I am going to start my speech in this House by saying what we have to say: that the Basque protection system has made it possible to reduce poverty in Euskadi by 40%, preventing thousands of people from entering a situation of serious social exclusion. And this is not baladi, Mr. Maroto, we're talking about poverty. Its efficiency and effectiveness, as well as its assessment, should not be in question. Still, there are many people who stay out of the system, who do not apply for help despite their precarious situation, because they do not know that they are entitled to it. And you're not talking about this. The fact is that the economic crisis and the implementation of labour reform have led to an increase in the number of people unemployed, have led to job insecurity, discontinuous contracts and low wages. In short, there is more and more evidence of the scarcity and absence of income from employment income in many Basque households, as well as in many Alaves and Victorians, Mr Maroto. You never talk about that data. It must be emphasized that the greatest vulnerability, do you know where it occurs? In homes with children. And you should also give importance to this. Given the current economic situation, it is important for us to be concerned precisely with how many people are in a situation of vulnerability and exclusion, and how efforts are being made to resolve their situation in Lanbide and in basic social services. The data should lead us to reflection and political debate in order to reach a consensus on the adjustments that the Basque social protection system needs, and not on the path of dissent and artificial and interested controversy about social aid, which in a planned (planned) way are arbitrated under strict electoral interests, Mr Maroto, which lead only to facing one citizen with another. What this Parliament has to do is to stop those clashes concerned, and not to be dragged away by electoral interests, Mr Maroto. That is what this Parliament has to do. What this Parliament must recognise is that there is a pressing problem: 500,000 people, Basques and Basques, who suffer from a lack of well-being. You don't think so? 22.7% of the population. And 177,000 at risk of social exclusion, poverty, which is 8.2%. And it's a very important fact. And we're talking about people, Mr. Maroto. People. The explanatory statement of his initiative, which we are discussing today, says that social policies are a basic pillar and a sign of identity in our society. Obviously. And in this sense it would be interesting for you to tell us what you mean by "our society" and who is part of it. That would be interesting. It also argues that new technologies improve the delivery of public service (of course), and in all policy areas, and that the digital footprint allows for better recognition of users' identity. But it matifies that only in cases where it is deemed necessary. You don't talk about eight Basque surnames. You decide where, when and according to what criteria it is or is not necessary to apply the fingerprint. And you here haven't told the whole truth. You've changed the speech by leaning on a news story, and you've turned it around, but that's not what you've been saying from before until now. It also states in the explanatory statement that the implementation of the digital footprint improves the efficiency of the economic management of public resources; however, in the operative part they request the Basque Government to implement the digital footprint as a system of recognition for a specific group of people who perceive GIR. An approach that discriminates and stigmatizes, and that is the reality. Do you realize, Mr Maroto, that you have been questioning the poor for months and stigmatizing certain groups; that you are raising poverty certificates and fingerprints for people who have less resources, while applying tax amnesties for tax evaders and for those who have taken large amounts of money to tax havens? You marginalize those who suffer the most, people who want to work, and yet have been called upon to ask for help in order to live with dignity. We're looking at what the People's Party's postulates are. You raise, I say again, certificates of poverty, fingerprints for certain groups. In Madrid, Mrs Esperanza Aguirre proposes prohibiting homeless people from sleeping on the streets, in order to avoid harming tourism; an approach contrary to current legislation, because it limits the free movement of people. Mr Maroto, it is logical to put the fingerprint on all persons receiving social assistance, at the same time as the tax evaders, as well as the beneficiaries of public health or education, or any of the benefits of the State or the public administration that are available to citizens. Today, it is the deadline for the clients of financial institutions to carry their ID to be digitized, an operation that is bound by the current legislation, and this measure affects all people without exception, and citizenship is fulfilling that legal obligation without questioning or stigmatizing anyone. If you are so concerned about compliance with current law and establishing control systems, why don't you discipline yourself to control your work as mayor? You have many people waiting for it to be equally strict with the abuses, such as that of the San Antonio premises, or with cases such as those of the Iradier Arena, or that of the Gardelegui construction waste plant, or the attempt to illegally hire a person in the Gilsa company, etc., etc. You should set an example and start by yourself, before questioning and stigmatizing certain groups. I conclude by highlighting the agreement that we have reached with the Basque Nationalist Group, which incorporates the amendments that we both tabled, and which I will end by reading. Firstly, the Basque Parliament recognizes the difficulty that thousands of Basque families are going through as a result of the measures taken in this long and profound crisis, and defends the public social protection system as a tool of solidarity and cohesion, so that no one who needs it will be deprived of a minimum income of dignity. For this reason, it rejects any attempt at party instrumentalization based on generalizations – here is the key –, stigmatizations of collectives or any other element that confronts citizens who pass needs, that only seeks to weaken and that cuts down the social protection system and breaks the balance of the tolerant and solidarity society built in the last three decades. Secondly, the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to improve and speed up the operation of Lanbide, for a more effective treatment of income-guarantee income and supplementary housing provision, and to develop all the mechanisms provided for in the current legislation to prevent any person from being deprived of his or her minimum income of dignity. To this end, it calls on the Basque Government to provide Lanbide with the necessary control resources to ensure the proper management of its services and to activate agreements with the rest of the public administrations to expedite the relevant files and their verification. Finally, the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue to carry out as many work, studies and reports as it deems necessary to modernise and update digital identification systems before the public administration for all people (Mr. Maroto, for all people), without the stigmatization of any group. For our part, nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u126	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Congressmen, good evening to all of you. Again, we have a question of discussion as to what concerns only Mr. Moroto's subject. As you all know, we're talking about our friends to ensure their incomes and the circumstances of the necessary demands. Today the Popular Party demands that the digital traces of the profession be set. Eubertarians support progress by means of means of the administration of technical use, and, as far as possible, even in private life, why not. It's good for us to use new resources that can facilitate all our daily jobs and tramites. What we don't share is by no means shared by innovation, by means of using techniques to stigmatize a group of people. We are in favour of progress, of the use of technical advances that favour the most agile, flexible and secure relationship between the administration and the citizenry, but with the same roundness we are against the use of such means to stigmatize and control certain specific groups. It is clear that the People's Party with its GNP intends to point out, as it has been doing so far since last July, to the recipients and recipients of income guarantee income. They are intended to stigmatise, to say that they comment on all the frauds of the GIR and the PCV, that there is the so-called effect, and that if people decide to come to live in Euskadi it is because of the existence of these aids. But it is not that it is intended, it is that it has been said by several representatives of the People's Party. Mr. Maroto, we have told you once and a thousand times: we do not share that speech. Moreover, it is in the antipodes of our position. We have a pioneering social protection system, which has been achieving a cohesive society, or at least much more cohesive than if that system did not exist. And it must also be remembered that it was adopted with broad consensus that you, the People's Party, have been trying for a while to break up, without success at the moment. We're ready to maintain the social system we have to work enough for, and, if possible, to improve. That's where we'll be escorted. You've managed to join all the members of the legislature against your position, Mr Marot. Your merit. So we're on the side of the administration and the administration, and we're on the side of ease, protecting all the security of those who are to be used for that purpose. But your speech is unacceptable: To connect fraud with only those who are supported by the revenues. We're against stigmatizations, and you and your party hurt people who need these support very much. We are against the permanent stigmatization that the People's Party is making of the collective of RGI and PCV collectors. All technical means that improve the quality of service and relationship between the Administration and those administered, welcome be, but without any stigmatization, we insist. The implementation of the fingerprint we believe that in the future it can be a way of identifying us before the Administration, but we can and must take previous steps to ensure its proper functioning, before launching it to identify the persons perceptors of RGI, which, we cannot forget, is in its entirety a collective that deserves special protection from the Administration. We do not want to play your part, Mr Maroto, in making citizens believe that this group is especially cheating and that it commits fraud. Not by much repeating a lie becomes true. We have signed a compromise amendment with the Socialist Party, which we hope will obtain the majority support of the House and which has been distributed and read in its entirety by Mrs Sarasua. So, I leave this first part here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing to the non-correction teams, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u129	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. I like the compromise signed between the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, and I will vote in favour of it. Are you checking, Mr. Maroto, what's the problem? Are you aware, practical, of what problem you have created? Are you already in the reality you live in? Do you check what stage you've been making all these months? Do you know what the problem is? That you no longer have any credibility on this issue. The point is that you have poisoned the debate, and you have consciously done so by a handful of votes and because you have been campaigning for eight, nine, ten months. That's the problem. The problem is that we can no longer even discuss the issue, nor can we even propose certain initiatives to combat fraud in social aid, even if fraud is small. Even that is no longer possible, because you have polluted the debate and, of course, set fire to coexistence. Is this the stage you wanted? Possibly so. And these are the fruits that you bear: that the political parties in this Parliament do not even want to sign with you something similar to what the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group have signed. They don't even want to talk to you about income guarantee income. They don't even want to talk to you anymore, we don't want to talk to you already about this issue, because you have no credibility, because you have consciously set the debate on fire, by the way, by a handful of votes. And this is, therefore, the result. This is what you've achieved. I think that you, to regain credibility, that I don't know if at any point in your political career you had – frankly, I don't know if you had that credibility; I don't know, I don't know – to regain that credibility, what you should do is ask for forgiveness. To ask for public forgiveness for the barbarities that you have been saying all these months. All these months he's been burning down the cohabitation. Therefore, what you should do is ask for forgiveness, apologize and join, if you wish, the consensus of the other groups to work together and for the sake of coexistence. This is what you should do. During all these months he has made irresponsible, demagogic and populist statements, and yes, he has voluntarily promoted the stigmatization of certain groups whom he initially pointed out as responsible for the existing fraud. He has used exaggeration and even lies. The craziest political cynicism is what you've been employing all these months. You accused Algerians and Moroccans of not wanting to work and of living from social assistance. That's what he literally said. That is why we no longer believe what you can say today, no one believes you anymore, because we already know what you said before and what you proposed and what you intended. You said that some nationalities live from social assistance and have no interest in working. You and you volunteered to talk about mass immigration and entire colonies of immigrants. In these terms they expressed themselves, when you said to me, "Which, which, what has he said." All this is what you have been saying, all this is what you have been saying voluntarily. And instead of promoting these prejudices and making these statements, I believe that what every political representative should do is to promote integration and social cohesion, rather than break it. You have therefore set fire to coexistence, stigmatised certain immigrant groups, used racism as a political tool, Mr Maroto. In the twenty-first century, in the present-day Euskadi of 2015, it has used racism and xenophobia to obtain supposedly a few thousand votes. It's not worth winning an election like that, Mr. Maroto! It's not worth it! You have encouraged fear of the different, you have played dirty politically, and in that sense, Mr Maroto, the damage is already done, and it will surely take time to sew the seams of coexistence. I therefore believe that what you should do is ask for forgiveness and join the calm, rational and constructive debate with the rest of the groups in this Parliament. This is what you should do. But we can talk about fraud, Mr Maroto, and political corruption. You have pointed out, you have set some example and you have spoken of a few thousand euros disappointed. Do you know how much political corruption costs in Spain, according to a recent study by a university? Forty billion euros is the cost of political corruption in Spain, led by Spanish, indigenous people and citizens, and many of them members of the People's Party. Not a few billion euros, not three or four million euros, not: 40 billion euros is the cost of political corruption in Spain. And you are not known as a statement on the issue, nor is there any proposal to put an end to all those facts. At least I have not heard it from you either in this Parliament. Let's talk, Mr. Maroto, about the jets, let's talk about the tax fraudsters, let's talk about Barcenas, let's talk about the extras, let's talk about the Gürtel, let's talk about Bankia, let's talk about Caja Madrid, let's talk about the opaque cards, let's talk about Granados, let's talk about Rat, let's talk about Jaume Matas... Let's talk about so many others. Let us talk about those who have plundered the country over the past few years, let us talk about you, and let us also talk about political parties that have not moved a finger, but quite the contrary, to end political corruption. Let's talk about the political parties that have protected their corrupt. You could talk about all this, and you've never talked about this. He has never talked about the massive fraud that has occurred in recent times as a result of political corruption. He talks about social welfare fraud, for a handful of votes, insulting citizens and stigmatizing people who live with us and therefore belong to us. They're "we," in short. All this cannot be hidden, Mr Maroto, nor put under the carpet, but you, I say, do not talk about it or about those 40 billion euros that cost us political corruption in Spain. So, finally, Mr. Maroto, I almost... I didn't even think I'd intervene! I was only going to say that I voted in favour of the compromise and point. But I've seen you keep your speech, you're still in the campaign. I think the pre-election act I had today was supposed to be this one, right? But, finally, I believe that what you have to do is ask for forgiveness, acknowledge the mistakes, withdraw those statements that you have been making, and join the consensus, join the calm, quiet, constructive, positive debate about the GIR and what you want, but in positive, building something among all. Not making cheap demagogy, because the results are then what they are: the breakdown of coexistence and the confrontation between fellow citizens. And that is certainly very sad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u130	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Blanco, representing the EH team, has her word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u131	Thank you, ma'am. President, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank goodness the elections are coming in. Thank goodness this nightmare is almost over. We knew when this strategy started and when it would end. For the last few months, Mr Marot has brought his election campaign to the legislature and we have heard and suffered everything. In this very place we have witnessed how Mr. Maroto has not blushed by using data to his liking, by manipulating and deceiving vilely every time he has played his role as a flag in what he calls "the fight against fraud" in Lanbide. When we believed that something more Machiavellian could not be desired, oh surprise, it records this proposition not of law. And what did Mr Marot think of this time? To establish digital clues for the professions, to ensure incomes for the rent users only to recognize them. That is, in cases considered technical and legal, necessary. And why is Mr Marot asking for all this? On his own account, because public administrations are obliged to guarantee social policies, always acting in favor of those who really need them. Mr. Moroto, this invention is incredible. To begin with, this measure is useless, disseminatorous, and very expensive. What really matters to you is Lanbide, your function. And, what's worse, he cares very few about the people who use this service. It seems to you, because it says so in your justification, there are people who really need it. Look, in Euskal Herria Bildu we are clear that between us and ourselves there are people who need to come to Lanbide to benefit from the rights that by law correspond to them, and point. No exceptions. Who are those people who really need it? Are there people who don't really need it? How many people? What people do you mean? You do a screening again, pick those who bother you, because you can't vote, and try to get them out of the system. And all for a single purpose, as those who have preceded me have told him: to win votes. And in order to achieve its goal, it does not matter to face society, to break it, to face those who are going through the worst. Because here you say that you treat everyone equally, but in the media you have said what you have said. The poor against the poor, the shameless. You're using them again, Mr Maroto, to fight Professions and RGI people. You don't mention it again, deliberately, everything else that's around the profession and the users. You don't care about the situation of young people, the situation of women. You haven't registered in the last three years to collect DBE or RGI younger men from 18 years old, for example for their donation. Or have you ever asked about the state of the victims of the machista when they come near the profession? You've never asked or registered an initiative to interest us in the plot of work. And these were just examples. All this and much more is the profession, not only the concepts you use. If you want to speak of the working of the profession and of the purposes of life, of sincerity and seriousness, here we are. We're prepared to discuss the Basque Country with you. But stop manipulating and stop soiling what we have today. We and we are the first to end fraud, tax fraud, which accounts for 8.5% of gross domestic product. We also want to end political fraud. We want to go against all those people who steal in front of our noses and who use privileged information for their benefit. We want to see how the defrauders of suit and tie pay for their crimes, because those do cause tremendous damage to this society, because we are all being harmed by their actions. Not you, Mr. Maroto. You say that you want to end the fraud in the collection of social benefits, which accounts for 0.3% of the more than 130,000 recipients of GIR. And, where you say there's fraud, in many cases there's mismanagement. And with all this you have managed to put everyone against you. Society has risen and gone out into the street. Look, representatives of the Church have been revealed to him! He has even dared to recriminate a representative of Caritas because his words in a public act were not to his liking. To-day we may give a great deal of argument to leave the proposition you have brought us to nothing, because this other proposition, as well as this, has no meaning at all from the beginning to the end. But today EH Collectation's purpose is no more argument. Our purpose is to open the eyes of some of the people, that you have once more used the knowledge of the citizens to extend your lies, hypocrisy, and cynicism. The American people know that Mr Marot wants to end up with social rights and the protection system we have. I want everyone to know that Mr Marot is using a serious state of people to get no more than votes. Today we must make it clear that this is not the way to make a clean policy. Just opposite. The way you're doing this, Mr Marot, is shameful and filthy. As you have shown in other discussions, the other proposal is just as soon as the lamb is registered, when you tell the subject in the media, you show your leg, and the wolf comes to the tribe. Today we saw the wolf's teeth again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Passing the responses, Mr. Maroto, representing the American Basque Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u133	Yes, thank you, Madam President. With your permission, I'll reconnect the tablet. On this occasion, for those who alluded to or alluded to, to read the tweet that I have most often hung in recent months, the one that I have most often transferred to the questioner, to the point that it was published in the media. This is what I think, what I say, what I believe, what I carry in my heart and what I write. There are seven points: 1. The color of the skin or the accent with which you speak Spanish or Basque does no better or worse to anyone. Two. Immigrant is not equal to fraud. There are many people from other countries who want to work and integrate. They have all my support. Three. Abuse of social assistance is also committed by nationals. Such fraud must be pursued and avoided in the same way. 4. I call for the elimination of fraud and abuses recognised by all in the GIR. I don't ask you to delete the GIR. Five. I'm not raising any rights cuts. I demand that the money for abuse be devoted to expanding the coverage of those who need it. Six. Corruption in politics, including that of the People's Party, or tax fraud, disgust me, just like or more than social aid fraud. 7. Denying published official data on abuses, or saying "no and point" – as the president of the PNV does – to change the law of GIR generates frustration and tension. I can write it thirty thousand times, I can't make it any clearer. With regard to today's issue, of course we are asking that, if the fingerprint is introduced, this fingerprint be for everyone, for all the recipients of the GIR, as it can be introduced, because technically it has its difficulties. Let's see, but what about the DNI? But is the DNI just for some, with the fingerprint on it? It's for everyone! Or is it that someone has thought that someone could pose a DNI only with fingerprint for some (for men, for brunettes, for those under 40...)? It's for everyone! And someone, all of you, seventy-five, when you went to DNI dependencies and placed your fingerprint, did any of you feel stigmatized? Have they felt stigmatized? Were you saying, "You're supposed to be a thief and we're going to have your footprint here just in case," or did you recognize that it was just a system to authenticate everyone? I'm just talking about it. That's all. It is therefore clear that new technology systems must be incorporated to improve public administration systems, so that, if it allows the identification of civil servants upon entering a unit, why will it not be possible to identify anyone, whoever this is, a collector in the RGI in Lanbide? But aren't we detecting that there are problems of a person-various identities? Aren't we saying that it doesn't matter who the one who has in one person several identities? I don't care if it's from Nigeria, Algeria or Muskiz. I don't care! That what I intend to do is to avoid what we all know happens. All right, all right. Therefore, the same day that new cases are being discovered of citizens falsifying passports to collect 100,000 euros of everyone's money, the same day I'm asking you what the solution is, which is the digital signature (i.e., a person-one identity), you tell me that what I propose is incendiary and that you will vote against. Well, I can't explain it any more clearly. Let every citizen draw his own conclusion. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u134	Thank you, Mr Marot. Basque Socialists represent the group, Lady Sarasa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u135	Mr. Maroto, do you recognize this signature? It's yours. I will read the proposal: "The Basque Parliament urges the Employment and Social Policy Council to start the implementation of Lanbide's fingerprint, as a system of recognition of users of GIR in cases where it is technically and legally considered necessary, with the aim of improving the service offered". You don't ask for the fingerprint for all people! No, no, no, no! And it also makes a preliminary justification. Look, Mr. Maroto, you're like that gentleman who was on the highway and suddenly hears news on the radio that a driver is going the other way, and the gentleman says, "One? But it's thousands!". Well, it doesn't matter to you. You are acting as a ram of the People's Party, and you are going against social services, because you really don't like them. You don't like them, Mr. Maroto. In this Parliament..., that you were not, but it would have been good if you had been in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy, when very relevant people who have been working on social policies for years, such as Mr Luis Sanzo, who is responsible for the statistical area of the Department of Employment and Social Policy; Mr Joseba Zalacain, Director of the Documentation and Studies Centre SIIS of the Eguía Careaga Foundation; Felix Arrieta and Iñigo Calvo, professors of the University of Deusto, and representatives of the Official College of Social Work of Álava, and all of them put into value the Basque social protection system, spoke about their reversal in the Basque economy in a very positive way, and they agreed that there is no significant level of fraud, because since its inception it has been subject to a high level of control. However, they did focus on the high tax fraud, which you are not talking about. Meanwhile, you have not stopped identifying certain groups with social fraud, questioning over and over again the information provided by the Department of Employment and Social Policy. And that's why he repeatedly asks for information. At the same time, you as mayor deliberately hid memoirs from 2012 and 2013 pertaining to social assistance, Mr Maroto. So on the one hand we have the Parliamentarian Maroto, who asks the Basque Government for data over and over again, and on the other hand, the Mayor Maroto, who does not bring a single data to the opposition groups in the City Hall of Vitoria-Gasteiz. That is why, on a proposal from the Socialist Group, a committee of inquiry on social aid was set up in the City of Vitoria, and important experts in social services in the Basque Country have appeared in that committee. And I can tell you, Mr. Maroto, some of the people who have attended: doctors in anthropology, spokesmen of several NGOs, Caritas, EAPN, priests who work on the street with those who pass it the worst, the former mayor José Ángel Cuerda, who coordinated the transfer of Lanbide... And they all raised their voice against you. And I have to tell you one thing, and I will finish with it: the professionals and technicians of the social services of the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz have shown that you are making an incendiary, irresponsible and denigrating speech; a speech full of errors and distortions. And all these are the people who are going in the opposite direction to the one you're going. And the logical thing would be for you to reflect and think that the logical thing is that in this Parliament we are discussing the people who are going through the worst and what are the needs that are not covered. And, of course, if we have to make adjustments in the social protection system, let us make them, but with a calm and calm debate, not burning, because that is not credible. And you have shown here today that you are doing your own electoral campaign, because you have opened your debate with a news that, by the way, demonstrates police work and that controls are being carried out. And I repeat again, the crimes belong to people with names and surnames, not to collectives or organizations, not even to people of the same color, as you have said. The crimes are of the people, and that is why you, who enter into contradictions in what you have said here today, cannot put into a whole, because a person commits a fraud, a fiscal crime, a extortion, a murder. Because that's called es-tig-ma-ti-zar, Mr. Maroto.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u136	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u137	Thank you again, Mrs. President. You've changed your tone, Mr. Maroto. He said he came in a conciliatory attitude, but – I think another representative has told him – he seemed to me to be a wolf with lamb skin in this case. And the truth that does not deserve any credibility his speech, but for his own facts and attitudes in the past. They have for ten months, since June or July of last year, stigmatizing the collective of collectors and perceptors of RGI, and the truth that the proximity of municipal elections now makes us much doubt their intentions. We believe that it is doing so, as other representatives have said, all by a handful of votes. We find empty words, in which I really don't believe. They don't believe, because that's not what they've been manifesting. And that at this point he changed course, talking about he didn't care about his provenance, but he repeated it a few times, and then he told us about the eight Basque surnames... The truth is that this change of course, if it's not because we have elections in less than a month, I don't think anyone understands it. It seems to us zero seriousness, zero sincerity, zero credibility. And speaking of elections, I will tell you, Mr Maroto, that Gasteiz, who had been an example of solidarity, of cohesion, of a very solidarity city, and had been known by all and all for that solidarity, and recognized for that, has become in the mouth of society, of all, on the contrary: for the xenophobic and racist environment that has been created, driven by totally irresponsible speeches, which have been repeating and repeating in the last ten months. Look, Mr. Maroto, in our opinion you are going to leave the City Hall of Gasteiz with the bucket of having fractured Victorian society, of having broken the coexistence. And not only do we say this: we have coincided with all the people who have intervened in this debate. And with that speech contrary to the solidarity that, I insist, is that which had been characterizing this city of Gasteiz, and we really regret that by a handful of votes you have broken all that solidarity and all that cohesion, and even that consensus that there was in favour of the protection system that we had and that we continue to have in Euskadi, and that they are striving to break. And I also agree when we are talking about joining the calm and calm debate. We do not say that today; we have been saying this in many of the debates we have had on this subject. But we think it should be outside the electoral period, because we don't think the positions in this case are sincere, be quiet, because everyone is here trying to find a handful of votes. Debate yes, we can talk about anything (we have said it: to improve, to avoid fraud, which, we insist, is tiny, and the data there say it), but this whole debate has to take place outside the electoral period. And the truth is, it's a shame the speech you've been using for these ten months, because it doesn't favor this city or the people who live in it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Mr. Maneiro... he must not speak. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u139	Thanks again. I was wrong, the wolf didn't show up today, Mr Maroto changed his speech. Maybe the strategy you've been using didn't give you the results you expected? He comes here and tells us they're all the same, but don't back off. Don't back off! If you put forward this non-law proposal, and that of a few days you come out in the press talking, accusing a particular collective ("Cases like the Pakistani plot will be avoided")! What are we talking about? What a motorcycle he wants to sell us! He's already been told about his non-law proposal. It is that in the justification also says that "Lanbide has recently had some difficulties in tracking the identity of some recipients of GIR". Don't fool us, we know where he's going! You've said a lot of things, but sometimes what you're not saying is more important than what you say. The thesis you use when you talk about Lanbide, about social rights, about Gasteiztarra society, is left to you in nothing, because you know better than anyone that there is an Ikuspegi report (that is to say that it has been kept in a drawer), a report that was commissioned by the City of Gasteiz, which has the results since last year, since December last year, and which has been silent, however much the opposition groups have asked for it. And why did you shut up? Why didn't you talk about that report? Because that report speaks of the need to combat false stereotypes, because there are data that support the opposite. Three hundred pages that recommend working for social cohesion. Therefore, although I have told you on more than one occasion, your proposal, your debate, is called into question. I have to tell you again today. Now we want to explain because we haven't done it in the first round, because we don't have to protect the media that you signed. We haven't discussed the improvement of the profession in this gathering today, we haven't talked seriously and honestly about it. Today, a residual party, as we said in the first intervention, has again used this Parliament to start its electoral campaign, and has done so, as we are used to, undermining social rights. Another spokesman said that there are people who stay out of the system. Sure! But how people are going to approach Lanbide, how they are going to approach a basic social service, if they have such a cross on their foreheads! Like, with everything they're hearing on the street! That's what you're getting. That is why today we are not voting in favour, of course, of the original proposal or of the agreement reached here. Because coming from whom the initial proposal comes, being on the dates on which we are, then, as you will understand, this does not deserve us any credibility. And we haven't been serious about Lanbide, we haven't been serious about the problem in Lanbide, we haven't been serious about expanding social coverage, and we're not going to get into this game. That's why we're going to vote against it. For us, Mr Marot, this is stupid, and this is our answer: Our greatest contempt for this folly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of another proposal like the Basque Potula group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 67; the votes are 68; the supporters are 7; the opponents are 61; white, 0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u141	Original text of the Polula Party has not been accepted. We'll next vote for the middle-term correction signed by the Basque Socialists and by the Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 67; the votes are 68; the supporters are 43; the opponents are 18; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 7.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u142	The central correction has been approved. The seventh point on the theme list: "Euscal Socialists made the same proposal as the legislatures, concerning the temporary contract of fraud. Discipline and final resolution. The man who made the proposal is next to the group. Mr. Ichaso, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let's go, lehendakari. I am going to be excused, ladies and gentlemen, because I too am going to talk about fraud, and I hope that it will not be repetitive or redundant. Because the fraud we intend to talk about at this time is a massive fraud, a fraud that constitutes the shield to a whole system of exploitation. And we're talking about temporary hiring fraud. In general, there are frauds in all employment contracts, in commercial contracts that hide false self-employed people, I also mean part-time contracts that hide full-time jobs..., but our initiative today talks about temporary contracts. In Euskadi, nine out of ten contracts currently being concluded are temporary. The abuse of temporary recruitment is an undeniable fact; all they have to do is go online and look for "fraudful employment," and they will see the hundreds of thousands of entries there. On the other hand, the fact that we have reached a number of groups in this matter without further effort indicates that there is this awareness that temporary recruitment clearly hides fraudulent situations. Although the data I have do not agree with me, it is said that in Spain more than 10 million illegal hours are spent a week, of which 55% do not pay. In Euskadi, which has a rate of temporality lower than the Spanish average, however we are on the line in converting the temporary contracts into indefinite. Therefore, these types of contracts, which can be of work or of a given service, of work in practices for training, of relief, of interinity, even the scholarships are also another form of fraudulent recruitment..., affect not only the enterprises, also the public administration. And it is important that we take this into account, because, of course, the initiative speaks above all of empowering the Labour Inspectorate, but the Labour Inspectorate must also take into account that these situations sometimes occur in the public administration more often than desired. Tomorrow is May 1st, Workers' Day, in which workers claim, in addition to their right to work, the right to work in decent conditions, and today, on the eve of that date, we have an important agreement that should show the citizens that the institutions are really handed over and applied to the task of effectively ending this scourge of fraud in employment. That support that we are going to give to this transaction today, on the other hand, indicates that there is indeed that awareness, as I say, that there is to a large extent a fraud in recruitment. We are of course able to discuss in Parliament all the issues, all the issues that the groups want to raise, and today in the morning, among others, we were discussing the fates of the country in a discussion that seemed more like galgos or punchos, while the dogs of unemployment, precariousness and also of recruitment fraud are already rabidly biting at our society. And that is why we bring this initiative, to talk about concrete things and concrete action, Mr Lehendakari. At the time the Socialists have already proposed (not long ago, a couple of months ago) an initiative also to give reinforcements to the Labour Inspectorate. The call hasn't come out yet. There was also a commitment from the previous Labour Adviser, who talked about increasing even the places, the posts in the inspection. That still, today, hasn't come out either. We understand that it is important, and the purpose of the agreement speaks in those terms, to strengthen the body of labour inspectors to remedy, to control, to look at all this type of fraudulent recruitment. We see that the steps that have been taken so far are not visible, and we understand that, although the agreement speaks for three months, we urge the Government to take this kind of political action as quickly as possible. Because, otherwise, we really walk towards a fractured Euskadi, no longer between those who have work and those who do not, but with those who, even having it, really do not do so under the minimally dignified conditions. And of course, just as today's headlines were talking about the fact that economic take-off in this year seems to be important, we Socialists have to say that growth and wealth cannot be posed on conditions of exploitation. Because they are not merely violations of the social order, as it is called legally, is that they are truly crimes, they are truly conditions of exploitation in which these types of contracts are made up. Therefore, we understand that we must put our hands to work. We welcome the agreement reached with the other groups. I regret that Mr Maneiro, from UPyD, did not sign the transaction, not for anything other than because we really believe it is an easy agreement to adopt, and we understand that it would have given him greater brilliance. I understand that in any case, perhaps... at least I appeal to your sense of responsibility to support this transaction. In any case, today in the institutions, tomorrow on the street, the socialists are going to claim the right of workers to work in decent conditions. This is a subject that would give a lot of self, give a lot of self and one could talk about the thousand ways in which one is disappointed in employment, but surely in the head of all of us there is more than one example. So, I'm not going to extend into that case. But it is a fact that the groups present here share in every way. That is why we welcome the agreement reached, and we hope that it will be translated into concrete action by the Government to put an end to and remedy this situation. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u144	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, Mrs. Ruiz, representing the Basque Potula Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u145	Yes, thank you, President. In our case, since we received the initiative, it seemed to us that it was more than reasonable, and the amendment we tabled was only a matter of nuances, because speaking in the "campaign" proposal seemed to imply that it was temporary. A campaign, such as the rent campaign or any other campaign, has a beginning and an end, and it seemed to us that, beyond something limited in time, the measures to be taken could be extended. But, well, in any case, campaigning is fine with us. We believe that the precariousness of employment must be avoided at all costs, and, of course, with fraudulent temporary recruitment, employment is precarious, and so, well-measured, campaigning too, but we would not want it to be limited only to a time and it could have continuity, and the resources and means set up to deal with that control not to be limited in a time, but to be constant. But, in any case, the initiative seemed good to us from the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Missto-UPyD, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u147	Thank you, President. Indeed, I have not finally signed the transactional, I keep alive for the moment the amendment of the whole, which is a very good amendment, is very well drafted, raises interesting things, and I think it is more complete than the transactional that you have signed. But in any case, I have no strength to defend you at this hour of plenary. I do not have the strength to defend it, nor do I have the strength, above all, to convince you of the goodness of my amendment. And since there is a broad agreement and that broad agreement that you have signed, it can be said that it is also well, I will finally vote on the compromise, and so I give more clarity to the consensus and to the adoption of that initiative. And in this way we also postpone for a better occasion the debate on what we proposed in our amendment, the single indefinite contract, which I think is a good proposal but would need more strength to defend it, calmer, more time, and perhaps in another plenary we could discuss the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u148	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Zulaika, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u149	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. The Prefect is becoming more and more extensive in every department, either in private or in public, in most sectors, and is an evil which affects him at every age, unfortunately is a disease which is taking too much notice of. The Prefect especially affects young men and women, who are the most vulnerable person in the crisis. It's connected to the subject today, with the temporary contraction of work, the temporary rate for youth is higher than 40%, and from the new contracts that make to the young ones, it's 95% temporary contracts. And last date, almost 4% of the temporary contracts are shorter than the ones in the year. Hence the question of instability is added to those who work in high laboring rates. Though it's hard to find a job when they find it, it's only a few months' work contracts. So they're still in a problem of instability. There are also women who suffer severely from the trial. Besides, women, apart from their provisionalness, receive also another severe evil, their time. These are the 83% of temporary contracts. Not because we want to work less, but because women are the ones who care about the care for the care of care. As a result, even if you've worked more and paid for the payless work, you've paid less for it, you've got to collect it. At the time when this problem is to calculate their pension, it has a direct influence, and therefore, shortly ago, EH Collecte introduced an initiative to demand a change of formulas for the exchange of pensions: The day you worked with your work to be like a cocktail day. Unfortunately, this request did not leave. To have a job today doesn't mean that you have a chance to stay or give up. Nine out of ten, it's a temporary contract. But behind this provisionalness, as was said in the original initiative, there are often false actions; False autonomists, the practice of fraud which is being too long for many economic activities, and which affects many young men. A lot of businessmans, instead of doing a job-contradiction, require autonomism, and, in most cases, this autonomous autonomous is a single customer, the company has no duty to the working man, and at any moment the worker is left in the street without any right, no fines, no job, no unemployment, no rights in the street. The concession of temporary contracts, a temporary contract behind another. How long? To drop the contracts during the holidays, not to pay for the vacation, not to hire another employee. These practices are, unfortunately, only a few kinds of fraud practice, but we believe that our practice is frequent. It is necessary with provisionalness, with the preparation in general, and with precise fraud contract, that it may end. And in that challenge, you have to be an active role, you have to put all the resources you need. We discussed this session, as the Sea has said, an initiative on the power of a work-view. And this discussion did not come out of the number of workers that EH Collect demanded to increase. Today we maintain that more workers are required in the study of work, in order to make sure that the rules of work are fulfilled, in order to ensure worthy conditions of work. We hire three new visions, but we think we need to hire more. That's real investment in every way. We're sure that the budget would come down, that there would be less work accidents, and that poverty would come down too. And it must be the end of the government with the preparation, the industry, and poverty. Although agreed with the principal object of the original initiative, we thought it important to make two shades and so we reviewed our corrections. On the one hand, the workers with temporary contracts have the risk of being more industrious, not only because of the prevarication, but because they are less organised in the prevention. Therefore, in addition to the fact that the contract is a fraud or not a view of it, the security of the work seems important to us also. And that's what we're asking for in our corrections. On the other hand, we thought it was going to take a two-month period. We've finally agreed to do it in three months. We hope that's really the way it is. We've reached a middle line and we're hoping that the middle line will work out. We hope to collect EH today, to fill up the other proposal as you will here, to put your ears on that piece of work, and set you up for the long-standing campaign, planned, determined by specific ends, and determine how the pursuit of ends will be followed, in order to give a direct measure, and of course by putting on all the necessary means. We know that with this initiative it won't end with the temporary. However, we hope that the rate of provisionalness is a step down too high. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Adarz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u151	Thank you, ma'am. President, members of the legislature, good afternoon. This initiative was brought to us by Mr Itxaso concerned about the reflection of fraudulent practices that sometimes occur within temporary recruitment. It's logical to worry. As we were able to hear yesterday in the government's control session at the Congress of Deputies, the State's temporaryity rate is 23.6%, and part-time employment is 16.3. In his justification, Mr.Itxaso tells us, and I quote, "Betting on temporality and precariousness is simply nefarious." From our parliamentary group we share this appointment. From the government of the Lehendakari Urkullu, as has always been done from the Basque Nationalist Party, one fights day by day against precariousness and temporality, and so it is firmly committed to job stability and decent working conditions, which are undoubtedly the basis of social cohesion and common progress. I suppose you, Mr Itxaso – it is my assumption – present this initiative in this House in line with that campaign which some of your media have called "the PSOE's labour offensive", whose exit gun was yesterday in Congress with Mr Sánchez's question to Mr Rajoy on inequality in working conditions, and will continue, as announced, with initiatives chained by Mr Simancas, Mrs González Veracruz, etc. In any case, it focuses its non-law proposal on the Government's labour inspection activity, particularly in the area of fraudulent temporary recruitment. You, Mr Itxaso, are aware of a very important materialization of this Basque Government's commitment to job stability and decent working conditions, as are the actions that have been carried out since the Labour Inspectorate. You, Mr Itxaso, are aware that work inspection activities are carried out on a regular basis and as a matter of priority in the field of temporary recruitment. In the last few days we have been able to discuss in full, as mentioned above, with regard to the inspection. Without going back any further, Mr Aburto told us on 1 December last about specific reinforcements of the inspection, based on two types of measures: on the one hand, measures to strengthen the staff, and on the other, measures to strengthen the activity. We have already been able to debate extensively at the plenary session on 19 February, as you have mentioned. Without going into details about these measures, I believe that they are perfectly summarized by Mr Toña in the recent monitoring plenary last Friday at Mr Maneiro's inquiry, concerning the degree of development of the proposals of last November's monograph. This inquiry concerned in particular three of the fifty-five motions for resolutions; one of these three, resolution No. 8, referred to the inspection. In his reply, the adviser recalled that the fight against precariousness and labour exploitation in all areas in which it takes place is a priority objective of this Government. To achieve this objective, the Labour Inspectorate is a fundamental tool, which includes monitoring and monitoring of working conditions, combating irregular employment, and ensuring the quality of employment set out in the regulations. He also pointed out that there was a staff of women officials who, in terms of job coverage, were part of the system of State Labour and Social Security Inspection, which made decisions in this area conditional. However, in order to improve the work of the inspection in response to Parliament's demand, an effective effort has been made and three inspectors have been incorporated to strengthen territorial inspections. The invitation to tender for State-level transfers is also pending, which will cover the remaining vacancies. In addition, a project has been initiated involving an increase of six new places of inspectors, which will allow for a better vertebration of the structure in order to develop the functions of control and monitoring of labour relations. As regards the measures to strengthen the activity of the inspection, which would be the most subject of the question we are dealing with today, I know, because this House has been informed that measures have been taken to increase the planned interventions, within a coherent formulation of a strategy for monitoring compliance with labour standards. In addition, specific campaigns have been designed and implemented within the poverty reduction strategy, such as the detection of temporary recruitment fraud and wage compliance. This reinforcement plan (this reinforcement plan) was already being made in advance of the motion for a resolution adopted at the plenary session on poverty. In other words, the Labour Inspectorate's actions are carried out, as it pointed out earlier, with regularity and as a priority in the field of temporary recruitment. That is why we are submitting an amendment to the original text urging the Government to continue... Our amendment called on the Government to continue, to continue the work already under way, to intensify further the inspection work. And, in this regard, whenever this Government is urged to do something that it is already doing, its initiative will obviously count on the support of our group. The work of the Labour Inspectorate is undoubtedly a tool in the fight against fraudulent temporary contracts, but we have missed your approach, Mr Itxaso, referring to two other essential issues in this fight. On the one hand, regulatory change. You are aware that regulatory change is the first line of attack in the fight against fraud in temporary contracts. You know it's unfair to load the tapes over the inspection without having things sorted up, in Madrid. In fact, his party has presented today a new simplified work model in three contracts: indefinite, temporary and training. If you have a chance to implement that model, we hope you will do so, that you will implement it. They have once had the opportunity and have not, and we hope that it will not happen to them like the People's Party, which also announced simplification on this issue and, however, in the labour reform, the types of contract went from four to five. In our view, simplification in principle is good, but what is really important is the content, the definition of each type. As an example, issues such as the maximum duration of temporary recruitment time are essential in today's topic. You will tell me that this issue is not the subject of debate in this House, but, in our view, it would have been fair to have taken this issue up at least in the supporting part of your initiative. For example, Mr Maneiro has done so, not in the supporting part in this case, but in the first of his operative paragraphs, defending his commitment to the single contract. This is a question that we do not share for short, but as a methodology it seems appropriate to us. We have also missed, or missed in its day, when we look at its initiative, in its initial text, the reference to job creators. While the institutions must create the necessary conditions for the development of employment, it is primarily the enterprises that create it, and it is therefore essential to encourage business representatives to increase undefined recruitments, because of the greater stability that they give both businesses themselves and workers and society as a whole. That is why the second part of our amendment, which has been included in the final text after the previous talks, we consider that it substantially improves that initial text. I think it is important, in conclusion, to stress the negotiating process we have made on this issue, which has ended with a high degree of consensus around the text we have had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u152	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing on the answers, Mr. Ichaso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u153	Well, it was not intended to intervene, because from the broad agreement reached I thought it was idle to add anything else. However, Mr Aiartza has made several appeals to me, and that, in fact, forces me to go down somehow. You say the change of regulations. No! No! When we talk about contracts in law fraud we talk about in law fraud of the regulations in force. That the regulations have to be changed, I fully share that; above all, everything that has to do with the 2012 labour reform has to be changed. But we are talking about fraud in the constant recruitment of the positive law, the existing law, which, in short, is already quite restrictive from the point of view of workers' law, but it is nevertheless obvious, it is palpable, and we have all agreed on that idea that it is underlying, in much of that temporary recruitment, which is already the majority in the whole new recruitment, which is abusive for many reasons. And I said that I was not going to go into the casuistic because, in fact, you asked me or asked me to have said more in the justification, or to have broadened the content of the initiative, but, well, I understood that the object, the general purpose of the initiative was clear, and it was not a question of making a whole essay or a monograph. That's what I have to tell you. As far as the Government is concerned, I always say the same thing: I have no doubt, that is to say, I assume that the Government is working. But what is unquestionable is that previous agreements on strengthening the body of labour inspectors, including the previous adviser's promise to strengthen the body of instructors, to equip it, I believe that two more for each territory, up to a total of six, is that this has not yet been done, and the vacancies remain unfulfilled. Therefore, what I want to say, Mr Aiartza, is that, beyond the speeches, beyond the approaches, what we want to say is that this is translated into concrete action and materialised. I do not know how long it may take the Government and its legal services to take out a public offer of employment to fill those vacancies and additional posts that they want to fill, but we understand that, in the meantime, these things are happening, speeches alone do not solve anything. And to appeal that the Government has been working, yes, it is, but it has not been possible to materialize this issue in particular. With regard to the temporary coincidence between this initiative and what the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party put forward yesterday, I must say that I have to drink all this doctrine from now on, because I do not follow his agenda or, let us say, his work every day. These initiatives are registered some time in advance; that they have coincided on this date I think it has more to do with the fact that tomorrow is 1 May, an important date for the world of work, than with the fact that Pedro Sánchez yesterday had an intervention in the Congress of Deputies. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u154	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs. Ruiz... won't speak a word. Maneiro won't speak either. Mrs. Zulaika won't say a word. And not even Mr. Akiantz. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists, the Basque Populars, the EH Collectors, and the middle-direction signed by the Eubertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 66; the votes are 67; the supporters are 67; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; Absence is 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-30.u155	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. Since the theme list has finished, the whole meeting ends. The meeting ended at 6 p.m.
