ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the staff of the staff, Javier Carro Iglesias of the Eubertians, made to the head of the economics and contestations, about the mythical endurance of the Administration." Mr. Carroll, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President. Chief of Tap. Recently, the Governing Council has adopted a new Energy Sustainability Decree for implementation in government buildings. A decree that according to the Department of Economic Development and Competitiveness is contextualized in the Government's commitment to energy efficiency and saving policies, and with which it intends to lead actions that can be extended to the whole of the Administration's buildings. Tapia salilburua, what measures will be taken to improve energy sustainability in the administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u2	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. In reply, Mrs. Tapia's got a word that's a New Year's Representative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. Egia da, Caro jauna, Euskadin Energia Jasangarriaren Dekretua indarrean dakkagu dagoeneko, éta gure Administraziãoan energia kontsumoa zaindu nahi dugulako egin dugu. Erabateko menpekotasuna daukagu energy ikuspuntutik, eta gizartearen eta ekonomiaren ereduak kontsumo intentsiboa eskatzen dute. Therefore, the rational use of energy is of increasing importance at the moment, because of the energy cost, the economic cost to society and all the investments we need to make, but above all because of the environmental cost that may be assuming at the moment in terms of the air pollutants that may be generating. Therefore, energy sustainability, being an important vector, one of the main policies of the European Union, which through its directives imposes obligations on Member States in this type of action, in energy efficiency and in renewable energy, we must transpose or these regulations must be transposed. In this respect, Brussels has just sent a few days ago to the Spanish Government for not doing so, and in our case, of course, we do not want to engage in this action, eta horixe da egin duguna, Europaren agiduarekin bat eginez euskal Administrazioneren jarduna eredugarria izan dadin dekretu hau onartu dugu. This is the way, we started it long ago, we've been helping the Renove plan...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u4	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u5	Between hands we have a particular point of importance for the future, and because we believe that this is the competitiveness of the economy, and from the point of view of well-being, we must necessarily continue the efficient and effective energy consumption. This decree will apply in all departments of the public administration, its entities and its public societies, Basque public administration at the outset, i.e. the entities and entities that depend on the Basque Government, and we aim to reduce energy consumption in buildings and installations, and also in the mobile park, in the fleet of vehicles, by 25% over the next 10 years. Taking this type of action into account, we intend to carry out actions, measures, among other things, linked to a commitment for the use of energy from renewable sources, that all buildings have within a maximum of three years an energy audit, that we renew products that have high energy efficiency and that in the workplaces with more than 100 employees we have a transport plan that analyzes costs and impacts on the transfers of the people employed. These are some of the examples that we intend to carry out, in addition to all the activities dedicated to what is rehabilitation of buildings and implementation of efficient lighting. These are plans to improve, in short, more than 800 buildings owned by the Basque Government, and the investments associated with this decree are close to 90 million euros, which will bring an energy saving of 200 million euros. These are the forecasts we made, I insist, between 2015 and 2025. It is another step in the Basque energy policy aimed at ensuring future sustainability in energy consumption. We will therefore take action on sustainability and on renewable energy. So this will be what we're going to start from now on. And it doesn't end here, we've got the law running, we've got no trial, and we hope to get it back here as soon as possible, and we're not just in the Eukong houses, but in the whole administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, made by the members of the Cianova Alonso EH gathering party to the president for training exercises on the use of the Basque Land which the military organization has made. " Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u7	Hello. Good morning, everyone. The military OTAN organization is exercising the greatest training exercises in Europe which it has ever done for a long time. In these exercises which are called Trident Juncture, 36,000 of the 30 people will be part of it. Unfortunately, we are also suffering the effects of these operations in the land of Esscala: Although in the natural camp of the Bardees the park and the biosfer reserve are appointed, there are armed of all kinds of halceny, and hundreds of soldiers and vehicles have landed to take part in the port of the Holy Sea. During these days, we've seen a long line of military vehicles crossing our roads, which have sometimes caused traffic problems. We believe that these exercises are an illustration of an ideology and practice which promotes the policy of war. They feed militaryism rather than peace and mutual life. They damage our natural environments, and, moreover, in our financial situation, waste money is unacceptable, which they pay even for our taxes. All this is taking place in the country where the long and exemplary struggle against the troops was fought by the instigation, which left us a great collective antimilitary heritage. And, above all, in 1986, he said no to ONAN. So we ask Mr. President the following question: The military TAN institution in the Basque Country, considering that the movement of troops and training in the company of eucalyptics break the will of the general majority, has MUDA committed a complaint or a complaint against the established institutions in question? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u8	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. Mr. Casanova, the OTAN organization has not conducted any training exercises in our compatriot. It is true that those who landed at the port of the Holy Scripture, and passed by our Ergoi, would have been the same by Heaven. It is true, too, that they had the direction of the edge to make that journey until they came out of our own community. There were movements of the troops, but only on the highway, and he turned the edgelines to avoid any traffic. I have repeated several times that the edge is an integrated police, and that it will complete all its powers, and that it must direct the unusual thing to carry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u11	Maybe not in our community, no maneuvers, but in our country. And it is clear that your inspiration is by no means your own, whether you consider the Basque Country or do not feel it as they do in our own country. We have done these exercises for us in the Basque Country, even though in the Renaissance only this corridor has been carried out. It is clear that you do not see yourself as the lehendakari of a sovereign country, not even in dreams. The presence of foreign troops in any country is always a cause for concern of its leaders, and more so if it is an unwanted presence; we would even say that, in legal terms, it is considered a casus belli. And I'm not asking, of course, for us to declare war on NATO; that's what I think they did in Lepe, isn't it? Obviously, not in those terms; but in terms of raising a complaint about what this organization represents in the international political landscape, about the rejection generated by this organization in the majority of Basque society and about the rejection that should generate us to use our territory, whether for the realization of maneuvers, or for the carrying out of a transit towards those maneuvers. When we have first-class humanitarian crises in Europe, when we are seeing the inability of the leaders of this continent to articulate a dignified and up-to-date response to the circumstances for the hundreds of thousands of refugees who are collapsing at the borders, who are now considering wasting public resources in this type of war game, we find it absolutely deceivable and denouncing. And we believe that a lehendakari aware of the feeling of rejection of this military institution and the geopolitical dynamics that sustains, the dynamics of aggression, the dynamics of sustaining very specific interests, which are the interests of the United States, a lehendakari aware that the majority of Basque society does not want, does not share the objectives of this organization, should raise its voice. I should ask you not to use our territory as a place of training, not even as a place of transit. Members of the internationalist collective Askapena are currently being tried for denouncing NATO imperialism. Eta neither hemen, tribuna honetatik, beraiekin beat oihukatzen dut, Yankee go man! Spanish Army, go home!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u12	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. You see, Mr. Casanova, it's not good to say something about it and say something against youth. It is no good to hide it, though afterwards to say of the youth that I do not regard it as the sovereignty of the people. Well, you'll see where you want to play in this speech. You, however, confuse the military organization, the movements of the troops, and the practice of training. You're confusing traffic service and unusual transports. But you get mixed up and confused, you forget what's important and important. It's not in our country, and you'll have to admit it, there's no military exercise in our partnership. And what you're planning on me is that a complaint should appear to me, and I'm supposed to say to you, in spite of my responsibility as president, that no military exercise has been organized, that it has not been realized. It happens every week. The edge receives a request, and fulfils its function, in this case too. And again, because the police are integrated, and they need to organize an unusual transport. Like any other unusual transport, even if there were troops. I, too, may be opposed to war and violence, Mr. Casanova, for I am one of the polite consciences of war, if you don't know it. So we can talk about war and things like that, well, if we want to, but at least I'm as good as you, one of the things I can be against war and violence. But I don't agree, and I won't take part in the exaggerated use you wish to make. In short, no military manoeuvres have been carried out in our Community, there has simply been a road trip of a convoy. The Ertzaintza was informed, as is mandatory, and provided the service that corresponds to it, entering through Santurtzi. We could also talk about the negotiations in which I participated for the governability of municipalities in Bizkaia, in the year 95, and the conception that the abertzale left had of the superport works as well, and what they could be for. And, in any case, I reiterate once again that the Ertzaintza is an integral police force and that we will always act from this point of view, taking into account all the competences that correspond to us. You are in your right to take advantage of the passage of this convoy to make an allegation against NATO, against wars, against arms, against violence. That's fine with me. But, as you will understand, Mr Casanova, this allegation goes beyond the limits of this full control of the Government and its actions, and, in any case, of what is my responsibility as a lehendakari. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, that Michael Unzalu Hermosa, a member of the Basque Socialists, made to the chief of education, language, politics, and Cultuate, was to interrupt the collective negotiations of EIBn." Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Sociists don't want this Chamber to apply the terms of the collective negotiation of EIB. That's for the management and the workers' representatives. What concerns us is that the bridges between the parties have fallen. The management continues to hold a person in charge of human resources whose resignation this Parliament requested in February for the unfortunate management that caused the first collective dismissal in a public enterprise. Then came new strikes, confirmation of the decapitalization of the public service, a drop in hearings, and all this, in the midst of the inhibition of the Basque Government. Management does not hide its concern about the difficult audiovisual scenario it faces, but does not take efficient measures to reverse the gradual deterioration it suffers in all areas of management. On the contrary, it only aims to consolidate this management with a budget that continues to bet on the external side and shows very little confidence with the entity's own workers. This scenario, logically, does not allow agreement between the parties involved, both in the labour and professional aspects. The Socialists have been denouncing many aspects of management in EITB and we are not happy that we were right when we were predicting the conflict that was looming. We have long considered that this leadership is not responding adequately to the challenges it faces. That is why, in his day, we asked for his resignation. As the Government ignored the parliamentary mandate, we believe that it is he who must assume absolute responsibility for the situation in EITB. That is why, Madam Counsellor, we ask you what steps you think the EITB management should take to channel human resources management.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u16	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. In reply, Mrs. Uriart, who's a local representative, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u17	The President of the legislature, the President, the chief of the Department, the members of the legislature, good day. Mr Unzalu, before answering your question, I must point out one of your statements. You say that what was a problem on the radio has become a labor problem of the whole entity. In this respect, I would like to point out that the Eusko Irratia works council is precisely the one that has been demarcated from the communiqué issued. The less, the more significant. This Government is aware of the difficulty in reaching agreements. In fact, the two main traditional demands of the EITB committees are limited by Spanish legislation, which has been of a basic nature for years: on the one hand, wage increases and, on the other, more fixed positions. Anyway, the difficulty with the corporate committees is not new. We've seen things like this before. Or has the EIB committee, especially in 2009, forgotten the feeble historical ability to get to the agreements? Even so, in the hard economic context, the director of the EITB today has been the director of all the board of EIB, in order to prolong the maintenance of the contract of the team. In the same way, today's direction has been the first sign of ETB-Net's contract in his history. However, this government has a confidence in the conduct of EIB's conduct, which will continue to be a collective negotiation, and endeavour to obtain new settlements. In the course of the summer, the example of Precon is that which he has done: Some of the issues about the boarders at EIB have been discussed in Precon about the accounts or billings of kilometres.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u19	Look, counselor, don't deny the reality. This is the legislature with the greatest social conflict in EITB, and I think no one can doubt it at all. But, in any case, the Socialists are not going to raise the conditions of the negotiation, of how it has to be carried out, because, although we are firmly committed to social dialogue, I have already told you in my first speech that this is the responsibility of the management and the representatives of the workers. In any case, we, what we are asking you is a much more global issue. We are raising what EITB's reality is today, and one of its aspects, what is the social conflictivity in this. Look, Commissioner, the failure of the management of EITB is being reflected in all areas. The strategic plan has been left on wet paper after being sold, pure contentless marketing. There is neither a public service that provides support for Basque citizens, nor sustainability, as can be seen from the inability to meet market challenges, nor budget balance, except for the government's supplementary injection to prevent the entity from going bankrupt, nor a shared vision with the professionals of the house. The ruling elite, with managers included, is getting further and further away from the workers. Unpublished situations of social conflict in EITB are being experienced, as I repeat. Madam Counsellor, I repeat, we are holding your Government responsible for what is happening in the Basque Public Television Radio entity and we are not going to miss the opportunity to demand that they put order in that entity. Socialists are not against EITB. We want public broadcasting, but above all, what we want is to respect the principles that inspired its creation and that were subsequently ratified. That is why we are also going to ask you not to allow events like this week, when in an official note of the EITB house it is called Basque political prisoners who are actually prisoners of ETA, in a note announcing a program whose content does not exactly help the delegitimization of terrorism. Put on your batteries, counselor. Promote social peace in EITB. Take the reins of EITB. She's out of her hands, and her disdain is paid for by all Basques and Basques. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u20	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u21	Mr Unzalu, we too believe in the principles of the entity, but you strive to place the focus of attention uniquely and exclusively in the direction. However, we should also analyse the content of the recent communiqué issued by various committees, for example. Lan kargagatiko kontratuei buruz jakin beharrekoa da lan ikuskaritzak razoia eman diola berriki entrepriseri gai horren inguruko salaketa batan aurrean. With respect to relebuk contracts, all requests are accepted, this modality is considered positive to the working man and to the company. On the judicialization of labour relations, I would like to make it clear that this cannot be attributed exclusively to the management of the entity. I can remind you of several of the judgments won: the one concerning the 5% wage reduction, the ERE of Eusko Irratia, the bases of the public call for employment of Eusko Irratia, the judgments on availability in writing of ETB, many other judgments. We must also remember that the current management has defended in the courts decisions taken by governments and previous legislatures, such as the elimination of the extraordinary pay of 2012 or the aforementioned 5% wage discount of 2010, to name a few. In this sense, it must be remembered that we are all responsible for the restoration of EIB's project from social conversation to the future. The management sent a note to the staff to open the roads last week. In this case the management made an appeal to the representatives of the social party and to begin the conversation, because the conversation of the authorities and of the workingmen is necessary, and the interest of both sides is indispensable, and the good disposition of the two parties is indispensable. And not just theirs, but ours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the lawmakers of the Oyharland de Euskal Group to study education, politics, and Cultural Divisions, the sexual abuses which a teacher has supposed to have done in some Gastian schools." Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Madam Counsellor, the occurrence of alleged sexual abuse of minors between three and five years of age in various public centres in Vitoria-Gasteiz has caused a huge social alarm, alarm aggravated by the inaction of his department, which was alerted by the Álava Prosecutor's Office and by the City Council of Vitoria itself, which detected four alleged victims of minors in city centres. In particular, the most prominent example is that of which the media have echoed, reported in 2013, alleged abuses of a minor at the Luis Dorao school in Vitoria, which, after many efforts, the family manages to move from center to its daughter, to the Ikastola Landazuri, and it turns out that we find that just the teacher denounced appears in the same Ikastola Landazuri time after. Can you explain to us exactly what your department has done all this time? How is it possible that this could have happened? What's the matter with you, Counselor?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u24	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u25	President andrea. Mr Oyarzabal, in order to make a correct assessment of a situation, even more so when it comes to such a delicate subject as this, it is necessary to take into account all the facts and not obviate a part. This department has acted and acts whenever it has the slightest suspicion that any minor may be living in a situation of risk to his physical, mental and moral integrity. The safety of our children, of our students, is our top priority. This department has always taken possession of it, and always takes a student's hand, if he has the slightest suspicion that he may be in danger, or that he may be able to protect his physical, psychic, and moral whole. The safety of children, the security of our students, is our primary priority. It would be desirable for us all to act with the utmost respect, discretion and prudence on this sensitive and sensitive issue. In any case, I can assure you that at no time has there been a risk situation for minors, as corroborated by what the senior prosecutor said this week. Neither have they, the prosecutor's office, seen any need to take precautionary measures, because there is apparently no evidence for this. I insist, the prosecution says.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u27	Madam Counsellor, you know perfectly well that it is unheard of, and that is why you have effectively suspended that teacher, you have taken him out of the centre, because it is unheard of that professor denounced, even without evidence, because we are talking about testimonies of boys between three and five years old, and girls between three and five years old; that there is no evidence does not mean that you do not have to act preventively. Look, I'm going to tell you the facts. The complaints occurred in 2013, the family addressed their department, the territorial delegation, in 2014, reporting a number of facts, explaining to you that they were not receiving any attention or information from the center. They didn't get an answer. The same in October 2014. Skull answer saying that, simply, the case has been closed. I think that's a cold and inappropriate way of treating a family when we're dealing with a case of this gravity. In February 2015, a new writing from the family to the delegation, which responds in a skewed manner exactly the same. They are denied the information, they have to refer to the vice-counsel herself, they try to tell them in a comprehensive way what is happening to them. It seems that the problem is them, not the professor denounced. They are denied all kinds of attention. And I wonder, let's see, if you are told at first that the appropriate protocols have been applied, why then we have to find out, in your answer to a parliamentary question in this House, that there was no protocol, that there is no protocol, that our educational system has no protocol. I did not have it in 2013 and, much more seriously, that you did not have it in 2013 and that we continue today without a protocol of action for cases of sexual abuse of minors in public centres in our Community. That's the most serious thing, counselor. Why is the family not informed of the performances? Why is he not kept informed at all times of what is the follow-up that is made of his daughter, what is the follow-up that is made of the teacher? Because they are told that the teacher is being watched, but according to the child's parents, what is being done is to watch the child, but not the teacher. How can it be that you do not have, as I said, a protocol? How can medical services...? I'm sorry, I'd like to ask you: what medical services did you make available to the family in your department in connection with family follow-up? We have heard from the counselor's response that there was a thorough follow-up. Can you tell us exactly what has happened so that the warnings given by the City of Vitoria in relation to various cases and by the prosecutor's office itself may be disregarded?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u28	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Time is up. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u29	Mr Oyarzabal, I believe that in my first speech I have already told you. You can't do evaluations with a part of the information. I think you're using biased information. He also knows that there is an inquiry, that an appearance has been requested and that there is a whole series of details that I believe, on the one hand, need a quite important degree of discretion in such a sensitive case and to which here, with his attitude, he is not helping. I'm sorry, I don't share it with you: one thing is to clarify the performance, and, as I can tell you, we from the first moment, from the first moment in 2013, have acted and have not stopped acting. The same father did not inform the center, we found out from outside. And I'm not gonna start saying what each of you has done. It will be time to make the relevant clarifications at each point, with dates, meetings, contents and all that is needed, if necessary. But I don't think this is helping what we're dealing with. It's no help what's happening right now. The department has acted at all times since 2013, protecting minors, minors and the entire community. The teacher too. I believe it is our duty, and it is not acting well in this case. In the various communications and meetings that we have held, both with the Luis Dorao centre initially and with other centres later as well as with the City of Gasteiz, through the Child and Family Service, the Ararteko, we have collaborated both by providing the requested information and by establishing the necessary follow-up and monitoring measures. Not the girl exclusively: the whole community. We're worried about the whole community. Even when we've been summoned from the Araba prosecutor's office to request information. We have acted at all times according to the information we have provided, although there has been no official notification by the Arab prosecutor's office of the opening of the investigation and the transfer of proceedings from the court. In conclusion, I would like to state, as I said at the outset, that in order to make a correct assessment we must have all the facts and not obviate a part – and in this case the professor mentioned was investigated and his case closed –; that at the moment, in the alleged cases being investigated we have no evidence to indicate anything against this professor; that he is not accused, as Ararteko himself has said; that he is in possession of all his rights. That opinion coincides with all the information we have and have been gathering through our own channels, through the addresses of the centres and inspection. However, if there is any indication or evidence of a crime, it will be the justice that has to say about it; neither I, nor this Parliament, nor the media.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Five point in theme list: "I'm asking you, Gorka Maniero Labayen Misto-UPyD members made to the president, political responsibilities to be taken after the editor of the Basque Commission." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u31	Yes, good morning. Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Mr Lehendakari, I would like to ask you about your political responsibility in relation to the case of news paid by the Basque Government, and the financing of certain media related to the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government. I mean, what political responsibility are you willing to take on? What part do you have? Because, in fact, we are talking about possible crimes that are extremely serious. We are talking about misappropriation of public revenues, we are talking about fraud against public administrations and we are talking about prevarication. These are the crimes we're talking about. As a result of a complaint lodged by UPyD, the Director of Communication of the Basque Government, Mr Bernardo, has indeed been charged and a number of proceedings are ordered and certain reports and dossiers are requested from the Basque Government. Mr Bernardo has resigned, although he seems to have temporarily resigned. And besides, you will have to explain exactly what situation this person is now in. But, in any case, what is the political responsibility that you assume? Because of this, of course, we understand that the last one is you; it is a case that affects many departments of the Basque Government. They can occur in the coming weeks, in the coming months, new charges, and we understand that the last one is responsible for you. So, what part of the responsibility does it take? Are you going to apologize or are you going to do as you did recently in ETB, say that everything was done perfectly and even that this government has acted in the same way as other previous governments did? Because that accusation would certainly be serious. In any case, what is your responsibility in relation to this issue?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u32	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, to answer you, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u33	Madam of the Parliament, thank you. Mr Maneiro, whoever was Director of Communication submitted his resignation on the sole ground that he had been called to testify. Just for that. My political responsibility is the same today as on 17 December 2012, when the current Basque Government was formed. My responsibility was to go to the Permanent Chamber of this House on July 7, 2014. And in the face of what you say, that, curiously, in justification, what you say is "regardless of what is the outcome of the judicial investigation" –"regardless of what is" you say in justification – "... We are certainly faced with a serious case of using public flows." You don't care about everything, Mr. Maneiro. You say it: "regardless of what the outcome of the judicial investigation is." Look, and it also says: "An irregular performance that Lehendakari himself recognized already in July 2014." I mean, he says I recognized an irregular performance. I explained the facts and made five improvement commitments. One, commitment to transparency. For the first time, a full report on advertising expenditure is sent to this Parliament every four months. It's never been done before. Second compromise, improvement of the internal procedure. For the first time, the Interdepartmental Advertising Commission oversees, in addition to advertising campaigns – and this is what I said –, in addition to advertising campaigns, all sponsorships, regulating transparently the criteria for spending distribution. Third commitment, control. For the first time all sponsorship proposals include a specific clause to identify the Government. And when I say for the first time, it wasn't done before, and that's what I mean. If you consider these to be irregularities, you are the one who is saying so. Fourth commitment, ethical. The Ethics Code Commission points out in its report that it does not appreciate any reason to consider that we are faced with a conscious and deliberate breach of the basic ethical rule that imposes on public officials the observance of the law. Fifth commitment, institutional. The Government has made available to the courts all the information required of it under this item. Our responsibility, my responsibility, is to comply with these commitments, and there have been no irregular actions. The aim is to improve transparency, monitoring and control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u35	Mr Lehendakari, did the Basque Government hand over public money to certain media outlets related to the Basque Nationalist Party in violation of the Institutional Advertising Act? It has been made clear in this House that, indeed, it does. That is what most of this House thinks. Has the Basque Government paid for certain PNV-related media in exchange for interviews with certain members of the Basque Government? Can you answer this? Indeed, yes. According to you, there is nothing unusual or irregular, but there is already a person who has resigned. What are you going to do? By the way, what is this about temporary resignation? Have you put this person back in another position? Is this person still collecting public money? Can you clarify this, or are you pretending to deceive the citizenry? This person has indeed resigned. What are you going to do? Because, in fact, the Government has paid public money to certain related media outlets. And this is the reality. And you, in a recent interview, said that these kinds of acts were also carried out by previous governments. Did you say this or didn't I say this in that interview a few days ago? Are you accusing previous governments of violating existing lawfulness or of acting in this way? Do you consider that the Government has behaved properly? Aren't you going to apologize? Is everything done perfectly? We think the opposite. You have acted very badly and were caught, hence the complaint and hence the imputation and hence the resignation, even if it is temporary and even if it continues to collect public money. This, by the way, has to be clarified. Take, therefore, your responsibility. Ask for forgiveness, at least.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u36	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, I would really appreciate it if you would ask for forgiveness whenever you defile people's honor in an absolutely unfounded, unjustified way, when, moreover, the court rulings prove that you are not right. And it is a serious problem that you argue in your justification that regardless of what the outcome of the judicial investigation is, because that is the talent you have. Look, the Director of Communication has ceased his duties, yes, temporarily, because he enjoys my confidence. Not to fulfill as director for what you have been called to declare. Simply, so as not to interfere with what the judicial process is. But this even doesn't matter to you. The Director of Communication has the approval of the Commission of the Code of Ethics, to which he himself requested an opinion on the first day. It has the endorsement of the legal reform that it considers that the high office should not resign at the time of the investigation, and yet it does so. It has the approval of the judge's order, which makes it very clear that no investigation has yet been conducted and that there is no evidence of criminality in the action of the plaintiff. And it certainly has my endorsement as lehendakari, because it has always contributed to fulfilling the commitments made and to reporting transparently on all the details of its management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the law of the Gold Carolina Presidency of the Union to the President, the Trasexuals not to neglect the identity of the genus and the law of confession of their rights on 14/2012." Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u39	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. It's been three years since the 14/2012 Law, the Transexals don't neglect the specificity of the genus and the confession of their rights, since it was accepted, and unfortunately we can prove that different departments of the Euskion haven't fulfilled the law, because they're different operators. Is it natural to adopt the law as President Urkullu, and to continue in the course of three years without having developed the attributes of Arba, Biscaia, and of the rights of the people of Gipure?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. To answer, Chief, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u41	Chief of Parliament, Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. You, Mrs. Diana Gold, the development of that law you speak of is still going on, and we think it's going well. And I'd like to remark that this government has made it clear that the most fundamental parts of that law must be developed before this legislation is over. As you know, the law of 2012 guarantees the rights of persons, a law which allows the rights of transsexual persons to be excluded from their generic identity, and who are all obliged to receive attention from our public entities, and to their wants. In like manner, the law has assigned some responsibilities or duties to different institutions. As far as you're concerned, different departments should take care of what the law sets. Both the Department of Employment and Social Policy and the Departments of Education and Health are developing measures that are covered by the standard, so we can state that the development of this law is being properly implemented.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u42	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u43	This law is framed in a policy of equality, and therefore we see that it is not given the character that it should have, because it is the lehendakari Urkullu who should have gone out to this rostrum. Because it is indeed the responsibility of many departments of this Government to develop the implementation of an equality policy, a law that falls within the framework of equality policies. The counselor said that for them it is developing properly. I have to say that, precisely in previous appearances, his partner Aburto spoke of the importance of starting to develop the law. Counselor Darpón said in something as important as the clinical guide, which involves that integral service to transgender people, who went behind, but that, well, the important thing is that we could move forward. It's been three years. Collectives, transgender people, feel outraged, feel ashamed that there is a law that recognizes them a guarantee of rights that would have to be fulfilled and that are not being implemented today. Administrative documentation, they said for the first half of 2015. Could you tell me, Mr. Counsellor, if the agreement that was to be signed between the three departments was already signed so that this measure, article 7 of this law, would be complied with? It's absolutely embarrassing. I, Mr Urkullu, really invite you to transform yourself, even mentally, and to put yourself on the skin of a transsexual person, who defends your rights and who sees how you have a law in your favor that is violated, that is none. Last October 23 was the International Day of the Depatologization of Transsexuality. There are still tests in those Osakidetza reference units that are completely pathological, with questions like "What would you like to be, dancer or firefighter?", "What do you like best, play football or play with dolls?". That is the type of pathologization that transgender people suffer in this Autonomous Community. It's absolutely embarrassing. We are faced with a law that has fallen far short of what is required even by European legislation to guarantee legal recognition of gender, a free self-determination of gender, and that is that we cannot even, in this law that has already become obsolete, and we cannot even have full compliance. I mean, other people's shame. Berdindu, the public service that carries all the comprehensive treatment to LGBTI people, has also told us about the lack of resources on numerous occasions. If there are no resources, you can't take a comprehensive job. That is to say, we note once again that it is inactive and that it is completely embarrassing that a law that has not been enforced for three years remains unfulfilled. We cannot say "We are carrying it out, we are complying with the law", and that there are no concrete words to define what points they are carrying out. Right now, Mr. Counsellor, tell me specifically the points: clinical guide, administrative documentation, job placement, 80% unemployment rate among transgender people... And you know what Mr. Abort said?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Gold.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u45	That we'd take it into account.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u46	Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u47	I'll tell you. I will now emphasize the most important steps that we have hitherto taken to show that we are fulfilling the laws in the various Eukongs. First, equalize service, and its three legs, the line of work, define: Make one person equal to two families and three different schools. This has already been established as an integral public service for transsexual persons and their families. Bigarrena, the work they are developing between the Department of Employment and Social Policy and the Department of Education in addressing within the educational system care within the classroom of people with affective and sexual diversity. Thirdly, the department I run is finalizing the processing of Article 7 on the administrative documentation of persons in the process of reassignment of sex, which we will approve before the end of this year. That's our horizon. And fourthly, with regard to article 9, concerning the clinical guide, I would like to point out that the process for its evolution follows its course and can be completed during this year. In this respect, I would like to point out that this guide has acquired a multi-disciplinary dimension, beyond purely health aspects. Fifthly, awareness-raising campaigns are being conducted to ensure that all LGBTI groups have the consideration, support, respect and protection that LGBTI and other regulations reserve for them. Besides, I would like to remind you of our opening in our section, by the same service, that with other parts of the government, and with several associations, we begin to carry the article 11 in advance, in order to examine the inheritance of minor transsexuals in this article from a medical point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u48	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The seventh point on the theme list: "The question is that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto, a member of the U.UPyD team, has been made to the president about the lesser number of ETB audiences." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u49	Yes, thank you very much. Mr Lehendakari, I ask you about your assessment of Mrs Iturbe's unfortunate mandate as Director General of EITB since she was elected by political pact signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi. What does it do in relation to the principles it should and does not comply with: informative objectivity, ideological neutrality, respect for pluralism, truthfulness, impartiality, professionalism? What does it do in relation to the current trade union conflicts and internal unrest? What do you have to say in relation to the current audience, in historical minimums? And what does it have to do with the treatment that EITB is giving to the victims of terrorism? What do you have to say? What is the record of Mrs Iturbe's regrettable mandate over the last three years?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u50	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u51	President andrea. Mr Maneiro, last October 2nd I had the opportunity to explain the very difficult and complex situation in which EITB must develop day by day, a situation generated, in large part, by the duopoly existing in the Spanish audiovisual market. However, I do not think it is serious that you should take the interpretation of a means of communication as a reference and use that vision, because, of course, the data can be used in many ways, and we all know that it depends on how they can lead to different conclusions. You say EITB is being the worst hearing data in his history based on the data released. I must deny it. In 2011, EIB's share was 11.3% and was far from being a leader on the news. In 2011, the stubborn chains were only over 26%; today they have 40% of quotas. As for the budgets, which you also mentioned, "Bindio, 2011, the budget of EITB was 63,8 million euros more than in 2015, so I think your numbers and charges are not compatible with reality." Anyway, I didn't come here to compare the current situation with the state of 2011. EIB is the only group of communications given in both official languages by the complete offer of information, entertainment, and distraction. The activity and results of EITB are subject to the free will of consumption carried out by citizens by selecting one or the other means, and in this regard and in this area it is in which it will continue to work in order to offer programming which, in compliance with the basic principles and approved general guidelines, will be attractive to citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u53	Madam Counsellor, I have asked you about the balance sheet you make on Mrs Iturbe's term of office for the past three years. What is the balance you make in relation to this mandate? He hasn't answered anything at all. What's the balance? What do you think: bad, very bad or bad? What do you think? What do you think? Do you feel proud of how EITB is doing, that it's at least historical in relation to the audience? Is this okay with you? Do you feel proud? Do you think the warrant is being impeccable? Or rather bad, very bad or bad, what do I think? What do you do in relation to the principles that you should comply with and do not comply with objectivity, professionalism, truthfulness? What do you think this deserves? Do you think you're following these principles? The rest of the House thinks that no, the rest of the House, and in particular a server, and UPyD, thinks that EITB is today a nationalist television for nationalists, whose ultimate goal is to sell the postulates of nationalism and the Basque Nationalist Party, and to protect the government. That's what we think, and that's the balance sheet we do. A television whose behaviour in relation to the victims of terrorism is simply shameful; a television that has recently invited certain Tertullians whose, in the end, past is nothing less than a leader of the terrorist band ETA. This is the balance sheet we make of EITB. A television at the service of nationalism, which is also at a disastrous, very low, level of audience, and which has also insulted and insulted and does not adequately protect the victims of terrorism, which refuses to issue certain documentaries that try to tell the truth of the events that have taken place or to denounce the fact that there are more than 300 crimes committed by ETA pending resolution, while issuing documentaries that favor the vision that society wants it to have in relation to ETA prisoners. A shameful EITB, which is able to issue a statement calling political prisoners to ETA prisoners. All this is what you have to talk about, not analyze what exactly I say or what I have written in that justification. I'm asking you about the balance sheet. It all started wrong, because all this started with a dark and unexplained pact signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, and now we are as we are. All this must be changed, and of course we are calling for Mrs Iturbe's resignation again. The balance sheet of these three years is absolutely regrettable. A television at the service of the Government, which also insults the victims of terrorism and is at minimum levels of audience. But you talk about all this: do you feel proud? Is the government happy?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u54	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u55	Mr Maneiro, in order to make a balance, I think we have to rely on data, and I, what I have tried to do, is to show that the data you have provided is wrong; therefore, that makes you come to the wrong conclusions. I just wanted to show you that these data were not true and that the data we show you and the evolution that EITB has undergone as a whole, both in hearings and in the economic availability or situation in which we find ourselves, are not bad. It is very easy to criticize the management of others; above all, when you do not want to see or want to see something else that is not the reality, but the truth is that, given the difficult situation you are going through, the management of EITB is maintaining proper management. ETB continues to be a leader in information spaces. The leadership position is growing and consolidating. EIB has no debts, even from deficiencies; though this is a necessary request for all public radio systems and managers in general not loaded. EIB has managed the crisis by applying the criteria of endurance and efficiency, by balancing expenses and revenues. As for the working relations you have mentioned, though the budget of EIB has been visibly reduced from 2009 to 2015, the direction of the administration has retained every year the amount of money which has been directed to the first chapter. EITB has retained all the temporal and social rights of personnel, and has signed to maintain the maintenance of all the contracts, after establishing the reforms of the Pooperative party for the July of 2013. In 2015, he agreed and signed the first EiTV-Net work agreement. The foundations of the public call for employment of Euskadi Irratia have been declared legal and the origin of the collective extinction of employment and the economic causes behind it has been considered. Therefore, Mr Maneiro, although I know that there is always room for improvement, I believe that there are many positive things that have been achieved in these years. I don't share your vision.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The eighth point in the subject list: "Internation, made by Jon Azkue Manterola, a member of the Basque Socialists to the head of Economics and competency, 188 of the International Organization of Job. About re-establishing the Fishing Word. Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u57	Congressman, Mr President, chief officers, good morning to all. Two days ago a experimented fisherman in the sandribi, Mr. Eceiza, died in the sea, his ship called "New Admiral" was forty thousand miles from the coast. Working in the sea is hard, but we can't watch the reality of accidents, as some people do, touching the Christian despair. Each death, every accident, demands a more important attempt to stop the laborer from dying. We have to report every death, yes, but we have to concentrate on it so that no more workers die. A fisherman in this case. This is done by providing means to prevent accidents, with preventive measures, by ensuring training and knowledge, with good conditions of employment, by combating fatigue, with suitable workplaces, with decent work and conditions that prevent the death of more people in the trench; in this case, at sea. Despair is useless, as condolences do. "That can always happen" or "that was his fate" is no good. In order to reduce the fatal effects of accidents and workmen, the preventive and healthy measures must be taken and executed. And with this, we need to be responsible for the firms and offer more valuable conditions of work to the workers. I'm not a botherr mutomás, tampoco en la mar. This is what I am going to present today in this Parliament, a claim of rights for the fishermen of the world who are today denied, in an activity in which the professionals, the fishermen, suffer a very high degree of sinisterity, without hardly any regulation. Fishermen and fishing vessels are excluded from almost any existing legislation, and this Convention therefore provides a basic framework for shipowners' obligations. But it also sets out obligations for governments to introduce rules into their respective laws. Trade unions are working hard in each state and through their international organizations – European Transport Federation or International Transport Federation – for states to adopt ILO Convention 188. The adoption of this agreement is, in short, a tribute to the 30 million men and women working in the fishing industry worldwide. On 14 June 2007, the International Labour Organization adopted the 2007 Fisheries Labour Convention, No. 188. This convention proposes an innovative and global approach in the context of globalisation in the maritime sector. Alongside the Maritime Convention 2006 for seafarers, ratified among other countries by all the countries of the European Union, it represents a true code of work or a global convention for seafarers and fishermen. ILO Convention 188 covers everything that was included in the various ILO fisheries conventions. It was designed to ensure that all fishermen worldwide have decent working and living conditions, seeking to establish acceptable minimum standards to protect fishermen in all aspects of their work, in what constitutes – and I know you have no doubt – a profession, I insist, dangerous and mostly unregulated. In a sector in which small enterprises engaged in artisanal fishing coexist with very powerful industrial fleets, the Convention responds to the challenges of globalisation with a disparity in living and working conditions on board ships, as well as the application of safety and control standards. As I said earlier, there are more than 30 million fishermen in the world, of whom 50% work full-time on board fishermen. For them – and the agreement does – minimum standards of access to work in fisheries (minimum age, health status) are laid down, as well as rules for work itself, which include from the contract of employment on behalf of the shipowner, posted on board, amount of salary, medical coverage, social security and a chapter on safety and health at work and prevention of accidents at work, ensuring the basic training of crew members in this field. The accommodation and its characteristics, as well as the guarantee of adequate food, are also part of this agreement, in which they also highlight the necessary equipment of the ships and the hours of rest. In order not to insist more on the particularities of the agreement, I will quote an absolutely basic key to consider the bonanzas of the agreement, and it is the ability to control it that is given both to the state of the flag of the fishing vessel and to the state of the port where the ships arrive, with the right of the state of the port to demand compliance with the agreement, if it has ratified it, even to flag ships of states that have not ratified it. ILO Convention 188 on fisheries is also part of the logic of sustainable development, taking into account social harmonization, the preservation of security and the environment at the global level. As it guarantees fishermen decent working and living conditions, it presents for shipowners the advantage of hindering social dumping by walking towards fair competition on the basis of common and controlled rules, and rejecting the marginality of ships without rules, ships that we have all always known as pirate ships and that do so much damage to sustainable fishing. For the states that ratify it, this convention integrates the human dimension into the inspections that so far were limited to the technical issues governed by the International Maritime Organization. Hence the duality I have commented about flag state-port state. The Spanish fleet has 9,635 ships, 357,556 tons of archery, 1,117,392 horsepower and an average length of 10.89 meters. Our fleet, the Basque, alone with 211 ships, accounts for 2.19 % in the number of ships, but 20.93% of the total of the crude arching and 34.84% of the power, with an average length of 28.29 meters. These data reflect the specific characteristics, because all our ships would be involved in the international convention, and also reflect the internationalization of part of our fleet. The jobs of EU fishermen amount to 139,000, of which 36,000 are in Spain, while in Euskadi we have 1,985. Despite the efforts of the ILO, little progress has been made in ratifying the 188th Convention, and we believe that from our Community we must promote ratification with the European states of the 188th Convention and, logically, starting with Spain. We owe it to the fishing world to which we so much say we defend. We owe it to all fishermen fishing in all oceans. We owe it to the oceans themselves. That is why I present this question to the Counsellor for Economic Development and Competitiveness. What steps will he take to suggest to the Spanish Government that he must assent to the publication of this persuasion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u58	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. In reply, Mrs. Tapia's got a word that's a New Year's Representative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u59	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Azkue, as you used to say, is based on different conditions of work the fishermen compare with the workers of other areas. The fishing industry is getting more and more globalized even, because we know how to fish with new technology it's changing fast. This agreement about the fishermen' work, this marriage of 2007, number 188, is his chief aim to promote the worthy conditions of fishing, as you have mentioned, and to protect the fishermen, in some measure promotes the regulation. The international organization of work has always continued to focus on the fishing sector, and I want to remember that, starting from 1920, 1959, 1966, and now 2007 has particularly paid special attention to the conditions of the fishermen' work. and in the year 2000 he made 60 recommendations and covenants concerning the people of the sea, in order to regulate all this. The International Administration Council in the State of March 2002, by this view, decided that Lanri International 92. This point, as it were, was to introduce a new one into the subject-list, and a general rule of fishing. But when the seawork had been made, the commerce was concerned only with the sea-boats, and the fishing world was left outside. And in order to fill that gap in the world of fisheries, as you have said, at the 96th meeting of the ILO the Convention on Fisheries Labour, 188, was adopted, but the recommendation on work in fisheries, 199, was also adopted, and these new international standards were adopted by an overwhelming majority of votes. This agreement 188, I would also like to remind you, as you have done, that it is intended to ensure that fishermen enjoy decent working conditions – it says practically so – on board the fishing vessels on which they work, and it refers to conditions of service, accommodation and food, safety protection, and the result of that. as you also said – we have had a regrettable event this very week, of medical care, but also of Social Security. When this convention was drafted, it was envisaged that the implementation of its provisions could be done through State legislation and regulation in each of the Member States, but also as a result of its application in collective agreements. This recommendation No. 199, which was also adopted at that international conference, also provides further guidance on the convention to be developed in 188. And I am not going to go over it, because it is very complicated and very long, but I would like to point out that it goes from the figure of the fisherman himself or the fishing activity he has to carry out to what conditions he has to have and so on. But I would like to focus, above all, on something you said at the end of your inquiry, and that is how this convention comes into force. And the text itself states that it will enter into force 12 months after the date on which the ratifications of 10 member states, eight of which must be coastal states, were registered by the general management, and you yourself referred to this. From then on, the convention will enter into force for each Member State, I insist, 12 months after that ratification. And today, at the international level, after eight years, nothing less, only five states have ratified this convention: Argentina, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Congo, Morocco and South Africa. And in addition, none of them has entered into force. As far as the Spanish State is concerned, eight years have passed, and this agreement has not been ratified by the governments of either Mr Rodríguez Zapatero or Mr Rajoy. But it is not that it has not been ratified, but that there has been no interpellation, no motion, in short, no initiative in this regard. It is not necessary, moreover, to remind him that we as the Basque Government are prevented from being present and to have our own voice, despite being competent in this matter, in the areas of the European Union and, of course, of this International Labour Organization. And in this scenario, Mr Azkue, you are asking the Basque Government to push the government of the state, the European Union and the state to sign and ratify this convention. Of course, it is commendable that you have faith in the capabilities of this Government. That I fully share the goodness of this text and the need for its ratification, but it is true that within our competence we understand that we have more urgent and important work to defend our fleet and our runaways, rather than embarking on this crusade alone, despite – I insist – that I share the goodness with you. Furthermore, I would like to recall the latest developments in the Spanish State, in the General Courts, in relation to fisheries. You will no doubt recall that the Basque Nationalist Group in the Congress of Deputies, in the processing of these last budgets that have been approved, made reference to the situation and the need for our networks, neskatillas and packaging companies to have adequate recognition and social security conditions, as the rest of the sector has. Of course, it was an amendment that was absolutely denied. It was taken to the Senate and approved in the Senate. But, of course, as you have to go back to Congress, you're going to fall back into Congress. That is the concern that exists at the moment in the Spanish State with regard to our fisheries sector. In any case, I would really join and encourage you to present the relevant initiative as a result of this inquiry, because you will have our support. But not only here, also in the Spanish State, once the General Courts are formed after the next elections, of course, you will have us at your side to get this ratified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u61	Thank you for the answer. Two or three things, alone. On the one hand, I can see that sometimes we don't know much about it. You have to be there a lot. And it's my turn to be there, and that's why I'm seven years old and eight... ; and when are the compacts made... I know it takes a lot of time. Still, he hadn't even been introduced in the Zapero government. You know, huh? That's what happens. France has taken it and it's in both cameras, but it seems easy, but I don't know how long it takes to get in and confirm it again. I thank him for the intervention; I know for sure, and certainly for the feeling he has towards the fishermen, because all of us who are from a coastal village – in this case, from a Basque coastal village – have a true love, indeed, for what fishing means. But I'd like to tell you something. To ask for the involvement of the Basque Government, of course, because we are involved, workers involved. We usually forget. What is the reality of our fleet? Or aren't there fishermen who are working on flags ships completely outside the European Union today? That's right, with Basque shipowners, owners of them, but they don't even have social security. I am not asking for something that does not obviously involve us here, those of us who represent the Basque citizens. I am demanding action from the Basque Government precisely because we are involved, and at the time of the People's Party, we must, of course, try to get it started. And this is among all of us. I believe that internationalization, globalization, has two faces, I often say the face of the left, in this case, and the face of the right, which many times – besides, I don't know why – try to hide. Globalization does not exist without possible regulation, if it is to be a regulation of the future. And this globalization is allowed without rules, of course, which have always been allowed: the financiers, etc. But they stand in the way of something that is basic, if we want unstoppable globalization, that is, but at least fair, at least with very measured effects that do not affect the world of work. And it is the workers, because it is those who suffer, who really benefit from globalisation. And that's what we have to break. And this is a rule directly related to the rule that the economic fields or industries that are globalised have to regulate. I insist, knowing surely the existing sensitivity: we need something more than sensitivity. We need you to tell us what steps you are going to take, because there are daily acts with the ministry on the part of your advice, to which we must add that, in addition to the quota necessary for our fishermen to have enough fish to be economically valid in their labours, these questions are also addressed, which, I insist, affect millions of workers but, among others, ours, and in all the existing fields where we can act internationally and act (councils..., well, I will not specify all), it is also our duty, of the Basque Government, to raise it. I did not want to raise the issue of the People's Party because, of course, we have raised it, we have raised it several times, the issue of ratification. Well, equally there is not so much interest on the part of a group of shipowners who have their weight and who are delighted that on their ships there are 10 Indonesians, only two Spaniards, who do not have regulation, and that also, surely, weighs excessively on what he called the way of seeing globalization on the right. In short, of course, we will continue to insist, we will make the right motion and we really believe that more sensitivity is needed, but that sensitivity is shown to be moving. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u62	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u63	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Because sensitivity has been shown, Mr Azkue, precisely because of this, as must be done in Madrid, our group does with acts, making interpellations, motions and all those acts, as I said, in the last case, by referring only to the last, redoubts, packers and neskatilas, that is where the will can be seen. And it is true that we must continue to act, but it is up to the government of the State, and if we were to sign it tomorrow, but it is that we do not have representation, despite having the maximum powers, and that is also the consequence that certain things are denied to us, and this is a consequence of problems that are denied. In any case, I also told you that this type of action and the transposition of this rule, even though it is not signed, can be carried out through collective agreements in the fisheries here, from Euskadi. That can be done in our fishing ships, but there are other problems, as you mentioned. And throughout this parliamentary term, in our relationship with the Secretariat-General for Fisheries we have focused perhaps more on trying to put in place instruments to develop the European Union's guidelines, especially as they affect the freezer tuna fleet, because, as you say, perhaps this is where we have the most problems. We started there, among other things, trying to find a way to deal with that dumping that you also referred to in your inquiry. Rejecting the actions of those ships operating practically without standards, in clear reference, above all, to those operating in Southeast Asia. We find that both at state and foral level there have been published rules that provide for exceptions, for example, from the IRPF of workers on board such vessels, as you certainly know. On the other hand, no reference is made and no tax aid is established for social security benefits, those in which the State legislates for our companies. And this, of course, in the face of the perplexity of the European Commission itself, which in its day has already shown doubts as to how we can contribute to competitiveness if we do not make any reference to this type of action, to work only on the Income Tax for Physical Persons and not on other benefits in social security. However, in view of what we are observing, the inaction – let us say – of all these kinds of possible actions in tax reliefs, in analysis, which the Spanish State has to do, and in view of the inaction and non-action in the bonuses in social security contributions, we are also insisting on the central government, both active and passive, that they take note of these issues and have a greater sensitivity, but not sensitivity, that they act in this regard. Therefore, we have no problem – all the contrary – in acting on our collective agreements, in continuing with the Spanish state speaking about the fleet of freezer tuna vessels, influencing aspects of Social Security, which we believe are key and the main ones today, even though we have other kinds of actions, and, of course, we will be more than willing to continue acting through the General Courts of the State, which are where we have to work, in addition to bilateral meetings with the ministry, even though – I insist – we do not recognize those competences and are not able to sign this agreement, which we would sign today. I think, then, that will, will, and actions, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "Interpologies made by the House of Companies of the Basque Team of Carmelus Barrius Barroja, to the Chief of Police and Society, to regulate the co-operatives of the House." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u65	Good morning. Thank you, President. Lehendakari, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Well, in the past I was also asking the Minister of Employment and Social Policy about cooperatives; that case was a more general issue, it was the Cooperatives Act and what the Government's intentions were in relation to that issue. Today we continue to talk about the social economy in this form, the form of housing cooperatives, and in this sense there are a number of issues to be considered. Recently, information also on the issue, about housing cooperatives, about their supposed boom, has taken place, and we have seen that there is a need to carry out elements of control and normative figures to this effect, an important boom of housing cooperatives in Euskadi, an increasing deployment, an importance, a weight... What is a housing cooperative? The purpose of housing cooperatives is to promote housing for their own cooperative partners. Being a member of a housing cooperative implies becoming a promoter of the housing to subsequently access one of them, houses owned, rented, and, therefore, the partners or partners or entrepreneurs taking part in the management of the company, risking the funds that contribute as participation in the capital of the cooperative and facing the losses or enjoying the possible economic benefits generated by the company. This is the abc of what housing cooperatives are, but here's the question. What's going on today? What needs do we have in relation to housing cooperatives? A recent report by the Basque Housing Observatory says many things. He said that housing cooperatives could be an effective, efficient model for the promotion of quality housing; he also noted and said that there was a high level of ignorance among the people who were part of the cooperative, among the cooperative partners. These are issues that need to be raised, and of course the report by the Basque Housing Observatory itself says so. It is necessary to take decisive steps for regulation, for control, to improve the instruments that we have on this issue today, to give them agility and to improve management, which will ultimately go in line with... This Parliament has recently adopted a Housing Act, and is going to go in line, to seek development formulas for something as important as housing in this country. I referred earlier to the rise of housing cooperatives, was the holder the other day of a line-by-line information followed by the report of the Basque Housing Observatory and emphasized the fact that alerts, alarms or at least the alert in the Basque Government have been lit in relation to this new situation which has qualitatively had some incidences after the crisis, with the crisis, but which are there, there are quantitative elements. Reference is also made to the Observatory's own report: in 2008, only one in 20 housing units were cooperative. In 2014 it is already one in three, i.e. 500 over 1,400. That is to say, there are also exceptions (there are fewer VPOs), but in any case, they are retrievable elements. In 2014 350 cooperative societies were created to build in Euskadi; where more, in Bizkaia. According to the Euskadi Higher Council of Cooperatives, half of the cooperative consultations are on housing cooperatives in 2014. In other words, there are a number of warnings – we suppose that in the Basque Government too – regarding the Cooperatives Act also, the possibilities that can give a new regulation, with housing cooperatives. With regard to the regulation of the Cooperatives Act 1993 there is a lack of things and they have now become apparent in this new need for regulation. This has been highlighted by the Government itself in its draft draft law on cooperatives in general terms in relation to housing cooperatives. The conclusions and trends of the report of the Basque Housing Observatory are very clear in relation to his report on housing cooperatives. The conclusions, one of them, the quantitative information confirms the existence of a trend towards the greatest promoter activity in the Basque Autonomous Community through housing cooperatives. As I said before, one out of every three protected housing units in the Basque Autonomous Community has been promoted through housing cooperatives – a relevant fact. It is emphasized that this trend is closely associated with the commitment through this instrumental nature by this cooperative format by traditional construction companies, something that needs to be ordered, surely, with a better measure: the Cooperatives Act in its current drafting leaves a wide margin for any type of enterprise to be behind the construction of a housing cooperative. So, that's where we have to tune in, we understand. In addition, the public administrations, through the conditions and requirements of the award processes, have in some cases favoured this trend, the administrations themselves have perhaps favoured this de facto situation that we have today, so we need to fine-tune and to regulate. It also states among the conclusions that housing cooperatives can be an effective and efficient model for the promotion of quality housing – a relevant fact. I mean, let's understand that there's normative ground there to walk on. He says that public administrations will be able to assist in the dissemination and training of the rights and duties of the partners and the implications they entail, and here is one of the elements to which I referred before: there is a high degree of ignorance among the cooperative partners regarding the corporate character in their role in the projects and the implications of the same. We are talking about protocols for action, indeed, and about the need for transparency, information and involvement of cooperative partners and partners. Also, as a conclusion, it is mentioned that it would be of interest to promote initiatives linked more closely to cooperative principles in relation to housing cooperatives, which may escape a little more because of this indefinition or because of this lack of regulation, perhaps more stringent or more concrete, for the benefit of cooperatives in relation to cooperative principles; it is to link that so important formula of the social economy that cooperatives are to the principles. That is a basic element and it is also a defining element, and more so in this land, where the usual co-operatives of associated work or other type of agri-food co-operatives, etc., are part of these principles. Just like any of these formulas escapes from them and it may be good to retain them and consolidate them and define them better. Well, there are also projected trends in relation to housing cooperatives moving forward or going back to the other kind of businesses... Well, in that sense there are different positions on the part, as the report says, of the agents consulted, and it is clear that it is going to increase, it is going to continue to develop or not, because what is needed, of course, and what is identified as clear is the need for better regulation. And then, as a last conclusion, it links the assignment of use, that is, of what has already been regulated in the Housing Act recently adopted by this Parliament, with the cooperative drive of collectives who want to participate actively in the promotion, design and construction of their homes under the regime of assignment of use, as an alternative model to the traditional one we know in other parts of Europe. It is a clear report, a report that alerts and highlights the need for better regulation. We could and can have a useful instrument through the Cooperatives Act – then we can continue to talk about the issue – but we do want to know the position, the position of the Basque Government and to tell us, in relation to this issue – as evidenced by an observatory which is also of the Government itself – what are the criteria and intentions in relation to this urgent regulatory need which the Government itself has put forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u66	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u67	Mr. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning. As you can see, the Housing Watch is an equipment for Exodus Enplegu and Polylice Division from the Department of Society. The observatory transmits and arranges housing information to be used by anyone. From three points of view all this information is examined by the observation. On the one hand, as though the public institutions were capable of making decisions, and also of satisfying the demands of professionals and agents, and above all, of showing the reality of the sector of the housing in an objective and institutional manner. The Observatory includes all the statistical information generated by the Vice-Council of Housing, plus all the studies and reports it carries out on the sector. In addition, the Observatory is a space for shared analysis of the collection of the most important news, repository of historical data and current events, all in order to become a reflection of the reality of housing. Its activity and planning have three distinct origins: on the one hand, the regular dissemination of official housing statistics, the evaluation of public housing policies and, finally, studies and reports that seek to collect topics of current interest and relevance to the sector at every specific moment. And this third way of working of the Observatory is the one employed in the case of the report that concerns us, which was published this month, on 5 October, on the website of the Observatory, with the intention of making an approach to the analysis of the growing importance of the activity promoting protected housing through the form of housing cooperative. The work mechanics followed is also common for the Observatory, because a collaborative work network was established with public agents, with private agents, with experts and assets in the cooperative world, to obtain information and a plural contrast to proceed with the study. And from these contrasts, the report proceeds, as always, to draw conclusions and propose recommendations for improvement. Allow me, Mr Barrio, to make a very succinct statement of the most relevant conclusions, which, on the other hand, some of them you have already pointed out. On the one hand, first of all, the Cooperatives Act leaves ample room for any kind of enterprise to be behind the establishment of housing cooperatives; we have to regulate this matter. The economic crisis and the strong credit restrictions of financial institutions, which have been maintained since 2008 for the sector, have something to do with this phenomenon, because they have led traditional construction companies and promoters to use the cooperative format as a tool to maintain part of their activity, without in all cases responding to the cooperative principles of involvement and participation of partners. Likewise, the public administrations, through the conditions and requirements in the award processes, it is true that we have favored this tendency to the growing activity promoter, because it was a sign of the times, through the form of cooperative. But not always because we liked it, because the proliferation of housing cooperatives can become a demand – and has sometimes been – from banking entities to promoters, in order to strengthen guarantees not always desired by the cooperatives, that what they simply want is access to a home. Secondly, the real estate crisis itself has been a decisive factor in triggering promotion via cooperatives, moving from a shelter for every 20 protected in 2008 to the current levels, at which, as you have pointed out, Mr Barrio, one out of every three protected housing units in Euskadi is promoted through housing cooperatives. And this, moreover, is precisely corroborating the assertion that I have previously made of the reasons why the banking institutions also try to encourage the promoters to build through the formula of housing cooperatives and construction companies, and it is that these strong credit restrictions that are being endured by many construction companies have led to the use of this type of mechanisms to access financing, which otherwise they would not have achieved, overcoming the original inspiring motives of this format, the cooperative principles of involvement and participation of the partners that in many cases have been diluted, precisely because the birth has been more by pressure from the financial institutions than by the will of the cooperative partners. You have to point it out. And this recovery in the activity of promoting housing cooperatives is evidenced by the indicators of activity associated with the consultations and the arbitration work carried out by the Supreme Council of Cooperatives of Euskadi, so that, in 2014, about half of the consultations related to the prevention of conflicts within Basque co-operativeism were related to housing cooperatives – statistical that has nothing to do with what housing cooperatives mean in all cooperatives in our country – surpassing those registered in any of the other co-operative formats. Thirdly, these kinds of tools, in promoting protected housing, have had positive experiences, it is true, allowing access to housing for a considerable number of citizens at a low and quality price, which is what was primarily concerned with the promotion of officially protected housing and with the social role of housing. Finally, as far as cooperative people are concerned, there are cases of ignorance of the actual commitments they are facing with the purchase of sheltered housing through cooperatives. Here I should say that in some cases I know they have not even really been aware that they were accessing the purchase of a home through being partners of a housing cooperative. They acquire an aliquot participation in a company that aims to promote housing and assume the risk associated with this business project in all its aspects, without knowing enough about this information. Taking these conclusions into account, the report of the Basque Housing Observatory considers it appropriate, therefore, to greatly improve the information and knowledge of the rights and obligations of the co-operatives, in order to enable a decision by them, at least, to be better informed; even if it is under pressure, even if it is under pressure, better informed. Without obviating this proposal, I must stress that there are currently complementary ways to improve information and communication to potential customers of the cooperative product, such as the systemic control actions that are also carried out through our department and the Vice-Council of Housing for this type of promotions, provided that they are promoted, obviously, through the condition of official protective housing. These controls involve the review of compliance with the requirements of award, deposit of financial guarantees, visa of all sales contracts by the Administration, and thus the aim is to ensure compliance with the basic requirements of the protected housing regulations, ranging from the existence of housing needs to the fulfilment of their social function and the non-existence of overprices, fundamental in our performance as Administration. These control and enforcement mechanisms are identical to those of the rest of the protected housing. Finally, in order to complete this first intervention, I have to highlight the regular and systematic inspection of the entire protected housing park, which ensures compliance with these basic principles over time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u68	Thank you, Mr. Toña. To answer, Monsieur Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u69	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Toña, Mr. Counselor. The truth is that we have agreed in the intervention, we have made almost the same assessment in relation to the situation: we must protect the cooperative as a fundamental element and we must develop the cooperative companies. That is why what the Basque Government is going to do now is so important. That is why it is so important how it will protect housing cooperatives, how it will protect cooperatives in that need that we have detected more information and clarification regarding their roles. That is why it is so important, Mr Toña, to bring the Cooperatives Act as a defining element. We have already talked about this in a previous plenary, and we must bring it, the law; before 2016, of course, and also for that laudable purpose of protecting the cooperatives and, moreover, of continuing to comply with what the recent Housing Act, also on the less discussed issues, has put on the table, the social role of public policy in the field of housing, services of general interest, and to link that, of course, with that formula of creating housing and, at the same time, of social economy based on the cooperative principles, which, of course, must be preserved and protected. That is why, Mr Toña, it is so important to bring that law, and this report on housing cooperatives has come at this opportune moment to push forward that demand, that political demand of that law. Because it is also that housing cooperatives are going to be part of that in what the predictable bill is going to innovate or be more advanced. The rest, many of the issues are well regulated, but as the preliminary draft law that we have had the opportunity to know, in the Cooperatives Act provided for in this legislature, the cooperative classification typology is where the most innovation has been made in the project – and that is also good for those needs that are now detected – it is for housing cooperatives, together with junior cooperatives or transport cooperatives. Housing cooperatives are the most innovative, with respect to housing cooperatives, maintaining the basic legislative design structure of previously regulated housing cooperatives and sharing with the rest of the autonomous and state legislation on this type of cooperatives, it is a question of ensuring that the basic decisions of the constitution and management are made by the cooperative principles, as we have said before, democratically, since its constitution. That has a lot to do with training, with information. In this sense, when the cooperative is promoted by a manager, the cooperative partners must, in any case, be the protagonists, so that they take the risk and have the real decision-making capacity. Those are issues that need to be defined and we believe that the bill that may come to this House can define them. Due to the professionalism that the real estate promotion requires, and given the way to join the partners of the cooperatives and their amount, it seems necessary to hire a manager who advises the construction, financing of the cooperative... Well, they are elements that come into play in relation to empowering and giving value to housing cooperatives. The cooperative that would like to settle such contracts would be compelled to assume the economic consequences arising... well, there are responsibilities, there are rights, there are obligations, but, well, they are identified. By ensuring in addition, in any case, the information, the transparency of all operations, delegated or not, of management are allowed operations with third parties up to a limit, that is, the obligation of the audit of accounts is maintained and figures are introduced (here speaks of lawyer-advisor)... Well, they are questionable issues, or technical ones, but in any case regulated in a new phase, at a new time when the draft project itself talks about that housing cooperatives will benefit the most, surely, by the normative and legislative clarity. By concurring with the regulations on building and, where appropriate, the promotion of officially protected housing, the basic legal regulation must be developed legally, logically, but that will be a second effort from the first, which must be the promotion and approval of the law. And on this issue, well, also the responsibility of the partners, the regulation of their pooled character, indeed, the contributions to capital, the amounts delivered for the building, that is, they are very important elements that come in what is an important draft for us, but that it has to come to this House; that it has to come to this House and that it has to come before the end of the year. To us, this inquiry will serve us to bring a motion to this House, so that before this year and as soon as possible the Cooperatives Act will come, because, among other issues, housing cooperatives will benefit from the clarity and the need for regulations that you yourself have identified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u70	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u71	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Well, I'll try to answer this how, Mr. Barrio. The intentions of the Department of Employment and Social Policy in relation to the normative development, first of all, of Law 3/2015 of 18 June on Housing, recently adopted. In its additional third provision regulates the model of assignment of use or Andel. This model, unlike the broad tradition in other countries of northern Europe, has not been applied to date in the Community in the promotion of free or protected housing. This specific regulation provided for in the Housing Act, accompanied by measures of support and encouragement by all the public administrations and the partnership itself with the Basque cooperative and associative fabric, could help, initially through experimentation with pilot projects and later creating a genuine and new market niche, to the cooperative impulse of collectives who want to participate actively in the promotion, design and construction of their homes under assignment of use as an alternative model to the traditional one. In addition to the above, from the point of view of substantive cooperative law, one of the aspects subject to review that it brings about the amendment of the Basque Cooperatives Act that is currently being dealt with is the revision of the regulation between the classes of cooperatives and the housing cooperative, as you, Mr Barrio, have pointed out and in which I hope we will find ourselves to enrich it in your parliamentary procedure. In this sense, and on the basic structure of the legislative design of the housing cooperative currently regulated and shared with the rest of the autonomous and state legislation on this type of cooperative, it is a question of ensuring that the basic decisions in the construction, management, are made by the cooperatives themselves democratically, since the very constitution of the cooperative, and not by force. This is to encourage, with more intensive regulation, the effective participation of cooperative partners in the promotion of their own homes. I have to warn you that the housing cooperative, like any cooperative society, develops a company to satisfy the housing needs of its partners, with the active participation of them, observing or having to observe the principles of cooperativeism. Therefore, it is subject to and therefore assumes the inherent business risk, although we all know cases of co-operatives of forced housing, as a result of the crisis settlement of the promoter society, and in order that buyers can make possible the termination of the housing without losing the amounts delivered to the cease-fire promoter. As for the control elements that are carried out from the Department of Employment and Social Policy, within the scope of our competence, which are the public official protection housing, the fulfilment of the need to endorse the amounts received on behalf of the promoter is being analysed. With regard to the need to provide clearer and more detailed information to those who wish to be co-operatives – a recommendation that is included in the report of the Basque Housing Observatory – from the Department of Employment, through the Vice-Council of Housing and also the Office of Employment, information notes will be prepared that collect both the rights and, in greater depth, the obligations of co-operatives, so that everyone knows what is being done. We are aware that there is a need to improve communication regarding the obligations of cooperative people, as these people assume the risk associated with this business project in all its aspects. We will make an effort to do so, also in collaboration with the Euskadi High Council of Cooperatives, which has collaborated in the drafting of the above-mentioned report. Finally, we must warn that this work is not just of the public administrations. The work of private actors involved in the promotion of housing through cooperatives is essential. They must inform homeowners of the obligations and rights that affect them, including financial institutions, which try to strengthen the guarantees of their credit, sometimes by concealing practices that we might say are not overly correct, since they must ensure that good practices are applied and that the rights and obligations of the partners of each promotion are respected, and more, if possible, when it comes to public protection housing that affects people who do not have a very high level of income.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u72	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interpologies made by the members of the Dava Blanco de Angulo EH Collector, to the head physician of the Police and Society, concerning the contribution of the immigrants." Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u73	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. From time to time we should put it on the surface of others to know different realities. That's what we want to do today, to put it on the cover of others, to understand what your country, your friends, your family, and your roots are supposed to leave behind, packed and bold, but forced to find a solution to the unfortunate situation of your life. That's the starting point of this interpelation. That's the state of thousands of people living among us. That's where we should begin to reflect deeply. If we do not know how to put thousands of immigrants on the skin of thousands, we shall hardly know the measures we have to set up. People, families who have left everything behind and come out looking for a more hopeful future. EH Bildu has always made it very clear that migrant people contribute much more to our society than they receive. The coexistence of different cultures, languages, origins, religions, the exchange of experiences, customs, are aspects that enrich any society, also Basque, of course. It's a difficult contribution to measure, to quantify, I know, we know. On the other hand, there is another type of input that can be quantified. The last report by Ikuspegi, the Basque Observatory of Immigration, has done so, which has come to confirm what many of us already knew and what others, however, have wanted to hide, when not to distort on the basis of half-truths and lies. Bai, etorkinek ongizais Egyptian statues diotene ekarpena jasotzen dutena askoz handiagoa da. Gehienetan, diru sarreran igoeraren root IRPF dellakoari eta Gizarte Segurantzaren kotizazioari esker da. According to the investigation of the view, the economic contribution of immigrants has been increased nearly two hundred million, exactly from 443 million to 631.) Their contribution is much greater than they receive from public services. The report shows, with concrete and objective figures, that the economic contribution of the immigrant population is far above what it receives through health, education or social benefits. The report dismantles the xenophobic and fallacious speech that some and some of them are trying to spread throughout Europe, an evil from which, unfortunately, we are not free in Euskal Herria, as in this very Parliament we have had the opportunity to check more than once. Ikuspegi shows what the reality is, opens our eyes, but all that information, certain and reliable, must not lead us to obviate another parallel reality, and it is that in a sensitive part of this society a certain perception about migrants persists. Ikuspegi's report contrasts with the negative stereotypes that unfortunately continue to exist in this field. That's why this interrogation. It's true that it's a pleasure, too, that the negative perceptions in the Imigration are going down, but we can't content ourselves with it: It's clear that there's still something to do in that area and that it's done with. As I have said before, some of them have been encouraged by a financial crisis against immigrants, and have nourished the speech of distrust and hatred. In short, they have been targeted because in crisis time enemies and guilty people are the easiest way out of the house. I am sure that the greater part of us here agree in this, the greater part of us agree with an idea: It is always harmful to put the citizens in opposition to each other. Unfounded accusations, stereotypes, the stigmatization of migrants harm us all and all, fragment society, arsonize coexistence and run counter to social cohesion. We could talk a lot about what the reviews are about, because the consequences that come in are obviously very carefully and deeply studied, but this time we're in a jam for fun, and our intention is to know the chief physician's answer. At this moment, we think we should take advantage of the data we've got on the table. That's why, we're clear that, uh, it's meant to make precise measurements for the public to be aggrieved, to find social cohesion. The view has put a very good instrument in your hands, you know, in order to do that job, in order to set up the precise initiative to demonbic speech, to improve each other's life, strengthen social cohesion. In the EH Collector's opinion, the xenhophobi isn't a theoretical risk, no. We're seeing all over Europe that's not how it is. There are severe consequences in a thousand persons, and to public institutions, the eau-Jaurariat, in this case, is to make war on the danger. This is just the purpose of this interpelation: When we agree in the diagnosis, we want to know what measures you intend to work in this area, what measures you will take to dismount stereotypes and prejudices we have just mentioned, and strengthen social cohesion.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u75	Congressman, good day. Many and many are the means by which this government has placed them, in order to oppose the orophone discourses. We'll agree, Mrs. Blanco. First of all, the first part of it is to keep them out of play. We don't have to give them more than they have. And I humbly say, we must not be made to think like them. For it is very common that those who use such stereotyped discourses, should desire society to see reality in so simple a manner, to agree with their point of view. It's the worst way to symplify reality to break their problems and challenges. Einstein once said it was easier to destroy an atom than a prejudice. This phrase is often repeated by the disciplined strategy of the rumours, and we-we-gau have very much to do with it. We are told by experts that many information does not necessarily break social prejudices. We commonly think that an objective information, or scientific data, break ideas from the root: we're absolutely wrong. Unfortunately, we are facing a marathon. They are not worth the heavy showers, but the rain that wets you but little, the tolera and the anbial, which gradually become mela-melettes, and which prevails in their view, not the most open-minded. That's what many experts tell us and do, what we do through our various programs. The operators in the third sector do it. With co-working agreements and agreements, our technical immigrations and the unions of our Cultural Organs. But this time we've got a fascinating study in our hands. It is hard to develop, and to make a great complexity, that a member of the local world has taken it out of view for over a year, namely the Full Housestone. What's that outside us? Well, the economic influence that the Imigration leaves is positive. And that's not relevant. One, we don't count nationality people. Second, we don't take into account the secret economy. We don't know, but we know what's there for them. And the third, the social, positive expense that they make in daily consumption, which 2008, which is the time of deep 2012 crisis. And in addition to this first conclusion of this study that we have read, studied with interest, I would like to point out some issues. In fact, income increased from 2008 to 2012, from years of bonanza to years of crisis, from 443 to 631 million, mainly due to the increase in the contributions of immigrants, the income tax of individuals, which shows a high occupation of the collective in the Basque labour market; otherwise, there would be no contributions or taxes. Secondly, in any case, the impact of the crisis is palpable and the balance has decreased from 71 million to 38, from 2008 to 2012. Thirdly, the impact of the economic crisis on the group of foreign nationals is clearly reflected in the increase in the amount they receive in the concept of economic benefits and social services, which indicates that it is one of the groups that has suffered the most from the impact of the crisis in our Community and that it is in a situation of greatest vulnerability, as all official studies and statistics corroborate. On the other hand, the data indicate that the widespread hypothesis in our society that the foreign nationality group contributes less than it receives through the social protection system is not based on real data. And I have to assure this House that we have endeavoured to ensure that the study that Ikuspegi has done is based on strictly rigorous and comparative data compared to other studies that have been carried out throughout the world. Fifthly, with regard to per capita expenditure, it is higher for the indigenous population than for the foreign population in social affairs. In 2008, this expenditure was EUR 3,170 per foreign person and EUR 3,650 for the total population. In 2012 the margin was smaller: 3,906 for a foreign person, 3,950 for the total. And sixthly, at all times the expense is higher for an indigenous person than for a foreigner. This is largely explained by the significant expenditure on certain items in which the foreign population has very little weight, such as, for example, health, benefits for dependency, higher education and what to say about pensions, which we, the indigenous population, charge and which foreigners barely reach and yet contribute. Finally, if we look at the demographic contribution, we have to highlight the clear positive impact of the foreign population on Basque demography, which means that our population has not declined in recent years, which means that the improvement has occurred in indicators such as birth rate, such as dependency rate, such as the rate of ageing. In this sense, we cannot leave aside all the economic implications for the welfare state's support of these indicators, the welfare state's support primarily for the indigenous population, which is partly supported by the foreign population. As a result, the study of this work shows us that the collective foreign identity manifests less a lie than the person who received it from the social protection system, as the facts show. This investigation, at this time when rumours are so close to the truths, is very useful, because it puts us on the top of the evidence. In this case, however, the whole thing is said to be in the same case. For we do not oppose opinions with a strong thought, but with facts. Almost undeniable data, which require us to go beyond suspicion of a discussion. From this study we may be able to work publicly, and from these facts we may be able to work socially, with more certainty, many of the agents who are now working against the rumours from the Basque corners; they are going, as Sisifo did, to destroy these stereotypes, and to teach them how to refute them, as Sisifo did, to alter these prejudices with some reasonable views.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u76	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u77	Thanks again. You said you've done a lot of equipment. In front of this, I'll give you the usual answer because we don't see the results. That's reality. With an institutional expression, with a beautiful picture, in an event, we get very little. That's what we really need here is pedagogy. That's what we think. And I tell you this because we can understand that sometimes there may be some difficulties in positioning ourselves against what part of this society thinks. It is true that there may be some fear or that there may be some fear, but precisely we have to work to ensure that when we make these kinds of statements, that when we launch these kinds of initiatives, in society they are seen to be absolutely normal. That would be the way we'd have to go. And we said pedagogy because we believe that you, too, as a government, know how to do it. I'm going to make a comparison. If we now approach any city, any town, any neighborhood and ask any neighbor or neighbor we find on the street what is the influenza vaccination campaign, who have to be vaccinated, who is now in progress, surely most would know how to answer. If we do the same exercise with the data from Ikuspegi's report, the difference would be remarkable. That's why I tell you that when you want to do pedagogy, you want to communicate, you really get it because you have tools in your hand to be able to do it. And what we're telling you to do is take advantage of those tools. Three years of the legislature and we have evolved very little, very little. That is what Ikuspegi's report says. Moreover, it is easy, because in the report they already say what are the groups or age ranges, the people we have most to focus on because they are the ones who have the worst perception against foreign people; then, they already give us many keys to be able to act. Three years, as we say, and little has evolved; however, the Gasteiztarra society has been able to organize itself – I am talking about the Gora Gasteiz initiative – and to pass us over 300 kilometers per hour. We've been over 300 kilometers an hour. If the Gasteiztar society has been able to organize itself and achieve what it has achieved, why not the Government? Why not the government? I do not know whether you consider that the area of the Directorate for Family and Community Policy needs to be strengthened, whether we will see it in the budget or not, because this too, of course, also involves a budgetary effort, we understand. Look, I'm going to end up telling you that in the background and in the diagnosis we are with you, and you know it, because we have demonstrated it in this Parliament more than once. If we are with you in the background and in the diagnosis of this situation, we can also be with you in seeking solutions and taking action. On this occasion they have us by their side; they have us on the left side, but they have us by their side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. As you know, the management of the family, politics, and community development of our department leads to a stable method of sensibilization within the institutional strategy, not so much, but it does not lead to socialization by strategy. In Catalonia, even if he began at Barcelona, and as you have mentioned, Gastenum, Eucatain, has spread with great force, driven by governments, and developed by different agents, such as breaking down the walls, SOS Racism, Cáritas, and other institutions of the third sector. And besides, the presence of the locals and municipals is important, for instance Gasteiz (said), Gecho, Bilbo... Within our system of support for immigrants, and more specifically in the Forum for the Integration and Social Participation of Citizens and Immigrant Citizens, in the work carried out by this commission, of participation, culture and awareness, these awareness-raising projects are promoted in society, in the fight against discrimination and stereotypes against or against immigrants. Also, in the chapter on promoting activities in favour of immigration in municipalities and municipalities, special consideration has been given to all projects that have worked on aspects of combating stereotypes and discrimination in the population. We've tried. We have made our tools available. In another respect, the establishment of the Eraberean Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Network has been promoted, in collaboration with 12 third-sector entities working in the areas of discrimination against both immigration and affective-sexual diversity and the Roma people. We have supported, supported and will continue to support the activities of the Harresiak Apurtuz Immigrants Support Coordinator in all that makes it possible not to stigmatize immigrants and their process of normalization in our society. I'd like to take this opportunity to remind you of the strategic possibilities we can have on work done, a document about the social pact for Immigration. He said, amongst other things, that multiplicity is a part of our history and our collective personality, and that foreign Imigration has made the multiplicity more complex and has increased the multiplicity which was in the community of eroscal. In this treaty there was proposed a triple purpose for the games: on the other hand, to encourage social and institutional agents to take specific commitments upon certain points; and thirdly, to send a great message to society, by the process of social modification, which the coming of the Imigrantes gives them positive results. Now, if we're in favor of expanding strategy and playing networking against xnophobic, we'd have to join together with a deal between games and organizations, multiplicity and immigration. We're ready to make a road, are you ready? In fact, suspicion makes us think that one of the two of Europe will freeze our hearts.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u80	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, the classmate of the Basque Sociialists of the United States, made of Eplegus and the head physician of the Polic Society, about the study of the craft of the work." Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u81	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Egun on, ladies and gentlemen, sailburu. In our Autonomous Community, 12,000 people are in a sad situation of having to accept precarious jobs, with short-term contracts and insufficient working hours, with monthly incomes that do not even cover their basic needs, which is why they are forced to supplement their income with Income Guarantee Income. One fifth of the persons who provide social benefits are workers who supplement their income. In just one year, this figure has increased by 40%. These data clearly indicate that a new social class, that of labour poverty, is being consolidated. A year ago, in full case to tackle unemployment and poverty, we asked the Basque Government to draw up a specific report within six months on real poverty resulting from job insecurity and wage insufficiency. We consider it necessary to know the hidden reality of the false self-employed, for example, of the self-employed who cover up real jobs or of young people who do not emancipate, whose situation is covered up by living with their aitas. We wanted measures to be taken to alleviate this situation. It is not enough to complain about unfair labour reform, counselor. We believe that the only data we know is because the Socialist Group has requested them in control initiatives. That is why, already well past the mandated deadline, we ask him: when does the Government plan to fulfil the parliamentary mandate to present in this House a study on real poverty resulting from job insecurity and wage insufficiency?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u82	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. Please be quiet. Mr. Toña, your word is to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u83	Good day, ladies, chief of Parliament. The organ in the bureau has a chance of opening a study on the most important measures of actual labor. It's based on a module adapted to the incest of poverty and social differences that involves the inquest of social requests within 2014. This module considered the purpose of examining the deficiencies of poverty and of Eucharistic well-being, and of emphasising those which were used in the European Union, and of which PDSIs expressly produced. You know, Mrs Sarasua, that not everything is in our hands, but, well; based on the exploitation of the data we have we can advance the following data: the volume of people in real poverty in households with an occupied person has experienced ups and downs, but it has been reduced from 75,100 people to 44,000 – remarkable reduction – between 1996 and 2004. And in the absence of real welfare there would be 112,000 people. Secondly, most of the people affected are also marginalized from situations of poverty and lack of well-being. Most live in conditions where well-being predominates, mattized, however, by relevant risks to maintain that well-being, everything has to be said, of course. Thirdly, 3.2% of households with an employed person entered the income guarantee system in 2014 at some point during the previous 12 months. Access shows high stability, with oscillations between a minimum of 3.1 in 2006 and a maximum of 3.6 in 2010. And fourthly, it should be noted that the income-guarantee income support policy made our own – our own, I say, our own – in relation to the occupied population focuses not only on combating poverty, but on facilitating incentives for employment and ensuring higher levels of well-being for the occupied population. Consequently, an increase in the number of beneficiaries of GIR benefits, supplementary benefit or emergency aid does not mean an immediate and parallel increase in labour poverty.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u84	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u85	Thank you. Counselor, you refer us to the 2014 study of poverty and lack of well-being and tell us that not everything is in your hands. You have spent the time giving us data again, but you have not answered the question we have asked you. You have one year left and three left, Counselor. I remind him that, at our insistence, he was forced to answer us with information from his department. You came to admit that jobs are increasingly precarious, of short duration and of insufficient days; even people who have accessed a job of a certain quality may need to return to the social protection system in short time. Something that's palpable on the street and something that tells us who works day by day with people at risk of exclusion. That is why we are asking for the study that was supported by this House, not because the Socialists are here to annoy the government, much less, Mr Councillor; on the contrary, it has been a year and a report that should be a priority is not being drawn up. Socialists firmly believe that we have instruments in our hands to decide where we want to take this society, and we believe that they should be used to recover people and families. This society cannot and should not be condemned to structural poverty, because unworthy wages not only condemn working people to be linked to social assistance, but also leave them to the disadvantage that if they lose their jobs, they will have little entitlement to benefits, they will not have contributed enough for their retirement. Moreover, it conditions the structure of the public pension system, because even by increasing the activity and number of social security affiliations, these very small contributions are insufficient to meet current pensions, as is demonstrating the repeated need to go to the reserve fund. That is why we ask you again to do this study and to comply with what this Parliament has agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u87	I reply, Mrs Sarasua: before the end of the year the study will be available. As a result of what I said earlier, the crisis has worked in our view more as filtering and selection between occupied and unoccupied persons, so that people who in the pre-crisis situation were precariously or unsteadily occupied are now engulfing ranks of the unoccupied, and this does not lead to an increase in real poverty of the type of work, which is an absolute figure of about 44,000 people. This means that, to a large extent, those who are busy today in Euskadi live far away from real poverty, and this new phenomenon is leading us to rethink and rethink what has come to be called the crisis of labour citizenship. On the one hand, we hope that this situation can be remedied as the economic situation improves, and on the other hand it must be borne in mind that the dynamics of the productive system, and in particular through the increase in part-time work and wage stabilization, can encourage an increase in the groups potentially benefiting from the GIR and, in addition, benefits from the Basque system of protection. In other words, the period in which we are living during the recovery season is possible as a possibility of the most imperfect possible examples, the application to the system, considering the busy inhabitants of the house which they work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u88	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interrament, Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-Judgish member of the U.S.UPyD team to the head of the Board of Education, the politics, and the Cultural Schools of Sex in Gastian Schools, about Euskating Education, Sciences, and Cultural Acts. " Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u89	Thank you, President. Madam Counsellor, last October 8th we received your answer to a question from us concerning the actions carried out by your department at the Luis Dorao school in Vitoria in the face of a case of possible sexual abuse of a little girl. In his reply, he stated that there was no protocol for dealing with alleged sexual abuse of minors at school. This is already true, but the curious thing is that the father of one of the alleged victims of one of the alleged abuses ensures that both the school and Ararteko ensured that the protocol for this type of cases had been activated. Therefore, this is one of the first things that you have to clarify, whether there is a protocol or no protocol, and whether it is true that you said the protocol was put in place. On the other hand, you assured that the case had been closed, as numerous testimonies and investigations had been collected which concluded that it was impossible to impute even any wrong behavior to the teacher concerned. On Thursday, 22 October, press reports state that the Office of the Prosecutor investigates at least four cases of minors who may have been abused by the same teacher, showing that the prosecutor informed his department of these investigations at a meeting held on 20 October 2014, attended by Josu Izaguirre, Álava prosecutor, the juvenile delegate prosecutor, the Basque Government's education delegate, the head education inspector and the area inspector. Similarly, sources from the City Council of Vitoria have confirmed that they dealt with complaints from four minors who were subjected to psychological evaluation, confirming the veracity of the reported facts and giving the Department of Education a hearing. In this way, it is confirmed that Education was aware of the facts and, instead of removing from the children the teacher who allegedly committed the abuses, it closed the investigation, stating in a parliamentary reply that the impossibility of imputing even any wrong behavior to the teacher concerned was the reason why you had acted in this way. Curiously, it is removed a few days ago, when the scandal jumps into the media, as a result of his written answer to this question by UPyD. Finally, it is important to note that, following the countless procedures carried out by the girl's family in order to be able to move her from the centre, it turned out that the teacher who allegedly committed the abuses was transferred to the same centre as the minor, which is at least a reckless recklessness. Anyway, counselor, you have to explain all this, and you have the opportunity to do so in this inquiry. Don't say you're gonna explain it in a few days' time in your appearance, no. You have to explain this case today, here, and explain each of these questions that I have asked you. It is important, therefore, that you explain yourself correctly and explain the actions carried out. Having studied the matter thoroughly, and always taking into account her own claims, the statements of the delegate in Álava, the statements and statements of the prosecutor, and those of the ikastola to which she moved to the little one in January, taking into account all that, we conclude that there have been countless errors here. There have been reckless acts, contradictions and lies raised and spoken by certain representatives of this Government. Therefore, all this has to be clarified by you. Is there a protocol for this type of case or is there no protocol? The father of one of the girls was told that the protocol had been applied. In a parliamentary response, you say that there is no protocol. The fact that there is no protocol is already serious, but it is equally serious that the department lies about this issue. You have to explain the reasons why you point out that you were not aware of the cases of abuse, when the truth is that both the City Council of Vitoria and the prosecution itself inform you of this. You have to clarify, you have to explain this. You say you had no knowledge, when, in fact, it is shown that you were informed of these cases. It must also explain the lack of coordination between the various institutions. It must also explain the delay in making the change of centre of the girl. You have to explain, you have to say why it took so long. You have to explain a lot of things. The fact that the alleged victim and the alleged assailant coincided with the ikastola to which the girl was transferred, which denies that she was being watched, by the way. You say that this teacher was being watched by the Department of Education, and it turns out that they match this teacher with the girl in this ikastola to which she is being transferred in January. You have to explain. You have a chance to explain. You also have to explain why you said you informed the ikastola, when it turns out that the ikastola itself says you were not informed. And you have to explain why the professor was section 403 days after Education knew the case by the prosecution. It has to explain why Education took more than a year to remove the teacher. You have to explain. And you have to explain why you decide to take the professor away at the time this matter goes to the media and not before. They have to explain, therefore, why they did not protect boys and girls. You have to explain. You're on that chance, you should be able to do it. You also have to answer the question as to whether it is true that the teacher allegedly investigated went through four different schools while being investigated for abuse, which would be a serious negligence. I say, in our opinion, and always taking into account their own statements, statements by different representatives of the Basque Government, here we are faced with a very serious case, very serious cases and where enormous errors have occurred on the part of the Department of Education. We understand, unless you prove otherwise, that mistakes have been made, that there are contradictions, that recklessness has been committed and – something I believe is perfectly proven – that you have lied on several occasions. They are, I say, certainly serious facts. Depending on the answer given, we will ask that the lehendakari dismiss her as Education Advisor. No, the thing is not to laugh, I understand. The matter is not to laugh, because this case has to be clarified and we want the department to clarify it and tell us the truth. Because it has been perfectly demonstrated during the last few days that there has been a cluster of lies maintained by the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u90	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u91	President andrea. Mr Maneiro, I believe that I have been sufficiently clear in my previous reply. In any case, let me reiterate and emphasize the main ideas. The safety of our children is the highest priority of the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture. In this case you have been guaranteeing it at all times. This department always acts, since it has the slightest suspicion of risk to the physical, psychological and moral integrity of our minors. The way of dealing with any suspicion, as little as possible, begins by protecting the child or the child alleged to be a victim of sexual abuse in the first place. Secondly, to protect the rest of the children. And third, preserve the presumption of innocence of the teacher alleged to be involved. In the case before us, we have acted at all times with legality, professionalism and preserving the rights of all. Despite the follow-up carried out by the department, the social services of the city council and the prosecutor's office, today the professor is not charged, since there is no evidence of this. The senior prosecutor himself corroborated this week. However, if there is evidence or evidence, it will be the justice that will have to decide on it. I therefore reiterate that there has been no risk situation for our children. That's why it's important to send a peace message to families, to education community and society. The fact that this matter has become a subject of communication has caused me uneasiness, and I desire to ask all of us to reflect on the treatment and use of these cases, which are so delicate. When I have said this, Mr. Maniro, I shall try to relate the activities which this department has performed, and I repeat, that he has every moment behaved in a proper and professional manner. As I have said before, the taking of hands is always immediately performed, at the very moment when the pupil is informed of some event which makes him feel that he may be in a state of danger. These conditions are generally detected by the same schools or municipal services, and at that very moment the procedure of collecting information is set to work by a discreet transition to the situation. You ask me about the protocol of action in the face of these kinds of situations. As I said, there is no written protocol that includes the actions of all the actors involved in situations like this, which I think would be interesting to address at the earliest time in order to strengthen the necessary inter-institutional coordination. What does exist is a systematized procedure, an action plan that the department implements when these cases are detected or reported. The steps that follow are the following. The first intervention in the face of any suspicion or complaint is to protect the alleged victim, as well as the rest of the children in the centre. There follows discreet monitoring, while contacting the specialized services of the deputies and municipalities and, at the slightest indication of veracity, the Department of Education complains to the Office of the Prosecutor for Minors. Unfortunately, we have had to act in this way on more than one occasion, and the experience gained during all these years has been the main guide in defining this procedure. In any case, this department considers it necessary to take one more step. We are going to draw up a protocol containing this procedure, and we believe that the other institutions involved should also be included in that protocol, in order to ensure maximum effectiveness. We must be able to get something positive out of this. Once the protocol for education has been drawn up, it will be opposed to the other institutions, parliaments, municipalities and the Office of the Prosecutor for Minors. This interinstitutional protocol could avoid, among other things, the lack of coordination necessary to share relevant information that we understand has occurred on this occasion. I am referring to the fact that the prosecution did not inform us of the opening of an investigation in June 2014, i.e., four months before the department was called to a meeting to request information, giving the prosecution the fact that this was the process of communicating the investigation that was under way. Or what is even more important, we were also not informed of the transfer of the investigation to the court in June 2015. The information collected by the prosecution during all that time remains an unknown to us, although if we listen to the words of the superior prosecutor, there does not seem to be any significant developments. And about the case the council investigates, or the cases it investigates. We can't count the contents of these cases exactly, and still less identify them. But this state has not been a hindrance to the circumstances which aroused suspicion of being dangerous to the student, in order that this series may continue closely. Above all, the course has been made through the inspection, the representative of the Land, the Newion, or the Manager of the Schools. According to the information available to this department, today there is no evidence or evidence that there has been any misconduct on the part of the teacher. No evidence has been found either on our part or, apparently, on the part of the prosecution, according to Mr Calparsoro's statements. What happens here is that this teacher is supposedly "suspect" – and I shatter it – for a complaint that took place in 2013, a complaint that led, on the one hand, to a follow-up, observation and control by the Department of Education and, on the other hand, to the investigation of the Juvenile Prosecutor's Office. But it all ended with the file of the case by the judge for lack of evidence, that is, the professor is in full possession of his rights. This department, as a precaution, for responsibility, for providing the maximum guarantee of security for minors, continued with monitoring and surveillance towards the teacher, as usual, despite the fact that the case has been closed. And I assure you that during all this time that such follow-up has been carried out, since March 2013, there has been no indication of incorrect or much less criminal behaviour on your part. As for the father who promoted the complaint, in 2013 – a case already closed, as I have already told you – we consider that the family has been properly cared for through continued telephone contact; meetings with both the center and the department. There has also been psychological care and follow-up close to the girl child. From the very first moment he was offered the possibility of a change of centre, offering up to seven centers available, without any being accepted, for not being the specific center that the family requested. In any case, since January 2015, the girl has been enrolled in the centre that the family wanted, and according to the information transferred by the centre, the presence of the girl is normal. Now, again, all eyes are on this teacher. And the reason is, this teacher has been to one of the schools where any possible case has been detected. When we asked the list of professors who have been in those schools from the municipal societies, there was a coincidence in time. Yet, according to the information of this department, there has not been found any sign, not the slightest sign, to say that there is some relation between this professor and these supposed Gastian cases. In fact, in a specific case in which the department has been working for a long time, the same management of the centre advised the city that it was impossible for the appointed teacher to have anything to do with it, since the minor's conduct problems had begun two courses before this teacher arrived at the centre. This particular case was the subject of the meeting held on 20 October 2014 at the prosecutor's office, at the request of the prosecutor of Álava. At that meeting, both the education delegate and the head inspector of Álava and the inspector in charge of the centre in question reported that they had not detected any evidence that might involve the teacher in question. At the meeting, the delegate was not informed that an investigation had been open for four months, nor was she requested to take any precautionary measures in that regard. After a year, the prosecution continued without asking the professor to take any temporary measure against this professor. This story seems meaningful to me. After this meeting with the Prosecutor, the division never heard of them again, nor even after a year's delay, when they were sent to court. However, this department continued its discreet follow-up work, as we always do in similar cases. I insist, there has been no evidence or risk to any of the minors.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u93	Thank you, Counselor. A previous question: Do you know if in September 2014 the Civil Guard took a diligence to three schools with the names and surnames of all possible victims? Do you have any knowledge of this fact? You insist, you initially insisted, that the teacher is not imputed. Indeed, the teacher is still unaccounted for. However, you, a few days ago, when this matter comes out to the lecture and you inform the media about it, decide to turn it off. Why do they decide to take him away a few days ago and not when they were aware of these facts? We understand that boys and girls were put at risk. The professor is still unaccused, but, in fact, you were aware of these facts and decided not to separate it. What has changed so that last week they decided to take this teacher away? What's changed? He acknowledged that there was no protocol for dealing with such cases; why, then, was he told the father of one of the girls that the protocol had been applied? Why did you lie? And, in any case, why don't we have an action protocol for these cases, which is your responsibility? I want you to explain to me the reasons why you have pointed out that you were not aware of the cases of abuse, when the truth is that both the City Council of Vitoria and the prosecution itself inform you of this. The City Hall of Vitoria itself. I mean, why are they lying about this? Why do they say they had no knowledge, when the City Council of Vitoria had already informed them of these cases? She has neither explained nor justified the delay in making the change of centre of the girl child. And so much that this teacher was watched, why did this teacher get matched with the girl in this ikastola that the girl is taken to in January? How can you say that you were perfectly guarded and it turns out that they match the alleged assailant and the alleged victim? This deserves an explanation: how is this possible to happen? And why did you say you informed the Ikastola, when the Ikastola has denied these claims of your department? Why do you say that the ikastola was informed, when it really was not so and the ikastola itself has said that, in fact, it was not informed? Why are they lying? I mean, apart from the mistakes that are perfectly proven, and I've explained them, why do they say things that are not true? Why have they tried to deceive the citizenry? I say, I am based on your statements and on the written answer given to a parliamentary question. How is it possible for the teacher to depart more than a year after you knew that there had been or could have been alleged abuses? How is it possible to put boys and girls at risk in this way? How is it possible that this teacher is allowed to go from center to center during all these months? How is this possible? And all this, of course, has not been clarified by you, so we are going to register a motion for this Parliament to ask the Lehendakari to dismiss the councilwoman. Clear mistakes committed, clear mistakes committed, lack of diligence, certainly regrettable acts and lies, lies uncovered during the last few days by different media. We do not present such initiatives to bring the Government together. Our mission is to control the Government and prevent such events from happening again in the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u94	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u95	Mr Maneiro, your statements seem serious to me, but I will try to continue to respond to the questions you have been raising. As I have told you before, an investigation was carried out in 2013 with regard to this professor, an investigation that concluded without any indication or evidence of incorrect behavior on his part. Consequently, the case was closed both by the department and by the prosecution. However, the department has continued to follow closely but very discreetly this teacher; it has done so motu proprio, for responsibility and in a discreet manner in attention to the presumption of innocence of the teacher and also so that, if there really was any crime, the author would not warn that he was being monitored. Thus they were asked to cooperate with those who were indispensable, and these alone had information about this matter. In the courses of 2012-2013 and 2013-2014, the whole course of the course of the professor's activities took place in the complete co-ordination of inspection and school managers. In the course of the year 2014-2015 study, he followed the discreet custody of the school manager. This year's 2015-2016 study has continued in custody. So on September 14th, the show went to school to study the situation. I put the professor down at the school, interviews with several professors, this teacher was involved, and I had a first relationship with the new director. After all, the object of the vision was to know the circumstances and examine the possible measures, and to know the proper persons to carry them on. This visit proved that the state of the school had been completely normalized. In addition, there is a case that the teacher would be in a period of adaptation until the beginning of October, so that he would always be accompanied, even by three and four people, at specific times. It was also noted that she would also be accompanied throughout the course by an assistant who met the special educational needs in the classroom, which provided greater security and guarantees. Therefore, the inspection decided to carry out the initial follow-up, without the need to immediately involve the newly opened management of the centre, thus giving them the necessary time to fully assume the new responsibilities before informing them of the situation. Mr. Maneiro, the accusation you're making is very serious. You accuse me of lying, you accuse us of lying, and I don't think you're being fair. We passed on to Parliament the information we had at the time. In reply to Parliament we indicate that the involvement of management has been sought, which is how it has been done in previous courses. However, in this case, the inspection, on the basis of its professional criteria, decides to carry out the monitoring directly, when it detects that this is a new direction and that the situation is controlled. I would later inform the management in a detailed manner. This was reported the day before yesterday to the parent society and to the management of the school. The necessary information about this case was given to them. In this meeting, this teacher, the directors of the two schools who had worked for the past two years, and also the Father Associations. It's been reported that the testimony of these directors served the family relief. Another of the issues that has been mentioned during these days is whether it could have been avoided that the teacher and the girl coincide again. The first thing I have to say is that I regret that this situation has occurred; it is not beneficial to anyone, but difficult to avoid. We must remember that we are talking about a person in full of his rights, without any imputation. This person asked for a place in Vitoria-Gasteiz, did not ask for this center or that other, as has been suggested. By chance, he wanted this coincidence to happen. The only way we could have avoided that would have been by acting outside the norm, that is, by skipping our own award system. Besides, it must be remembered that the project of the plates was made in August. At that moment we didn't know that the court's features were open, open from June 2015. This information, as you know, was communicated to us on Friday last week by the Assistant Basque Prosecutor. Given the social alarm generated around this case...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u96	Thank you. Thank you, chief physician, your time is over. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, María Isabel Celaa Déguez, a member of the Basque Socialists, made to the head of the Board of Education, of Education, of Education, of the 2016 public sacrifice of the Board of Education." Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. With your permission, I will ask the question from my seat. Mrs Uriarte, what kind of public job offer are you going to make in 2016? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u99	President andrea. Mrs Celaá, the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture positively values the stability of the staff of education professionals. This is undoubtedly one of the favourable factors for improving the education system, and consequently for improving the comprehensive training and education of our pupils, in line with the views of the various educational and social actors and with the endorsement, in addition, of international evaluations. On the basis of this conviction, this department has sought from the Ministry, on various occasions, and in all the bodies to which it has had access, the competence to make the fundamental decisions about public employment offers and, of course, that the number of places convened is not restricted by state law and can respond to the real needs of the Basque administration. As you know, in this year 215-16, 275 teachers have begun their practice after the last EPE has been defeated. So 275 people have got a stable job on this offer for public employment. As you know, it was made with the greatest number of squares that could be offered within the legality, and it was accomplished without success or accident. In the same way, you know, because the President himself had advanced in this parliament to discuss general politics, he was working with a new offer for public education at 20Y16. Consequently, this new public offer has been successfully collected in the project of the budgets of 2016 which this legislature will soon discuss. Today we already know what is set out in the Law on General Budgets of the State for the year 2016 in relation to public offers of employment. The Act continues to maintain a limitation on the number of places an educational administration can offer, although the current replacement rate has been set at 100% of the net losses of fixed teachers in 2015. That percentage is short for our wishes. Years of limitations in this regard have increased our needs. We would like the only limit to be that we ourselves set ourselves as the Basque Government, not the central government tax.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u101	Good morning, everyone. Yes, Counselor, I... we agree in your theoretical discourse on the stability of the faculty and its impact on quality. But what happens is that his speech, his speech is contradictory to his works, completely contradictory to his practice; the speech and the appeal go separately. You started school almost two months ago and you have not yet met with workers' representatives. I know you've summoned them, question through, by November 5th, but, look, you have the working conditions regulatory agreement, which I myself was able to sign with the workers' representatives, expired more than 3 years ago. You don't negotiate anything with the workers' representatives. And what happens to workers' representatives is what happens to workers. That is, the worker, the teacher, the teachers, the teachers are the pillar of the system. With good teachers, with stable, identifiable teachers, identifiable teaching teams, you make quality, but with teachers among whom there is more than 30% interinity at the moment... that is, in the previous legislature we were able to bring it back to 17%. You haven't actually made a public offer in 2013, or a public offer in 2014, and a very low offer in 2015. You have almost 6,000 interims in the system. 6,000 interims is more than 30% interinity, and that's not stability in the teaching staff, that's not quality. And besides, you don't negotiate with workers' representatives. You have to make and you have to dare to make a public job offer of an amount equivalent to almost 1,000 teachers, 1,000 the offer, an offer of almost 1,000 people. And besides, you have to announce it as soon as possible, because people have to prepare it. And don't tell me about the central government, because the central government is negotiating. Because at this time there will be no administration throughout the Spanish nation that has more than 30% interinity in its teaching teams. Therefore, only with retirements and only with deaths could you arrive, according to the calculations made by the trade union representatives, at an offer equivalent to 1,000 people. So, I, what I do is to encourage you with this question, to encourage you to dare, to encourage you to do so, and, above all, to announce it soon, to announce it soon because people have to have the right to prepare your exam in order to stabilize the templates and to stay and link to the center plans. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u103	Mrs Celaá, as I said in my first speech, we fully share the vital importance of the stability of teaching teams for the continuous improvement of our education system and the consequent need for new calls. Now, Mrs. Celaá, as you have responsibilities in education, and therefore as you know the rules and procedures which lead the Education Administration, it is impossible for you to doubt the conduct of the Government. You should know that our object in this matter is to secure a greater stability for the employment of teachers, to protect the legal security, so that the hopes and efforts of the candidates may not be discouraged. The department is analysing the data and situations of the teaching staff with a view to determining the precise number of places that will be the subject of the call and the teaching staff or bodies to which these places are addressed, and always with the greatest legal guarantee. And, of course, talking, negotiating. As you have said, we have already scheduled a meeting on the 5th. In any case, it is necessary to wait until the end of 2015 to know exactly some of the data, such as those relating to retirements and other unforeseeable losses due to various causes and to be able to define the total number of places. You can be sure that we will offer as many places as possible. I appreciate your encouragement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask you, Estoy Breñas González de Zárate EH Team Members for Education, Language Politics, and Cultural Division, about reconstructing the dome of the Royal Palace of Donostian Bellas Arts." Mrs Breñas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u105	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. Madame Presidency, who had taken possession of Sade, the week before, by order of the Town Hall of Donostia, and of the Gipuzian Modal Forum, and by the protection of the Abyse, had taken possession of the immediate disaster. They have also ordered Sade to build the philological reconstruction of the dome, but without giving any time to do it, and without requiring any project, to be able to rebuild it with all its solid domes. In the meantime Sade clearly declared that he had no intention of renewing the dome with the danger which it brought to the building, because we all know how a house without a roof ends. On the other hand, Sade, and the Mayor of Heaven, have begun to say that the building itself is not well, and that view revives the intention of making a hotel in Sade. The building is protected by funk and, in order to keep the building from falling and standing up, it's just fun to watch the building and rebuild the dome, even if it's subsidioly, according to the Basque Act, in its article of 35.2 and if you think it's fair, the owner can be asked to pay for the cost of jobs. We have arrived in this situation because the authorities have not been responsible for not being responsible, because you don't have to demand it to their owner to guard this historic building, and he can be on the verge of disappearing for a few days without the dome, as we said. We thought Sade's plan was to let the building go at first, and with that pretext it might have been the first step to throw it away. That's what's happening with the city's support, the town hall, and the funk, because there's no guarantee that he's going to force Sade back to the dome. The economic interests over the defense of the estate, and it's even more serious when we're at the gates of Donostia 2016 and the capital of Donostia being the capital of the cinema. With these facts, the only thing we can think of is that the indifference to the estate is in front of another case, and that you have signed the death of the building and already held to Sade's interest. It looks like you're gonna let the protected building die in order to make a hotel there, so that you can join the public money with the interests of the private firm Sade. Hala ere, pas den ostiralean hauxe esan zuen Enrique Ramos Donostiako Udaleko Hirigintzako zinegotziak: "No matter what the Sade says, the council, the parliament and the Basque Government have demanded the replacement. If he does not, he will be forced to do so and, if not, a subsidiary execution will be made." And we'd like to know if that's true. Before this our question is in the same line: "Merch, unless Sadd does, will rebuild the dome of the Donostian Bellas Artes Palace subsidyically, according to the law of Euskal Kultur Ondare?" That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u106	Thank you, Mrs Breñas. I'm happy. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u107	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs. Breñas, New York, New York, we're working on the Gypian Fordundia and the City Hall together with mutual consent and coordination as to the Building of the Fine Arts of Donostia. Sade was properly given to the company about the dome recently made, and this company has already begun to act. We also informed the media by a report of the press agreed on by the three institutions. This decision required, not only that they should withdraw the dome, but also that they should rebuild it. The reason for this is very simple: The dome was clearly on the ruins, for it was in a highly advanced state of disintegration that had been armed at the beginning of the century. This is why, in the co-ordinated manner of the three institutions, I arrange the order to re-establish it in the philological form of the dome. That means: The beginning project of the palace of the Fine Arts, and what really has been accomplished, must be made to rebuild the dome. At the present moment the dome has withdrawn, and then it will have to be rebuilt under the stated conditions. The company is going to have to rebuild that or, if necessary, it'll be able to make the Gipuzian Modulous Forge straight with the Donostian City and the Basque mad, to make sure the works can't be postponed. That's not gonna be a problem with the cost of these jobs in order to be able to ask the company. That's what appears in the law of the Ondare you mentioned. Therefore, in response to your question, this Government is not going to rebuild the dome, but will take the necessary steps, will collaborate with the institutions involved, even participating in the co-financing of it, if necessary and so agreed for it to be properly rebuilt.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs Breñas shouldn't talk. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask you, Estoy Breñas González de Zárate EH Collectorate's parliamentary parliamentary members for education, politics, and Cultural Council, "about the date of the new site of the "Anchosket." Mrs Breñas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u109	Thank you. First of all, I'd like to say hello to the Aborators of the SOS Aborators on the platform, up there, welcome to everyone and see if you'd like to join us today with a specific engagement for fun. At least that's what we'd like on our team. In this sense, it must be said, this is not the history of a simple ship, which is not the history of a single family, but the history of the inheritance of all, which is the business of all, and which can be an example of the rapid course of inheritance, before the great state of the ship has not been delayed. In short, this is more or less the history of the oldest tunacans in the "Anchovy" community. In 1997, it's the tuna that comes to the museum at full season, in October 2015 it's the EZAZA, which is now in a very serious state. What happened between you and me is this: I had no care for museums and authorities, and the pile of lies to cover it, with the attempt of the museum to remove the boat from the middle of a night of last November. So, on the 7th of October last year, the chief physician decides that the ship has no future and that it is not to be recovered, you decided, on account of his disaster, on the report of Tecnali. This report was not only a significant fault, but the Cultural Committee of the legislature considered useless, and we ordered a more complete report. Finally, the report of Albala arrived at the end of June this year. In the report, the patrimony of the "Anvitorage," the maintenance and recovery of the situation, are received, and he says it is not too late to recover the ship, although its damages are serious, yet they can be repaired by taking hold of the incest of their time. I'm sorry, so he decides to get the boat back at the end of July this year, in three stages: first, to seek a convenient place, the second to cure it, and the third to restore and rebuild the ship according to the recommendations of Albala's report. So the first step is to take it to the new position, the Basque Bridge. But it's not done yet. Ever since this decision has been made, it has been a matter of months and initiation, and the state of the ship is becoming more and more serious. We can see these pictures. [[Shows some photos]] For example, this is the picture that was taken to the museum. You can see he's in the right shape. This is the photograph of the museum at 2003. Previous, 1997. This is his position in July, and that is what he now has, since he has been in the museum, and then the initiation of the authorities. This is the state of the "Anchovy" today, completely damaged. According to the answer given to a written question, the section has already given the first steps to bring the ship to the new location. On the one hand, he's contacted the council to give us information about the new location and coordinate the moving process. And on the other hand, he's made a motion to move into a special company. All right, but you didn't answer us to see when, that is, what precise date it's going to be, that's the most urgent thing to do. And therefore we ask the same question: Did you have a precise date when you planned to take the Bilbo Basque Basque ship over to the bridge? We just want a specific date. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u110	Thank you, Mrs Breñas. It's your word, Mrs. Uriart.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u111	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Breñas, last week we answered your written question on this subject. I explained to you that our plan was to transport the fishing ship to the new location the Albano company proposed, the Basque Bilbo, under the bridge. I hope you will know this report well, because he sent it to the legislature on the 26th of June, in obedience to the proposal as approved by the Cultural Committee. Besides, if I'm not mistaken, you-you introduced the other proposal just as it was at the beginning of the year. In this report made by Albala, some parties are insisted on, and, as I think important, I want to remind them here. First, in order to stabilize the "Anvilet" ship, it is implied that it is necessary to seek a proper position, and for this purpose the Basque proposes the bridge (the new challenge is the first great challenge), and secondly, that the ship is in a process of degradation without retrograde, and the third indicates need of taking measures from a global view of the stock of the sea. As we answered in writing, the first steps were given to convey the ship to the new location, while the other was contacted with the council to give us information about the new location and coordinate the process of carrying it. Atzo bertan jaso genuine Bilboko Udalaren weretzuna, itsasontzia Euskalduna zubipean kokatzea ezinezkoa of the adriaziz. Thus, the Bilbao City Council has informed us of the impossibility of locating the ship in the place indicated by Albaola in his report. Consequently, the Basque Government has begun to analyse the possibility of moving the ship to another place. However, the size of the vessel and the complexity involved in the transport of parts of that size make it likely to cost even more than the total cost foreseen in Albaola's report for the full intervention on the ship "Antxustegi". We therefore need to rethink this situation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the United States of the Pogula, Javier Ruiz de Arbulus, Eureio, a member of the United States of the Pogula, "about the annihilation of the union elections of the Border." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Mrs Beltrán de Heredia, the Ertzaintza elections were held a year ago today. Today, by chance, the procedure of those elections ended, of which recently a judgement on the contentious-administrative nature of a court in Bilbao has told us that they are null and void and therefore have neither validity nor the agreements of the electoral board that called them and opened the electoral procedure nor the procedure itself. My question is very simple, Mrs Beltrán de Heredia: what is the criterion that the department is going to have from now on to comply with that sentence? Knowing that the judgment has not been appealed by you assume the content of it and the firmness of that judgment, what criterion are you going to follow: to amend the law, to promote from the government the amendment of the rules governing electoral procedures so that the procedure you convened and promoted is legal? Are you gonna keep it the same? Or, on the contrary, submit to the dictate of what the rules governing these electoral procedures within the Ertzaintza a new procedure and change it so that all the rights of the Ertzaintza agents, their trade union rights, are not violated again? And, of course, how you're going to clear up the responsibilities within the department for that breach, for that nullity of this whole procedure, or if you directly assume all the responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u114	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners. Indeed, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, the judgment of the Bilbao Social Court of 30 September emphasizes that ballot papers for trade union elections must include the names of candidates and candidates, and that the candidatures of each trade union must be published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country. And, in this regard, it concludes that the same sentence as the trade union elections held in October 2014 in the Ertzaintza cannot be an exception. However, the fact is that they were an exception, they were in 2014 and have been since 2002. And on that occasion, in 2002, it was at the Electoral Board composed of the Administration – by the way, by technicians of the Administration and by the majority unions of the Ertzaintza – where it was decided unanimously that the ballot papers should not include the names of the candidates and that the publication in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country should also be omitted; simply, that these candidatures should be published on the advertising boards of each of the units. Well, it is true and there was a solid argument, it was a question of preserving anonymity, it was a question of security in the face of the threat that ETA members essentially had, and it has been doing so since 2002, and also in 2014, with the agreement of the Electoral Board also in 2014. But this ruling has declared null and void both the agreement of the Electoral Board and the elections themselves. The judgment states, as you mentioned, that there is no appeal against it, and therefore the department has neither filed nor is going to file an appeal. They're union elections. I would like to make it clear to you that the department in this case is limited to facilitating logistics and ensuring that there is a normal development of logistics; therefore, the real actors and the real stakeholders are the trade unions. And I must tell you that, in compliance with the ruling, from the department we have already started contacts with the different unions to set a new election date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u116	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, you have not answered me: are you going to call them back under the same conditions or are you going to promote a legal change to adapt them? You've recognized that things were going wrong. At that Electoral Board there are technicians from your department. Have these technicians not warned you that the law must be enforced even in electoral procedures, even in trade union elections within the Ertzaintza? That is, if things were to be done by an agreement within the Electoral Board that violates the law, the law will have to be changed, if that criterion is to be followed. But we cannot go on obviating what existing and applicable legislation obliges us to do. That leads us to make the elections null and void. I don't know, it's just that what you're thinking about is that the procedures are being called in order to get things done wrong, to breach the law, to hold elections null and void and, therefore, trade union representatives are not the legitimate ones. That's what you're taking me to think. And you haven't answered me either: are you going to clean up some kind of responsibility or do you directly assume that those elections organized from your department were wrong and you're not going to hold anyone responsible in it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u118	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u119	Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, you are also obviating the powers of the electoral commission itself in this case. And, indeed, that Electoral Board adopted that decision unanimously in 2002, by unanimity of all trade union centres, even the one that has appealed now, even the one that has appealed. I insist, the role of the department is only to ensure that the elections are conducted in a normal manner. And, indeed, in view of this judgment, which we believe is not admissible because it is expressed by the judgment itself, we are, I told you, starting again contacts to establish a new date for the elections, logically, in compliance with the judgment and the conditions laid down by the judgment. However, I also do not want to make it clear that two unions have filed both appeals; therefore, we will also have to be at the expense of, and waiting for, what the court has to say, the decisions that may be taken in these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u120	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "about the lack of economic control paid to the authorities of the Border." Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u121	Thank you, President. Let us see, in this case too, the unions have long been denouncing a strange way, a strange way of financing certain agents of the Ertzaintza through a system of payment, payment, provision of vehicles, mileage allowance, diets, etc. This is something that we have been hearing in the media for many years, and after three years of government I would like to know what internal control measures you have put in place to avoid something that earlier only the trade unions said and that, apparently, now also the Office of Economic Control through a report has brought to your attention, that in fact the internal control mechanisms of the department are not working well and that things are not being carried out in accordance with the law. The truth is that I would have liked not to have to ask this question in full and that, in an exercise of exemplary transparency, the report should have been forwarded to us and that you would have requested, through Rule 200 of the Rules of Procedure, an appearance in the committee to explain that report, the scandal that it entails in the press speaking with such thick words of scandal and millionaire fraud carried out for years among the Ertzaintza commanders, but not having been so, I would have liked that report to be forwarded to us and to give us an explanation of what changes it has proposed in your department. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u123	Eskerrik asko, walking president, screaming. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, you speak in justification and you have spoken here about cases of double funding. And once again, as you have shown, we enter into that perverse spiral that is repeated over and over again. In this case, a trade union, also again (in this case, SIPE) goes to the courts and without waiting for the decision to deliver a sentence in a press interview. And you immediately come here and talk about double funding cases to some commanders or to some members of the Ertzaintza. Look, Mr. Arbulo, you don't hide yourself in other people's reports. If you know, if you know that there are cases of double funding, report them, because what we are talking about – and I explained it in my appearance on June 17, 2015 – is a settlement of expenses that executes the and the ertzainas and that they are entitled to compensation according to the norm. In the Ertzaintza there are more than 50,000 expenditure settlements per year, which means that we are effectively implementing the compensation decree of 2012, agreed and negotiated with trade unions – with trade unions. It is true, with some imperfections, as the Office of Economic Control points out. It is an administrative audit, and as such we apply it for the improvement of our management. But this, Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, would not have to serve you to accuse anyone of double funding, and less to climb up to that permanent practice of some trade unions. A practice that has no other motivation than to discredit the commanders of the Ertzaintza, regardless or perhaps seeking the discreditation of the entire institution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u124	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mr Ruiz de Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u125	Madam President. Counselor, nothing further from my intention than to discredit neither a single member of the Ertzaintza, nor a base agent, nor any intermediate command, nor any of the superior commands. Nor your union representatives, as you do continuously, and we already see the good relationship you have with them. Double funding is to finance by means of a salary, which is included in the Budgets, and for which it is taxed to the Treasury, and by means of a different gratification, that in any other department of the Basque Government any official of the rest of the Administration who is not a police officer or in any private enterprise is subject to retention, for example. What internal control do you carry of the use of hundreds of vehicles that are made available 24 hours a day, at the disposal of certain agents of the Ertzaintza? The purchase of these vehicles, the maintenance of these vehicles, the tolls on highways, gasoline, that in any company is subject to tax and tax regulation. That's why I'm talking about double funding. In this case, no. What is the control to be used exclusively for official travel? You know it's not like that. Why don't they tax for that cause? Why is there a difference between some agents of the Ertzaintza, between those who have their vehicles and those who do not have those vehicles for their particular use? That, in any administration or in any company is taken into account and notified to the Treasury. I do not imagine the directors of public schools dependent on the Basque Government having a private vehicle with a card, a VIA-T for motorways, paying them a Visa or a credit card for the payment of petrol, or paying them for the maintenance of a vehicle in case they ever have to go to an emergency in their workplace. But, in the body you drive, it looks like that does happen. I would like to know what controls are being carried out, apart from those more than 50,000 liquidations of other different assets that are being made for the use of these hundreds – I repeat – of vehicles available to some agents, some Ertzaintza commanders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u126	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u127	Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, there is no double funding. There is no double funding. I insist, we are talking about expenses that advance the ertzainas, the ertzainas and the ertzainas, whether in command or not, and that we must return them, according to a decree of compensation where the concepts are assessed perfectly. According to a compensation decree adopted in 2012 and agreed or negotiated with trade unions. Following the audit reports of the Office of Economic Control, we have already taken corrective measures in the application of allowances, in the non-payment of mileages. We have also made changes and adjustments to the correct assessment and taxation of those expenses of subsistence allowance, travel expenses, VIA-T expenses, as you have commented here. Please see if we have made any changes: in the latest report of the Office of Economic Control, insufficient justifications for spending, in fact, are much less, much less than those audited in 2012. We continue and will continue to improve so that all the liquidations we process each year are unquestionable, have no doubts. And we will continue to amend as much as necessary the compensation decree in order to bring it into line with the needs of service and the commitment to work that each and every one of the inertzainas has. But it's true, it's much easier to sow doubts, generalize, talk about alleged irregularities, double funding, even if there's no more burning nail than grabbing a lycra shirt, I don't know, the three-kilometre deviation from Google Maps or the lack of a supporting ticket. Management improvements are evident and can be seen on a day-to-day basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u128	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The 18th point in the subject list: "Internation, made by the members of the Ubeka Aranz and EH Collectors to the head of the Medical Department, concerning the injury inflicted by the rear surgery." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u129	I left where I left off. First of all, we would like to express our solidarity to all the people who have been blind to using a toxic drug product during the retina surgery. It is easy to say, easy to say, but it must be hard and hard to stay in darkness from day to day and to change one's life. Nay, when you go with positive experiments to make a surgery, it seems to me that you should see it better by principle, and when the result becomes contrary. I don't want to repeat today and I don't want to put on the table the different details that went out on the media, but I'd like to ask you, Mr. Darpón, if these facts are wrong and you handle other data, in this turn, right data on the table. Mr. Chief of Investigation, our plan of the interpenetration of today's interference has been to be rendered more constructive than in the others, although we always do and trust in our own interference and initiative in the constructive mode. But we do not merely ask for an account, because it seems to us partly because it seems to us that, as far as the event is serious, it must be discussed in this Chamber for a few minutes, and therefore that it was worth while to have an interval of time in our ordinary meetings, because it seems to us to be serious, because it is supposed due to a toxic medicine or product, but we do not know exactly what reasons have been. And on the other hand, to contradict them, that the Department of Health, Osacinance, is following these persons, directing all the measures to which they ought to be taken, and again to adapt them to their new life, to facilitate the means. For to a person who remains blind, very normal, so common, so many things that have been common, that it is necessary to conform to a new life. And it seems to us that there, when we treat of compensations and compensations, it is not only economic compensation, but that we speak of something more: in order to enable the means which may be supported from social services, to adapt to the new life, and so on. We are very conscious that such a misfortune can never be concluded, that there is no way of turning it round, but at least, as far as possible to relieve it. And so what we ask of the Osatric and the Medical Department is that the patients, to be present with these people, have been part of the misfortune's provocative, but it has been so, and it seems to us that at the present moment, being thus involved, it is necessary to take action... Maybe he's taken it, and the media tell us something's on the way. We want to hire that today, member Osarin, that the Department of Health really implies it. You know, we know that before the chemists leave the market, they have to fill several philtros, protocols, so to speak. We know that it is impossible to resist all things, and to prevent everything, but when such cases occur, is there any reflection or examination? I mean, in the process of surgery, before the products that are used in this surgery, I don't know, a study, does Hosaides continue any protocol? We'd like that too if you could explain it to us. I don't know if you've thought about it, if there's any way, what choice we have in our hands. We have received some information from the media that Osax itself will be responsible for the claims, and that it will direct the indemnizations, and afterwards claim the pharmacist himself. But all this, all or little known, has been discovered through means of communication, and after three months. Don't take it as a reproach, Mr. Darpón, but in such cases it wouldn't be amiss for other governments to receive the telephone and direct contact with the members of the Parliament: Look, this is what happened. It's like this. It seems to me that this information would all suit us with a direct relation. Well, I won't delay, and the first round is the right question, Mr. Darpón: What is he doing or what the Medical Department will do, with Osacence, to observe the damages inflicted on people who have been blind because of the resurgent system of public health? You know, it's impossible to completely notice this damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u131	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mrs. Ubera, good morning to all. First of all, I mean again, that the Medical Department and Osarities really feel the evil done to these people. It has been fatal, and the damage done has no remedy, but I assure you that the division, as well as the Osciform, is in fact a matter of respect and care required by the situation. For us, the concern..., and I speak to you on behalf of the government, the department, of Osakidetza, and I also know that of ophthalmologists, what has happened is very sad and we try to be next to people and know exactly what the cause and responsibility is. We have repeated countless times that this is a government for people. Personalak helburu. Eta ha ez da soilik lelo bat. Personak age personen ongisée will say gure eguneroko gardeneren oinarria. I would also like to take the turn to make it clear that the Osakidetza professionals who have been involved in these cases have acted swiftly and diligently, avoiding the consequences of greater scope for the rest of the patients in both Euskadi and the rest of the state and probably the European Union. These professionals have generated health alerts by detecting that the abnormal evolution of some of the patients could be caused not by a drug but by a sanitary material, plerfluoroctane, which is used in retinal replication interventions and which is the only common link we have found in all the patients affected. With regard to the specific actions taken in response to this situation, Osakidetza, as responsible for the health care of all Basques and Basques, has deployed since the suspicion of the toxicity of the material used all actions to prevent more affected patients. It should be stressed that the situation to which reference is made has not been fostered by medical or surgical bad practice, but presumably by a defect or alteration probably in one of the lots of surgical material that has not yet begun its use, since it is commonly used in vitreous and retinal surgery, both in public and private hospitals, and in Osakidetza as well as in other health services. As you have asked me, and in order to be better understood, I will tell you the facts chronologically, chronology that we published last week from the Department of Health by means of a comprehensive information note, and despite the fact that the responsibility for research and withdrawal of the product is not the responsibility of the Department of Health (other institutions have shut up). Last June, the Ophthalmology Service of the Donostia University Hospital observed an abnormal evolution in some surgically operated patients during the first fortnight. After a thorough analysis of the cases and possible causes, it was noted that the common link in all of them could be the use of perfluorooctane of a particular trade mark, in one or more specific batches. This abnormal behavior and the consequences in eight patients involved in the Ophthalmology Service of the University Hospital of Donostia led their professionals to initially transfer suspicion to the medical management and from there alert the Pharmacovigilance Unit of Osakidetza. In parallel, the precautionary decision is made that the supplier of perfluorooctane, i.e. from detection the suspected material ceased to be used. From now on, the use of that product will cease immediately so that there will be no such misfortune again. These professionals are determined to act quickly, to limit this problem. The Osakidetza Pharmacovigilance Unit immediately transferred the suspicions to the Spanish Agency for Medicines and Sanitary Products, AEMPS, in accordance with the procedure established in the surveillance system for health facilities. Subsequently, the Pharmacy Directorate of the Department of Health received the alert of the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Sanitary Products issued for the Spanish State and the rest of the European Union, alert defined as "Cease the use, marketing and withdrawal from the market of the product Ala Octa perfluoroctano, manufactured by Alamedics in Germany". This alert was coded as high risk and was immediately disseminated in the health centres involved in Euskadi, in accordance with the standard procedure for working pharmaceutical alerts of the Government Pharmacy Directorate. I would like to recall once again that, thanks to the diligent work done by the Ophthalmology Service professionals of the University Hospital of Donostia and their medical management, the product is withdrawn from the market. The first alarm to the Spanish Agency of Medicines and Sanitary Products is from the University Hospital of Donostia and part of our Agency of Pharmacovigilance. Today we can confirm that 13 cases of affected patients have been reported in Euskadi, eight intervened at the Donostia University Hospital, one at the Cruces University Hospital and four more at a private health centre in Gipuzkoa. All of them have been surgically involved in the same period of time and with the reported material. As we said last week, Eukadin 13 people are damaged. Nine of them were operated on Osar, and four of them operated in a private center. In every case, the amount of material that was considered the cause of the problem was used. Perfluorooctane is a surgical device that, after performing its function during surgery, is withdrawn. This material has been used in these types of interventions for approximately two decades. In principle, to be on the market, it must comply with all the safety, surveillance and control requirements required for its marketing and subsequent surgical use. This is the main reason why the suspicion is that the material involved may belong to one or more specific batches of the product. After the open investigation, the analysis carried out in all the hospitals and the removal of the sanitary material, we are convinced that today it is very unlikely that new people will appear in Euskadi. However, and to clarify the facts better, Osakidetza has sent samples of the product used, because fortunately we kept, for an analysis to the University Institute of Applied Ophthalmobiology of the University of Valladolid, a center of prestige for this type of matter. It is quite significant that, once the use of the product has been discontinued, no other cases related to patients who have intervened have been recorded. We are aware, once again, that what has happened is a disgrace and a fatality which is causing significant harm to the people concerned, but we are convinced that it is not a consequence of poor health performance by the professionals in Osakidetza or a consequence of a malfunction in the health facilities. I know that the professionals are very much affected and they are also the first to regret the serious damage suffered by the patients. Since the first indications occurred, they have been involved to the fullest extent in informing them and are carrying out very close clinical follow-up, as the circumstances require. From here I would like to acknowledge the work that the professionals have done in the complicated and unfortunate episode and in which, thanks to their actions, I repeat, more cases have been avoided. I will give you some data that clearly illustrate the level of activity of the Ophthalmology Service in this case of the Donostia University Hospital. Because of its assistance volume, it is one of the ten largest centres in ophthalmology in the State as a whole. It conducts more than 90,000 consultations annually, carries out more than 7,500 eye surgeries a year, of which more than 400 are vitreous and retina surgeries, one of the most complex surgeries, such as the one we are dealing with. It concentrates more than 80% of the vitreous-retinian surgery of all Gipuzkoa. It is the reference center for the regional hospitals of the territory. It has 25 ophthalmologists and nursing staff also highly qualified. I believe that the data offered are illustrative of the research carried out, of the quality of the ophthalmology services of the centers of Osakidetza. We will be, as to date, next to the patients, the clinicians doing the follow-up and giving the clinical information, and the legal services...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u132	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Your time is up. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u133	First of all, thank you for your explanations. We don't hesitate at any moment to find out what professional health has done, and we don't want to doubt that clinical practices were wrong, but it's true that you've explained the steps you've made to us in this first round, the products that you've made to us, the products around this medicine, the toxicism, the what's wrong, but you haven't answered us. You told us you were with the patients, but what kind of initiative did you take with the patients? We'd appreciate the initiative the Osacides had taken on this second shift with the health department. We think it's important to know the details in this case. Nevertheless, it seems to us that the gravity of events would be important in this Chamber, if it were possible, to receive an expression which says that we are close to our engagements and patients in this matter. And with this end our group will present a motive, not only to express solidarity, but to be close to the patients, and to express specifically what these measures are to be made and made easier by us. And it seems to us important that there should be an expression made of mutual consent, in such cases, as it seems to us to be more than ever observed by their political representatives, it is no matter what sensibility they have, whether they are near them, or whether we take commitments as far as we can; for this has no longer turned back, to relieve their injury. And in this relief, we cannot confine ourselves to economic compensations, because money here does not repair everything, but, as we have said before, it is important for them to have changed from one day to another in order to adapt them to this new life, to ease even those assistances which they might require. Imagine that you are blind from one day to another, and that in your everyday life the undertakings which are supposed to be very simple are changed, and that psychological attention, as well as the assistance of the assistant society, and from several points of view, appears to us to be important, if they were, in a way, ready to receive it. It seems to us that in this matter we ought to be carried to the bottom of our inquiry, to make it clear what the reasons of this fatal condition have been, so that we can avoid it, even if we know it, it is always difficult to prevent it, but at least to enable us to take our measures. And from us, that's all. Well, maybe a little more: you have mentioned that at a time it is almost impossible that such an event should happen again. At least we'd appreciate that the product of our clinical practices and our hospitals, even that percentage that could be there, which gives them the chance to do it again, so that it doesn't happen again. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u135	Ubera anderea, I share many of the appreciations you have made in the second round. By pointing out, I have not transmitted that it is impossible to happen again. I have transmitted that I believe that what has happened as a result of the product used, from today on, I think we will have no more cases than we have had. Not that in the future..., the sanitary materials are increasingly complex, the drugs also have a very wide distribution and probably..., we have, since the beginning of the legislature, a clinical safety strategy to try to minimize the risks of side effects in health care, because impossible there is nothing. In addition to the measures taken which I explained in the first part of my intervention and which I believe will have served to prevent new cases, as I said to you, Osakidetza, through its legal services, is also giving personalized attention to the people concerned who have been directed and we are studying the best formula for, within the complexity of responsibilities between those who guarantee intervention and those who have responsibility for the product... And it's complex because we're talking about almost a third of the patients haven't been involved in Osakidetza. And they've also lost sight, they're not blind, because here we're talking about losing sight of an eye. Individual procedures for patrimonial liability have been opened. Direct contact is being maintained with those who have been harmed and, of course, the legal representation of those patients who have addressed Osakidetza or have already made a complaint is being taken into account. One member of the community helps and answers all the persons who have appealed to Him, and their legal representatives. And it is directly connected with all those who have had the consequences of this misfortune. I repeat, that the Medical Department and Osacence, besides feeling what has happened, are proceeding with great respect and care, both in the field of assistance and in the legal field. In the Department of Health and in Osakidetza we are very aware of the gravity, and probably the irreversibility of the injuries suffered by the surgically intervened persons with that perfluorooctane and on those dates. I have explained in detail how the events have happened and I have also regretted and regret in my own name and in that of the Department of Health and Osakidetza the fatality suffered by the 13 people affected, so I understand that any position of accompanying them is positive. I have also wanted to recognize the work and professionalism of the professionals of the ophthalmology services of Osakidetza, and in particular those of the Donostia University Hospital, who with their concern and zeal have given the alarm about the alleged cause that is promoting an atypical evolution in the patients. This has allowed certain batches of perfluorooctane to be removed from use today, preventing other patients and patients from being treated, because they are going to come out quite more patient, probably from the rest of the state and also in other countries of the European Union. I have reiterated to you that once the health product causing the injuries has been removed we have not detected any more cases, so, although we are pending the analysis and ultimate responsibility of the investigation and legally it is so – it is up to the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, and that is also going to determine in a very meaningful way how the path of legal responsibilities will go – I understand that we consider it highly unlikely that more people will appear affected. As I have already said, we are going to continue from the legal services in a personalized way to all people. We have opened individual property liability procedures for each of the cases, and we have left them in suspense until we have the counteranalysis, because we understand that this benefits in this case the patients' own procedure. We are available to patients and their legal representatives. The information we have, if directed, will be given to those who have been treated in the public health system and those who have been treated outside. I believe that the attitude and will of Osakidetza and the Department of Health, I think it will be clear, and I understand that has been acted diligently. I conclude my speech by thanking him for the tone of the speech and reiterating to all the people concerned our solidarity and support. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u136	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of Laura Garrido Körr Eupilla Group were made to the head physician of the Medical Department, about the lack of real information on the expense of the budget. "
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs of departments, congressmen. Again, chief physician, one question about health investments. Again a question about health investments, counselor. On 2 October, we asked him about the investment of health executions by looking at the August budget information report, in which a total of EUR 37.5 million was expressed as having been executed only EUR 652,000, i.e. just 2%. But you, in this forum, Mr. Counsellor, said that on 30 September the obligations recorded in investments amounted to EUR 33.7 million, that is to say 1,71 % of these items; however, Mr. Counsellor, I have to tell you that, according to the September 2015 budget status report, the implementation is EUR 1.6 million, that is, one million more than the August report, just 5%. Therefore, Mr Councillor, you are missing the truth; one of two: either you are not sending us to this Parliament certain information or you are lying to us with false information regarding the budget implementation data that have to do with all these items, or you are not telling the truth in this rostrum, Mr Councillor. Are you going to tell us the truth once and for all? What is behind this attitude, counselor? Does it cover the inaction of a government, of its government, of the government of the Basque Nationalist Party, in terms of investments?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u138	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u139	Thank you, Mr. President, again. Partners. Mrs Garrido, I was just here to answer the same question. Today I was very clear to you all the doubts you point to in your question. I again wonder what criteria lead the Government not to provide truthful information on budget implementation. And you stay so wide. Clearly, in view of the proximity of the electoral campaign, you seek notoriety, but do so with discretion. Take the work of analysing the actual situation of the Government's budget implementation and the roles that are sent not by the Department of Health but by the Department of Finance. I'm working on the paperwork. Mrs Garrido, what concerns you is that this Government continues to rely on the confidence of the Basques and Basques in the difficult situation we are going through. A situation completely different from that of the Rajoy Government, which in health cannot be asked neither for investments, nor for immigrants, nor for pharmaceutical co-payment, nor for funding hepatitis C, nor for vaccines in pharmacies, nor for the Ebola strategy, or probably for nothing. Your accusation of not providing truthful information on this or any other matter does not conform to the truth. In my speech I informed this House – I will repeat this, so that I can point it out and consult it – that the obligations accounted for in the field of investments amounted to EUR 33.7 million, i.e. 71% of the total allocated. To this day they already amount to 34,1 million euros. Accounted bonds, Mrs. Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u140	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u141	Well, counselor, no matter how much you scream in this rostrum or raise your tone, you're not going to be right. These are the papers that you referred to the Basque Parliament. These are the papers. And here it clearly puts the investment budget in various hospitals, regions, OSI, which is 37,466,000 euros. Executed, 652,000 euros. This is what is coming here, in the information you have sent to this Parliament. August month. September... No, no, but can you tell me if this information is true or not, counselor? Are you distorting this data or are you deceiving us in this rostrum, not just this Parliament but all the Basque citizens? And here he puts, of the 37,600,000 euros, executed, 1,600,000. It is the numbers that appear in the information that you have sent us to this Parliament. Therefore, you, Mr. Counsellor, are missing the truth in a clamorous way. Or you are deceiving, as I have said, Parliament and the Basque citizens, clearly. Either you're cheating on this rostrum or you're not sending out some accurate information. Of course, from the Group of the European People's Party we urge you to exercise transparency and, of course, take responsibility for the data on budget implementation and take these papers out here, Mr Councilman, and tell me the degree of implementation of these items that I have again put on the table. This shows an attitude, Mr. Counsellor: exercise of escapism. An attitude of hiding the inefficiency of a government to execute its own commitments. What credibility can a government have that lacks the truth in such an obvious way? What's going to happen to these games, counselor? Are those the famous cuts, adjustments, that are announcing to us various advisors from your department, such as Mr. Gatzagaetxebarria or Mr. Erkoreka? What will be the focus of these new budgets? Of course, what is clear is that this Government, paralyzing investment, is automatically discouraging employment, and we see clearly where the priorities of this Government lie. And, of course, what we see is that this government's commitments have nothing to do with the government action that we see day by day in budget implementation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u142	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u143	Mrs Garrido, although I believe that in your group you will surely have someone who can explain the papers to you better than I do, I will try to clarify the doubts again. The implementation of the expenditure budget as at 27 October, the recognized obligations amount to $34.1 million. You can have information showing items with initial credit 0 in which expenses will then be charged, and other items in which the opposite will happen. Because the items – forgive me, which I am speaking in the gallery, Mrs Garrido – corresponding to these investments have a binding character, that is, the budgetary technique allows for spending in some items more than initially budgeted or less, always within the total limit of the budget. You will know – and if not, point out – that structural works are managed from the central organization of Osakidetza – look at the line of the central organization of Osakidetza. And this also extends to payments. The department has accounted for obligations amounting to $34.1 million, of which more than 32 are recognized obligations in favour of the Osakidetza Directorate-General, although they correspond to works of different service organizations. I think we've enjoyed your presence at some of this year's openings, which I don't have the virtue to do without money. And we have opened, you see, an resonance and the area of high biological security at OSI Donostia, the emergencies of OSI Bidasoa, the external consultation building of OSI Goierri-Alto Urola, the Zestoa Health Center, the laboratories of OSI Barrualde-Galdácano. We have works started or pending completion at HUA, Biocruces, Miribilla Health Center, Carmelo, etc. Do you think of those papers that you like to shake that would have been possible without making investments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u144	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Sociialists of Patxi Eleola Azpeitia, a guide to the chief department of the Environmental and Area Policians, about 2013-20 times the bearable transport." Mr. Ella, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u145	Thank you, and good evening to all. Good afternoon, chief. President Patxi López's Department of Transportation worked at 2012 in the preparation of the sustainable Mobility Plan, the pre-responsibility plan, which ended in December 2012. At the time of preparation, the forum and municipal administration had been a part of the sustainable mobility plan, and other motives involved in mobile life, of course, and other citizens. Although the plan was in a highly advanced development phase, it didn't go forward to be approved by you because the fun was in a state of business and the economic report of the Ekonomic Bureau was against him with some remarks about his finance. But it was not insuperable either. Sociists believe that it is necessary from Euskka to share a shared and integrated view of the nuance of the Eucharistic mobiles: the more balanced standard of territory, more co-ordinated, and more tolerable in proportion to the environment and social conditions. In January 2013, during Durango's visit, the President explained his intention of accepting the guidance of the bearable transport for 2013 to 2020 period. The question is when you're expecting it to be accepted into the guide plan of 2013-20M bearable transport.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u146	Thank you, Mr. Ella. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u147	Good morning, everyone. Yes, this government, within the commitment to progress on the way to economy, society and environmental route, presented the 2020 Consistent Transport Director 2020 April 24th, 2015, in front of the local and local authorities. And in order to make all the administration partake of the common policy of this field, a report was formed within the Basque Transport Authority. Due to the changes made in the government and government after the elections of May, we've taken more time to finish the work of that report and get the consent. The director of the planet has five main targets: and the fifth, to promote the permanent and effective system of public transports. It's essential and nice to get as much understanding around these goals as possible, and this fun is doing all he can to get. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mr. Ella, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u149	Good afternoon, again. I asked you a specific question and you didn't answer me. Yesterday, PN and tomato of milk were the leading men, and this day also the apple will be the star, for you have answered my question, "Adón vas, manzas traig." Yeah. You mentioned that you spent the report on April 2015, because it was the city elections and it took more time to make changes. But I'm sorry, the president said in 2013, and if you like, I don't have time, but he spoke literally, and said among other things: We will use 2013 to do the work of the court, establish methodology, diagnose it, and fix the situation. He said so. "And 2014 to plan." I'm sorry, if I'm not mistaken, we're almost 2015. And a plan, you said well, is done with other operators, which is necessary. But Patxi Lózez's department had made them all, and you've left them behind, because the work, as I said before, was about to come to an end. No, you practice adanism, like most people in other places, who are criticised. "But you did not consider the work, the work done with many agents, the customs made with the people, the townships, and the litigations. You pushed them all away. And forgive me, Adanism is the gravity of politics, because, after all, it's the gravity, it's the roll of the people, because it's the people's jobs that have been made by the representatives of the people. And now you're here and we're gonna do everything new, as if the other one wasn't worth anything? It's even disrespectful. And I would ask you not to do that, and-"
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u150	Thank you, Mr. Ella. Your time is up. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u151	Good morning, again. I don't know, Mr. Elola, if it's gravity or anxiety, but it's not the right thing to do with photographic pictures. In the Transport World, as you know, we're all locals, both local and solids, you know, and the State Government too. And it is necessary that all these things should be agreed on, and that they should be introduced into an integrated schedule, and that they should be united, and that they should be agreed. It would be easy for us to take a plan, a plan, a plan, a scheme, and all that we've done before, of course, would be very easy to take it to the State Council and accept it on our own account. That's easy to do. But we think that when we accept a plan, this planning should be effective. And we're gonna have to do this with all of us, with the utmost respect for other people's compunctions. That's why we're working with the rest of us, mostly with the locals, and even with the aldudites, and I hope we'll have this plan as soon as possible and as agreed on. Not only accepted but agreed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-30.u152	Thank you, chief physician. To finish the entire meeting, I'll tell you about an institutional expression. "To release and rebuild Kobane to protect international mobilization. "The bold resistance of men and women, in the frontier of Rojava, drove all the world's men and governments away with success the siege of IIS Islamy in the city of Kobane about a year ago. Their struggles became a kind of resistance to the people, in the presence of the implacable violence and the terrible cruelty of the ISIS. "In answer to that, on November 1, 2014, an international call spread throughout the world to make an international action for Kobane and humanity, to show the world's people an international appeal to their solidarity with Kobane for humanitarian and material support. However, as there is no official support on the part of the logistica to send aid to Koban, he has found an infinite number of difficulties to help him, and the citizens of Koban have continued to suffer, and many families have fled for a place of more security. Hence, it is still more urgent that the production of a humanized correlated correspondent from Turkey to Coban to facilitate the support of the town, because IIS might still easily attack Koban. "Therefore, the AKP government in Ankara must be pressured to take immediate action so that essential medical supplies, food and clothing can reach Kobane. Despite the relentless marches of ISIS forces in recent months, Kobane is still standing, proud and free. Its inhabitants continue to carry out fierce resistance and are determined to defend their autonomous administration, which is one of the three cantons of the Democratic Autonomous Administration of Rojava, of a secular, democratic, non-sectarian character and for gender equality. "The tragic truth is that the death of the Kurdish child, Alan Kurdi, whose body stranded on the shore of Bodrum shocked the world, would not have to have happened if the people of Kobane had received adequate assistance from international agencies for the past year. "For this reason, Parliament adheres to the World Kobane Day which will be held on 1 November. "Parliament calls on Turkey to release two Kurdish politicians who are imprisoned solely for political reasons. The first is the Gultan Kisanak policy, incarcerated after giving a speech on the day of the women's world march in Diyarbakir, which this Parliament also joined. "We also want to denounce the situation in which the political prisoner and former mayor of Diyarbakir, Abdullah Demirbas, is in prison for his political militancy and for the political and linguistic rights of the Kurdish people. In the case of Abdullah, his situation is critical because of the illness he suffers and because he is not being treated in prison. We therefore call on Turkey to release both prisoners immediately. "The legislature recalls to the Government the decisions made in the parliamentary parliamentary Council of the Chamber of Investigations concerning sending assistance to Coban, and demands that these orders of the legislature should be set to work, as other international institutions are doing. "The US Committee of Europe will give a report of this, to the Foreign Government and Security of the European Union, to the Central Committee, to the Security Committee, to the Security and Collaboration of Europe, and to the Turkish Embassy." Just because the list of subjects has been exhausted, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-seven.
