ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. The first point was retired. Second point on the subject list: "The American patriots, the Basque Socialists, and the Basque Popular Groups of Parliament, the bill of law for the Euscal Civil Law. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we'll go straight to the discussion without having to read it. In the next round, besides these three teams, is someone else involved? No. On the side shift, it's going to be Euscala Popular. Antón Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u1	Thank you very much, Madam President. This time in favour of what we have to start explaining, I understand, is that this bill that we put forward three groups of the House actually does not belong to any group of the House, but belongs to and comes from who should come from almost all legislative initiatives, which is from the street and from the sufferers, or beneficiaries in this case, of outside civil law. And that's why I explain myself. A few years ago, Law 3/92 on the Civil Law of the Basque Country was passed; more than 20 years ago. Obviously, many things have happened in those 20 years and there have been failures and things to improve in that law; they have been verified by those affected, who are citizens. The Royal Basque Society of Friends of the Country began work a few years ago. These works were continued by the Basque Academy of Law and the section of the Bizkaia Bar Association. And to quote two people, we will have to quote Adrian Celaya, who is one of the promoters of this project; and, of course, also Andrés Urrutia, who is another of the continuations of this project. As I said, it comes from the appreciation of the professionals, of the citizens concerned, and therefore we can only echo this and present it as a proposal for this Parliament to approve it. I want to explain some of the things that arise, that are novel and that, as in any civil law that affects people, the personal relationships of people, when there are modifications you have to explain them very well so that everyone knows, because sometimes they change things and people think that this is so and it turns out that it is not so, but it is otherwise, and then they have effects that may not be desired by each of the citizens. This new law that we propose is based on the principles that have always inspired outside law. It is based on the principle of freedom, taking into account the case law of the Civil Division of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, which has issued judgments in this area over the years. And it must be based on the premise that this principle of civil freedom is operative, it is not imperative. Nor is it obligatory to exercise freedom; freedom is, is or is not exercised, and everyone can do so. We have always had the problem of the neighbourhood when it comes to applying it; with this formula that they have proposed to us it seems that we will solve it. The common Basque civil neighbourhood is created and, of course, the specific territorial neighbourhoods are maintained, because the extraneous rights in each territory do not disappear. The Civil Code is respected, the opinion of the Council of State No. 1537/92 is respected, and the new civil neighbourhood system is the point of connection that has also been taken into account in other autonomous communities in this area, such as Valencia, Catalonia, Balearic Islands, Andalusia or Aragon. It is clear that the competence of this Basque Parliament is to approve it, and the territorial neighbourhoods are maintained, because the freedom to test or the powerful usufruct is maintained, as it could not otherwise be, in Álava; the trunkiness and the regime of foral communication of goods are maintained in Bizkaia, and the regime of transmission of the barracks in Gipuzkoa as specificities of civil law in the Basque Country. By mating, the most important modifications come in successions. The inheritance can be accessed by tested succession, by intested succession and from now on, in addition to Bizkaia, by succession pact or by testatory power, i.e., the possibility of acquiring the inheritance differs; it is substantially improved how the widowed spouse or partner of fact remains in case there is no will and the legitimate ones are reduced – and that is why it is said that the legitimate ones are given more freedom. The legitimate law in Bizkaia, in the current law, is four fifths; that legitimate law will remain one third. In the rest of the territories (in Álava and Gipuzkoa) it is two thirds, which correspond to the Civil Code; they will also be reduced to one third. And, therefore, all Basques will be able to dispose freely of two thirds, apart from the forced heirs, which are reduced to one third of the inheritance. With all due respect. One exception is truncality and truncal goods in Bizkaia, and the other exception is in Ayala, where there is total freedom to test, and therefore there is no legitimate working in that territory. To the widowed spouse joins the usufruct as legitimary, the right of room in the conjugal housing and, of course, the possibility of making the will by commissioner, which prevents the forced heirs, in this case the children or parents, from having preference over their rights. And in the matrimonial regime we will have three common regimes, making it clear that couples, whether married or in fact, can establish the regime they want through matrimonial capitulations. But, failing that, in Bizkaia, in the land of the infancy, the communication of goods is maintained; in the rest, the regime of profiteers, as established in the Civil Code. And in the case of de facto couples, if they do not foresee anything, the regime of separation of property will remain; and, in any case, each person or couple will always be able to modify it and adapt it to the needs they deem appropriate. As a novelty, the Basque Civil Law Commission is set up as an advisory body of the Basque Parliament and the Basque Government in this area. And, in conclusion, what I think is most beneficial to everyone who wants to exercise it is that all Basques will have a better chance of deciding what they want. Everyone will have more instruments, some that so far did not have them, and today they will be able to exercise them or not; anyone who wants to continue as he is can do so and anyone who wants to change things can do so, deciding on a voluntary basis what he or she thinks is most appropriate. And that is why I am asking for the support of the whole House for this proposal for a law, which, I repeat, we have signed three groups, but basically it is a proposal for a law that comes from the people affected, in this case, by Basque civil law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u2	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mien Gallastegui... He won't say a word. Eubertarians. Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña, your word is yours. MARI-REERBERTY, Mr. IBARERAL: Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Today, the resolution of November 20th, 20, 20, of New Year's Parliament, Euskal Civil Law, is continued, and this is really important. The passionate debates which, for obvious reasons, have aroused the public in our country may have blurred the importance of civil law in the day-to-day life of citizens. Today in this Parliament we are taking a very important step for Basque society, and in turn we will be grateful to all the legal operators in the country, as we are responding to a long-standing demand. It will also clarify the whole legal framework and make it possible for us to integrate European legislation in an appropriate way. I'm not going to repeat what the previous spokesman said. I simply think that I will confine myself to reading one of the points that appear in the Government's view, which I think sums up very well the content of the law. He says, "... the Proposition of Law carries out a weighted and time-bound work of developing the acquis of Basque Civil Law which appeared in Acts 3/1992 of 1 July and 3/1999 of 26 November, in such a way that the legacy of our traditional and customary law remains alive but with the view given to the law applicable today in the Basque, State and European Union fields. Thus, significant and timely developments are also envisaged in this Proposal for a Law, which deserve to be highlighted, for example: its vocation to be in force throughout the Basque Autonomous Community, extending to the whole of it traditional legal institutions of its different Territories but at the same time respecting the legal specialties peculiar to each of the Historical Territories, with a more detailed and updated regulation of the latter; the introduction of the Basque civil neighbourhood, the extension of its rules to couples of fact or the creation of a Basque Civil Law Commission as an advisory body of the Basque Parliament and Government, which can promote research on the subject and, where appropriate, propose regulatory changes". So today, as I've said before, is very important, even though it doesn't show too much in the media. I don't mean it today, but for a year. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. Does someone have to participate in the opposite round? No. Then there's no answer shift. And since the dispute is over, we shall vote whether the legal proposition be considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opposites are 0; white, 0; 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u4	It's unanimous. It is therefore considered as a proposition of law. Now, the vote. Mr. Maneiro must not speak. Basque Socialists, vote description. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u5	Thank you, President. Good morning to everyone. Today we are beginning this process of legislative amendment, of the processing of this bill – by the way, highly demanded by all the legal operators – which affects Basque foreign civil law, private law, ultimately the right of citizens to organize their life, their family and their property, and which for the first time, as the representative of the People's Group has already stated, includes a nuclear concept, a clear and especially useful institution, that of the Basque civil neighbourhood, which will determine the applicable law and intends to give due consideration to the resolution of the conflict of laws. And, ladies and gentlemen, we do so from a very broad consensus, with a lot of work, with dialogue, with debate, listening to all positions without arrogance, without pride and after a paused study in this very House. The Basque Socialists want to highlight this issue, that of the irreplaceable value of the agreement to improve the things that affect us every day, because every day marriages are celebrated, economic-marriage regimes are established, every day wills are granted, there are countless legal businesses, etc. And this with the aim of adapting our most rooted traditions, those that sink into the Middle Ages, updating them. More than thirty years have passed since the Constitution first and the Statute subsequently recognized this Parliament as exclusive competence in the preservation, modification and development of civil law foral or special purposes, but it has been the legislative experience and jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court itself that have ultimately laid the foundations for the recognition of our normative capacities in the field of civil law foral. Moreover, although the law currently in force has achieved an important milestone from the point of view of law, especially since a very important part of the sources of private law in our country come from customary law, from custom, it should be noted that this project aims, above all, to update our institutions, as it said, to the twenty-first century, in order to put them at the service of the citizens of the twenty-first century. This draft legislation also comes from a very important demand, as I said, from the legal operators themselves, who were demanding from the legislator a new law that would adapt to the times and guarantee security in legal traffic. Two legislatures ago this Parliament already worked on this need, and in the past, the Socialist Government tried to bring together the different visions and updating positions of these same legal operators and the academic world. This led my group, in one of the first initiatives in this legislature, to propose to create a working forum that would culminate in this contrasting task and culminate in a consensus proposal, which is what we have just given our affirmative vote to. In that debate, ladies and gentlemen, there was an incomprehensible criticism of the fact that we took the initiative, but today more than ever, and given the legislative pace that this government has shown and, above all, seeing the contempt with which it defends that capacity for the agreement that it claims to defend, it does not seem that ours was a bad idea, that the proposal was already working directly from this Parliament. There is still a small tour for the law to become a reality with the contributions that all groups want to make. But the broad agreement on origin, as well as having previously had those who will have to apply this new regulation, suggests that the final approval will not be too late. So I end up where I started. With this proposal for a law we recover a concept which the Socialists especially value and which is in the spirit of initiatives that we have already presented and which we will present throughout the legislature: equal rights and obligations for all Basque citizens, regardless of their place of residence, their economic capacity or their ideology. In the process of building the Euskadi of the twenty-first century, we need rules that support that equality without renouncing peculiarities and traditions. That's what we're talking about in this text. Today we support that idea from a broad consensus and hope that in the forthcoming debates we will continue to share that common approach and, ultimately, we will develop a law that will satisfy, as far as possible, the shortcomings of Basque private law, guaranteeing certainty, equality and legal certainty to all Basque citizens. That and not another is the goal, ladies and gentlemen. And that is why, of course, our vote will be in favour. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. In this law of the Civil Euscal Law, a text has been brought, as we cannot protect it, but we have given an account of it. I'll explain this position. Our proposal to-day appears to us very little, and we think it will be very short, because it is unambitious. Some say that he'll ease the work of the legal operators, clear up some of the doubts that are in the offices, bringing it back to us that it was urgent. Well, we're not going to stop that, but we think it's preventing us from having a chance. Article 105 of the State allows us to preserve, to change, and to develop civil law. Of these three powers, we have not yet moved from the Conservation. And with this step we will not move from preservation, a relics, an archaism, we will preserve. We'll protect some institutions that's funded. I gave my cheese between Laudi, Amurrium and Urduña. They're neighbors, it's about 20 miles from one to another, but each has a different regime, a special civil regime. This legal proposition hardly shows itself at all. The preservation of this reality integrates with us as a country, or splits us up more? That's the point. We are voting in favour of dealing with this bill, but we have more doubts than certainties. Do we have a real will to develop Basque foreign law until a true Basque civil law is achieved? Do we want to make historical something up-to-date? Do we want to make fragmentary something unified? Or, on the contrary, do we want to preserve an archaism, a relic, a vestige of past normative capacity, always dwindling, always in decline? Do we want to make a country also from private law? Do we want to empower ourselves as citizens that we seek in civil law the resolution of current conflicts between current people? Do we really want a Basque civil code or is this a project too ambitious? Is it too much to ask? We don't think so. We believe that it is not because, in addition to this proposal, we also have on the table another proposal which moves us in this direction. Let us make this law compatible with that other more ambitious proposal to actually make a Basque civil code. In other communities they are far more advanced than we are. This is the civil law of Catalonia. [[Shows two thick volumes]] , this is the law we're gonna make here. [[He showed a thin book.]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I guess we're really behind it and it's obvious the difference. EH Collect will allow this discussion, but first I must say that we cannot show ourselves for this text. We'll put in the amendments, so we didn't present this proposition along with the other teams. And perhaps with these amendments we shall not succeed in improving the text, because there is not much to be done about it, but we wish to assure ourselves, that we are making steps from this law to a civil law. Most of the amendments will be declamations (in the explanation of the words) and, above all, they will tend to expand the duty which the Committee of the Civil Law ought to perform. We must establish the completion of this Committee of Civil Law, with what method of work, what period, what content, and depth it ought to work. We must define a whole course, and have the force of law. We want a civil Euscal code, which makes all the people equal, both in the fields and in the cities, and throughout the country. Even in the Navarrians, they are much more advanced in this work than we are. Laws must have a vocation of permanence. Not this one. This law is born with the vocation of being immediately modified and developed; if it is preferred, overflowing in its narrow limits, in its territorial fragmentation, in its reduced content. This law should include and give coherence to existing or soon to exist laws of Basque civil law: the law of de facto couples, the law of associations, the law of cooperatives, the Basque law of shared custody, etc. This law must constitute current civil law institutions for all citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u8	Finish up, Mr. Arzuaga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u9	I'll finish it. This law must put the country on the ground, an ambitious challenge that we do not see reflected in the draft before us today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u10	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Third point in theme list: "The bill of law made by the popular team of the Basque Autonomy vineyard and the quality of wine. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we're going to argue without having to read it. On the side shift, who wants to participate? On the side shift. To begin with, Mrs. López de Ocarariz, represented by the Pontian Party, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u11	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. From the Basque People's Group we present the following proposal for a law, for consideration, concerning the defense of the quality of the vineyard and wine of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. I am sure that we all agree to recognize the specific weight that wine production has within the Basque agri-food sector, and especially within the historical territory of Álava. In the Basque Country we have the designations of origin Chacolí de Gipuzkoa, the designation of origin Chacolí de Bizkaia and the designation of origin Chacolí de Álava, and the protected designation of origin Rioja in Rioja Alavesa. These designations of origin, each of them with its specific characteristics, agree on a fundamental aspect: to guide their productions with quality criteria (improve the quality is the effort that the producers and the administrations set themselves every day, hence the good results that our wines have both at national and international level), in addition to forging around the figure of the vineyard and wine the wine culture. The preservation of the quality of the wine and the vineyard through its designations of origin, derived from the close link of the quality of our vineyards and wines with this figure, requires that, in the area of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, the vineyard which is then planted has as its exclusive destination the production of wines based on these quality systems. There are several occasions when we in this House have highlighted and underlined the concern that the reform of the common organisation of the market in wine and wine in 2008 aroused, as it allowed the planting rights to expire – this date is 31 December 2015. Decision which was attempted to change, but which was not possible, since a majority of Member States were not interested in this position. The European Commission now, on the eve of this liberalisation, presents a regulation in which it interprets when yes or no a designation of origin is at significant risk of depreciation. This means that it assumes that there can be depreciation, something we used to think about years ago when this decision was adopted in the European Commission. The regulation provides for new planting or replanting authorisations. If a designation of origin may be at risk, limitations on new plantings may be established, and there may be no risk if such plantings are intended for table wine vineyard. This would pose a serious risk to our designations of origin, a depreciation of the quality and prestige achieved with great effort by the wine sector and the administrations. The Statute of Autonomy for the Basque Country, approved by Law 3/1979 of 18 December, in Article 10(9) confers on the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country exclusive competence in the field of agriculture, in accordance with the general management of the economy. In paragraph 27 of the same article it is specified that the Basque Autonomous Community has exclusive competence in designations of origin in cooperation with the State. This is why we present this proposal for a law in defense of the quality of the vineyard and wine of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Proposal for a law which, in its Article 1, lays down various measures adapted to the new Community rules, in order to ensure that only vine planting intended for the production of wine which can be marketed through a quality figure may take place in the territory of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And Article 2 addresses measures for the protection of the genetic variety of the vine of our Autonomous Community: to protect and maintain the efforts of the public authorities in relation to the genetic varieties of the vine, as well as to encourage the actions carried out by the producers, by the winegrowers, to maintain the old vineyard, as another expression of the tradition and quality of the Viticulture of the Basque Country. The wine sector covers these measures, because it understands that it is necessary to use the tools that are in our hands to protect the quality of our wines and vineyards. They have repeatedly expressed this in recent months. The Government had expressed its view in favour of consideration, although it said that it might need to be included in the Wine Management Act. We do not have any problem in that it is; therefore, it will not be a reason for discrepancy. We do not oppose it; therefore, we initially value it as something possible. It also says that it will have to be at least communicated to the parliaments or taken into account their opinion, in which we have no problem. And we also find it interesting that all those who participate in the debate on this bill, if its consideration is approved today, can ask for those appearances that we believe are necessary. I therefore invite you to vote in favour of this adoption, to initiate a debate and adopt measures which seek to protect the quality of our wines and vineyards. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Next, representative of the EH Collect Group. Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u13	Good morning, everyone. Europe is abolishing all the tools which regulate our neoliberal production and the regulating markets. and now it is the turn of the wine, and the right of planting which is to be regulated by wine is to disappear. It is, therefore, the basis of the discussion of today, on one hand, of liberalization or supplication. In the way of Europe and a fair world, as the foundation of the property of nourishment is, we are obliged to regulate public institutions and markets. But our Europe is moving in the opposite direction. And Europe does not place citizens in the centre, Europe protects markets. Europe makes deals like the TTIPa. Europe likes liberalization and deregulation, and even popular groups. While the popular group supports the liberalization of Madrid and Bruselan, here it favors the plea. And seeing the popular team presenting itself to neoliberalism, I don't know whether to laugh or cry. In any case, EH Collect, on the way to the nutrient, will continue to work for the begging of production. And that's why he's gonna protect this legal proposition from taking it to the tramit. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u14	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Next, the Eucus patriots represent the group. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u15	Good morning, everyone. We will vote in favour of the bill because we do find it very interesting to make the legal decision to protect our vineyard and our wine around quality brands. However, regardless of whether this proposal for a law may seem to be an electoral action of a specific nature, we cannot forget that it comes from the modification, which has already been explained, in the agricultural policy of the European Union, which is causing the common market organisations and certain elements restricting production to be able to provide markets in a sustainable way. In a liberalizing process that is frankly accelerated and that we do not know where it is going to take us, and in which ministers of the People's Party have participated very actively, we have come to cover in some way a jet that escaped us. With regard to the text itself, as far as the substance is concerned (although it is short in form, the substance is large, the substance is important), and in this we agree with the Government's view, it does not seem opportune that we have an independent article for that substance, when there is a law, Law 5/2004, on Wine Management of the Basque Country. There should be a technical or legal search for a way to allow this to be added to a law, more than anything to have a single omni-understood law on winemaking and the legal management of winemaking in the Basque Autonomous Community and not a dispersion of a law and an article. It is also true that because of the difference in dealing with a law from the Basque Government, which carries with it an enormous complexity – that if you couId, that if you report, a lot of sectoral reports, etc. – a proposal for a law in Parliament goes fast and, without further ado, it seems that a lot of information and debates that we believe are essential are lost along the way. In this sense, we believe that in the paper that is believed, as the spokesman of the People's Party has also said, we must call the deputies, who are ultimately the managers of this law, the ones who will have to manage this law. Sectoral associations must be called upon to discuss together how it is, how we see it, whether we are on the right track or not. It is therefore a law that requires a prior debate, even if it has only one or two articles. I insist, the bottom is very powerful. Also, and above all, probably because of the electoral speed with which it has been presented and because of a certain homogeneity of this law with those presented in other autonomous communities, perhaps a certain particular division of competence that we have in this country has been omitted. In that regard, we have doubts whether the Government should grant certain subsidies to the vineyard, which appears in this proposal for a law, or whether it is the competence of the Members of Parliament, which we believe is so. In any case, there are technical details to be discussed in the presentation. And, therefore, from our point of view, and bearing in mind that wine production in Euskadi must be restricted to quality designations or wine and not open it to other things, which is the debate, we also do not believe that it should strictly focus or remain on the designations of origin. We simply open the debate to quality designations that can be of different order. In that regard, I repeat, our group is going to vote in favour of this. And, at the same time, we announce that we also expect a consensus from the groups so that we can discuss in depth this proposal for a law in the paper. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u16	Thank you, Mr. Tellegio. Does someone have to participate in the opposite round? Aurka? No. Now that the dispute is over, the vote is made whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: those at the meeting: 71; votes given, 72; supporters 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u17	It was unanimously accepted. Next, the vote time. Mr. Maneiro must not speak. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours. Maneiro, aren't you going to take the floor? No, no, Fresno, zurea da hitza, won't take the floor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u18	Good morning, everyone. We voted in favour of the regulation of vineyard plantations, but to make a much better law than that proposed by the PP. We intend to do what the absolute majority of the PP has prevented doing in La Rioja, whose copy brings us here today. We vote to do so because we have to agree with our designations of origin and our three outlaws. We share the need for a ban on plantings or replantings to produce table wines in Euskadi. We share the great concern of the sector and its efforts to avoid massive and speculative plantations that put at risk the prestige and the good doing observed historically. But what we seem to share here we do not share in other forums, because it has been for the tax of the popular so Brussels has stopped protecting our Rioja. The liberalisation of the vineyard we are trying to correct with this law has been a proposal by the European right, under a conservative philosophy promoted by the European People's Group. That is why, because the European PP has left our quality wine unprotected, the Socialists have proposed to reform in the Courts the Denominations of Origin Act. We seek a higher protection than the law provides us, as a result of the processing that we now begin. In correspondence, it seems logical that, in accordance with the spirit of the group today proposing and with the concern it says to manifest, the people for once can attend to what is being said to them from the opposition in Madrid and accept our proposal. Here you will measure the sincerity of the Basque PP with its initiative. Therefore, we cannot turn to the processing of a law that drives the PP to correct the clumsiness of the PP (the clumsiness that we socialists said, of which we were already alerting, that we were denouncing), because of the risk of the disappearance of planting rights and the need to protect the designation of origin from the liberalisation favored by the Rajoy government in Brussels. It would be good for the PP to add a correction to the latter which is accumulating for the errors of its mandate. The Socialists will support here and in Madrid the measures of protection of our products, the genetic variety of the vine in our region of Rioja Alavesa and in our Autonomous Community. And we are going to encourage research and establish lines of aid for the preservation of the old vineyard in our Community, and especially in our region of Rioja Alavesa. With this favourable vote we continue our support for the wine sector, for our commitment to a strategy of quality of the differentiated wines that exist, different from the others for their high quality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Forth point on the theme list: "Pune the other bill made by the legislatures, as well as that of Osacinizing them into good PhDs. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Ubera, the representative of the EHG, has the word to introduce and defend her.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u20	The chief of the table, the members of the legislature, the chief officers of the department, all good days. First of all, our support and solidarity with everyone who works in favor of a daily health service which is on strike today. We want a public health system to be a refreciative in our psychology. We want a reference-pointed Osarship. We want a public system at diagnosis, both in treatment and enquiry, because it seems to us that these three spheres are connected and linked together. And for this, no doubt, we must test all the resources we have. And, no doubt, if we want to be refreciative in the ethology, if we want to be radical, we need the Oncological. We have intermediates. So it's a lie that we don't have any resources. We have public money and infrastructure: By the hospital of Donostia, we have a new new building, which hasn't been properly exploited and exploited. Remember that the Oncological is originally a public by nature, by vocation, by purpose, created by public institutions as a monographic hospital for the attention of cancer; that public money is used for its activity and maintenance, between 80% and 85. It's easy to say that, but in a year, 23 million euros, and in five, 115 million euros. Imagine if we invested that money in Onkology in a public hospital for members of the Osalist. Can you imagine what he would suppose? But we're investing in the ideal. He's a public, but not a member of the family, so let him be clear too. Just think about it. One day, if the Onkological Foundation decides that it doesn't interest him in any compacts or ends with the Medical Department, it would be a year's work to be thrown into the garbage. Is that strategic play? Is that what this government thinks is a strategic play? Unfortunately, at this moment the danger has increased to the privatization of the Onkological, and to cease to be a monographic centre, and the danger is becoming reality. And that's not only EH Collectel says that, but here on the committee, we're also talking about our employees. And besides, it's happening very fast, with joy and the occupation of space. Back door. We were saying that even if this government refuses to integrate the Onkological into the Osciform, in the future, a future government would integrate it. That's how we think it'll come one day. But at the moment our concern has increased, and we are not so sure that it will be so, because the occupations have been introduced into the Onkological, and consequently because the privatization is accelerated, because time is against us. The doors were opened to get space, and when we find out it will be too late, and then the Medical Department will tell us that nothing can be done. So what? And will the people remain apart, leaving public money in private hands to some of them to guarantee their business? We're not against the occupation, but we're against the occupation of evacuating space and making business with public money. We're against this kind of occupation. And that's what they're working on at the moment, by the foundation of the institute and its managers, by a brand of Logik's brand. And the contract already established is no longer useful to the Oncological to guarantee the future. It doesn't guarantee the stability of the Onkological and the future as such is claimed from the Medical Department. So it's up to you, EAJ, who's in charge of this government. Mr. Darpón, it's up to you. And you have two choices. One, as has been said before, renounceing what was accepted in Parliament, and thus condemning the Oncological to death, or putting in force what was accepted in this parliament, so that it should be properly referred to our best member of the Osaology, to the point. And we think that's possible. And it would be essential to be a monographic centre such as the Oncological centre in the Osacries; it would enrich it, and become a terrible net: Coordinated with protocols... A number of things could be done, indeed, and would be at our disposal as many and as few means. And so we can guarantee the people, all of them, the economic level of each, even to the disease of cancer, a gnostic of quality, attention, etc., and so on. And what we've brought here today is a few proposals, practical proposals to make steps, and to speed up and direct the functional integration that you make together, because it's easy to say you're on behalf of the functional integration, but here it has been shown that the steps of private corporations have left and that everything's somehow stopped. And to-day, among other things, what we ask is that you who are supposed to agree to take these measures into practice, to accept them, to encourage and encourage them, and finally to put the means in order to do so. Finally, what I'm doing is to read, see what the steps we're finally putting on the table are, to leave them to our professionals in order to get this reference, as we said, in order to render them in reference to our own politics. And I'll read it out of the rhyme. We're calling it "You know, "You know, you know, like, "You know, you know, you know, you know, like, "You know, you know, you know, you know, like, "You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, "You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, "You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, like, like, like, like, like, "You know, "You know, you know, you know, you This is what we seem to be done, which will be directed; either now, or later, another government, if you do not do it. That's what you're gonna do, and maybe you're forced to do it. But watch out, time is against us. "... as long as the negotiation that Parliament approved is carried out, speed up functional integration through the creation of joint working teams from both hospitals, both in those areas that have already reached common protocols and in those areas where there are still no joint working protocols between the two centers, and to this end open the possibility of using the spaces and services of the Onkologikoa Institute to the doctors of the Donostia Hospital, thus prioritizing and improving this space and the public uses of the Onkologikoa Institute and reinforcing its social benefit". It seems to me that this is reasonable and very logical. Bigarren points out: "In order to facilitate a non-traumatic and agile integration, in addition to increasing the common work spaces that allow the reconciliation of the working cultures of both Osakidetza and the Onkologikoa Institute, that Osakidetza defines and implements a strategic plan, within three months, under the direction of the heads of medical services in both areas". So we're looking for a deal, we're looking for the complicity of the professionals there, and we're not here trying to establish a traumatic decision. Eta hirugarrena, integrazioa Azkartzeko eta laguntzeko: "Remove the annual funding limit to the agreement signed between the Kutxa Foundation and the Department of Health, so that the public service provided is financed". Because we understand that the Oncological is public, that it belongs to everyone, who has been created by public institutions and built with the money of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u22	Ma'am, members of the legislature, good morning to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are not going to propose the integration of the cancer hospital into public health; that has already been discussed and voted for up to two times in this House (of course it is approved). What we are discussing today is the path that both members of this fusion process must take, such as, on the one hand, the Department of Health, and, on the other hand, the Oncological, to achieve this common future of the oncological services of the Donostia University Hospital and the Onkologikoa Institute. This requires several actions from the Department of Health. The first of these, break the ceiling of 23.1 million euros that the department pays to Oncology, regardless of the services it provides. Of course, if he did not lend, we would say that he was financing an activity not carried out, which would not be correct; but it is that it happens backwards, the Oncological performs much more work than it is financed, with which the more the Oncological works for public health, the more it loses. In fact, in Sanidad we were explained, both the director manager of the Oncology and the head of the Kutxa Foundation, which already in 2014 had generated a loss of one million euros. Do you think that's reasonable, that the Department of Health is funding itself from the Oncology? The Department of Health is receiving unjust funding, thus impoverishing the Oncology, and that is a situation that this Parliament must not, of course, admit. Because the Oncologist can't say no to a patient who gets to the Oncologist when he's covered the roof of his funding. The Oncological receives all the patients sent to him by the Department of Health, and the more he works, as I say, the more he loses. That's the point. On the other hand, we believe that, in addition to breaking the ceiling of the 23 million and financing all the activity that it sends to Oncological, all the services that are provided by Oncological for the Department of Health (all must pay for them), we believe that it must increase and accelerate the projects of functional integration of both oncological teams in order to achieve in a non-traumatic way, in an agile way, that the cultures of both hospitals are uniting in order to achieve the definitive fusion. We also believe that it should encourage the Donostia Hospital to occupy free spaces in the Oncology in favor of the oncology service and other complementary services to improve the comprehensive treatment that cancer patients need. This would take advantage of the free spaces of the Oncological, improving the efficiency of the Oncological. And, on the other hand, oncology would free up spaces available for other services that would also improve the supply and efficiency of services offered by the Donostia Hospital. For example, the use of the new Oncological Day Hospital, which has been carried out at the Oncological Institute, would allow the Donostia Hospital to free up spaces in this Oncological Day Hospital to dedicate them to generic day hospital. That is, there are possibilities that would improve the efficiency of both hospitals. Of course, it would be immediately noted on the waiting lists. These decisions would generate in the Oncology the possibility of fully self-financing, without the need to seek contracts with private companies distorting the function and mission of this institute, which was never the object of the social work. Look at you, the health professionals' representatives came to the Health Commission and told us that Onkologikoa was born to care for people suffering from cancer and to investigate, not to make liposuctions, nor to treat erectile dysfunction, however important they are both pathologies and with all respect for those suffering them and the doctors who offer themselves to treat them. Because the question is not asked to the Department of Health, but in this case to the Kutxa Social Work, of which we would also have something to say: what does it have to do with the social work making liposuctions in the Oncological?, for this we have a social work? In addition, and this goes as an obligation to the Department of Health, it is the responsibility of the public authorities in Euskadi to provide organized and targeted health services to the population. It is no longer a need for a social work to offer health services, since the public authorities assume this obligation. Finally, I want to say that society has evolved a lot since 1952 when the Oncology began its journey through social work and the support of public administrations, as well as the Municipal and Provincial savings banks. Today, the priority social needs are very different from those of health care, since health care is assumed by the public authorities. Therefore, to these priority social needs today in society could the Kutxa Foundation, if it abandoned the obligation to sustain the Oncology, direct all its activity and funding to other social activities, such as those aimed at the elderly to improve their living conditions in those needs not covered by the public authorities, or those aimed at meeting the needs of energy poverty, or to make postgraduate scholarships, also so necessary, or to temporary housing of social inclusion. In short, neither the Oncologist is giving the service he can give, nor the Department of Health is doing the duties in this matter, nor the Kutxa Foundation is responding to the responsibility it has today with Gipuzcoan society. That is why we have signed an agreement with the EH Bildu Group, which we believe could be perfectly accepted by the majority in this Parliament. And I'm all of you on my way to support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments and congressmen. I don't know if this is what Mrs. Roncal was asking for on the other side of this debate, but it looks like she's finally behind this debate, the request of the EH Collectorian and the Socilist Party, and it's been quite clear that she's in her correction that she's going through that line of 'Felice' and finally she wants to integrate the Oncological into the Osar. For us, the popular Party, the Oncological in the instigation of cancer, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment, is a reference. And it is permitted to give value to the gipus and to the euscal society, and we ought also to consider its regeneration in our society. He said that Oncology plays a key role in the field of cancer prevention, diagnosis, research and treatment. It is a monographic center and is a clear reference in cancer care, with leading technology and a human team made up of excellent professionals. I believe that it is fair to put once again in this House today the service it provides to the Gipuzcoan population and to the Basque population as a whole the Oncology, and also to put on the table the recognition it has. The Oncological is owned by Kutxa, who assumed it as a social work in 1952, became a foundation (Onkologikoa Foundation) in 2010, a non-profit foundation whose activity is limited to tasks of public interest. It therefore fulfils a public function, even if its ownership is not public. For more than 20 years, a collaboration agreement has been signed with the Department of Health and thus a role of Oncology in the Basque health network has been defined. The last concert was signed on December 19, 2013, which has also been renewed for this year. Under this concert, 85% of Osakidetza's funding is guaranteed. We are talking about an amount, as has been said here, of EUR 23.1 million per year. By virtue of the concert, Onkologikoa takes care of patients who derive from Osakidetza, and from other places in Euskadi as well; at the same time, it must be said that it attends to patients coming from private and private insurance. Therefore, depending on the concert, Oncology is another resource within public oncology and plays a complementary role within, we must say, a single model of care for oncology. In the People's Party we consider that both Oncological and University Hospital Donostia are absolutely complementary institutions and that, therefore, the way is collaboration, coordination between the two centers, which must give response, a single response, to the sick, homogeneous and absolutely planned. Therefore, the planning of the oncology activity should be carried out, as I say, in a joint and coordinated manner between the two centres. I believe that the functional integration that has been mentioned in these interventions, in order to take advantage of the synergies between the centres, is taking place. That is why we, too, have tabled an amendment calling for an analysis from the Government, to make a concrete analysis of how this functional integration plan is being implemented. With regard to what you have referred to in this speech, I said that behind is the pretension that you have raised in previous debates, which is the integration into the public network of Osakidetza, because the other integration is taking place – as we have been explained here in numerous appearances by different participants – that is, in phases and in a process, with a pre-defined calendar that culminates in 2017. Thus, in 2012 a working group was established with professionals from both centres and the Department of Health. And the purpose of setting up this working group was to reflect on oncological care and identify possible areas for improvement, and it was concluded that the best option was functional integration, and these conclusions have been translated into a document. Because functional integration, as I said earlier, gives more homogeneous attention to cancer patients, and also makes a more optimal and efficient use of resources, avoiding the duplications that may exist. We speak of the fact that it is already a fact the oncological integration in the services of radiotherapy and radiophysics, that there is a unique management of the waiting lists, that also this integration covers the distribution of patients between different centers according to the pathologies and the greater added value that each one of the centers can bring to attend to these different specific pathologies, the integration of the information systems, a unique record of all the patients who need radiotherapy. The renewal of the teams is also an important issue, and I believe that this is an issue that will obviously have to be addressed, because it is a strategic priority, and so the commitment by those responsible, the holders who appeared in the committee, was acquired. We have also had the presence of the advisor to explain the level of compliance with the agreement signed with the Onkologikoa Institute, and we reiterate today in this debate that functional integration for us is a basic issue for the future of Onkologikoa, that is, the collaboration between the two currently existing centers, the Donostia University Hospital with its oncology service and Onkologikoa. I believe that this is the path that has been taken and I believe that it is the optimal and obviously working path that guarantees the future of cancer care in Gipuzkoa, and also oncological care – given that it is a reference to the care in Onkologikoa and the care that is given in an integral way – to the rest of the cancer patients in the Basque Country. We believe that it is important for the Basque Government to continue to guarantee the funding commitments it has made, in order to ensure that funding is sufficient and stable, and in this regard to ensure stability in the future of comprehensive cancer care in Gipuzkoa. It was also appropriate, at this point in time when such functional integration is taking place in phases according to a timetable, according to a plan approved after the conclusions of that working group to which it referred, that an analysis be made of that process of functional integration of oncology services in the two centres, with the evaluation of the aspects implemented and also with a timetable of future actions. We believe that it is also important for that to be known, and that is why we have called for such an assessment and timetable of possible future actions. There is a compromise amendment that has been referred to here. I believe that, in the end, behind this compromise amendment lies the same pretence of the groups supporting integration into the Osakidetza public network, because we are talking about speeding up functional integration through the creation of joint work teams from both hospitals; that is, before the negotiation of the pretension to which I referred to integration into the Osakidetza public network is carried out. I think it's a process that's going on. I do think it is appropriate for us to have an assessment of it and of future actions, and in this respect we have included it in our amendment. But, in the end, it is more the same, to repeat a debate that we had in this House two months ago for the second time. We will therefore defend the amendment that I have just pointed out, with the two points that are raised by the People's Party. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u25	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u26	Thank you, President. Indeed, there is still a year and a half of the legislature. Already during these two and a half years of parliamentary life, certain debates are constantly being repeated. We have already discussed this issue on several occasions. Therefore, there is nothing new to say either. In fact, a motion on this issue had already been adopted at the time, requesting the Government to initiate talks to integrate Onkologikoa into the Osakidetza public network, and that Government had consistently failed to fulfil that parliamentary mandate. We have tabled an amendment of the whole which goes back in that direction, and that is what we continue to defend. And the arguments are the ones that we have always defended, that we are not going to repeat today, but that some of the speakers who have preceded me have already raised. Therefore, our intention is to vote on our amendment in its entirety. I have just learned that there is a pact or a compromise between the Socialist Group and EH Bildu. I don't know if with that goal of not getting ahead. They'll see what they finally decide. We, in any case, have stayed out of those negotiations and would therefore vote for our amendment as a whole. If it were to go forward, it would only be possible to expect the Government to fulfil parliamentary mandates, in particular the parliamentary mandates on the issue of Oncology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u27	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments. Good morning, congressmen. As has been said, this discussion is not new, but today we will vote for the correction of the world which we have represented. We don't agree with the arguments you've published here today. Less than a few weeks ago, after the representative of the Onkological Patronum and its principal director, its medical director, and the representatives of some staff. After what has been said there, we do a little less with the arguments which you have published here today. So we will protect our correction. In this sense, we want to ask the Medical Department to continue with the commitment to guarantee the stability of the Oncological, as he has hitherto done, that was the fundamental problem. It was the problem at the beginning of this legislation that this funding was not guaranteed. And with that, we want to ask him to continue the progress of the functional integration between the Donostia University and the Onkological Service, because we think that's the way and that's really important. Moreover, those who came to this scene of which I have just mentioned confirmed that this was the way, and that it was the road that led to it. We know that on December 19, 2013, the renewal of the concert between the department and the Onkologikoa Foundation was signed for the next five years. This concert has provided economic stability and has therefore ensured the survival of the centre, which was at stake. But in addition, this fact made it possible to take steps to deepen the functional integration between the University Hospital Donostia and Onkologikoa, which, let us not forget, to this day continues to belong to the Social Work of the Kutxa Foundation. And, as far as we know, no one has expressed the intention of breaking out of the centre; not even the representative of the Socialist Party has expressed any desire for the centre to be put for sale in the governing bodies of Onkologikoa itself. Neither did you, when the Socialist Party had government responsibilities, take any step or take any initiative in that regard, either within Onkologikoa or its representative, or from the Government, to achieve that goal. So, whether you like it or not, the Onkological is founding, the Ark is the sign of the Soracial Foundation, but he's still a legal character of the private foundation. And we believe that we must also respect this, that we must respect the autonomy of other institutions. So again, the Medical Department signed Onkologically with the health agreement last year with the Foundation, the six workers of the center are guaranteed economic stability, and, besides, for the whole Gipu, the foundation of the complete inutilitative care has been established by taking steps for functional integration between the two organizations. We confess that the funcological work has been fought for years against cancer, and we believe, as our teams and I have insisted on, that we must follow it. No one here pretends to lose his monographic character, no one proposes it. Not even the local officials had any notion of it. So our team's plan has always been to strengthen the Onkological and guarantee economic stability. In the initiative introduced by the EH Collectors, and in that agreement which is reflected in the medium today, we believe that the planning is wrong from the beginning. In fact, we're clear that Osalist is already in the scope of good evacuology, and Osa, the University Hospital, is refrection. He's compatible with the ideal, but he's a refreciative. its pros are primary, its infrastructure is primary. So, from the very beginning, we think the planning is wrong. Zuek hemen proposed tozen duzuena... Alderdi Sozialistako ordezkariak esan du berak ez duela proposedzen gaur integrazioa Osakidetzan. Aipatu duzu gaurko eztabaida ez de la horren inguruan izango, bainsa guk ikusten duguna da propostatzen arizaretena. They propose decisions to be taken by the decision-making bodies of the Onkologikoa Board. As your amendment has been put forward, it seems that Onkologikoa is being asked to take a number of decisions, such as giving in to his spaces, and that he will be urged to do so from Parliament. Reafirmo lo de antes: we believe that other institutions are obliged to respect their autonomy and their organs to decide. In fact, if it were to be done, we think it would be best to publish it in its proper organs. You have the means to do so, and we think that it would be better to do what you have agreed to do here in the middle of the day. So we think the Osapartics and the Onkologicals are already planning. You mention the strategic plan, and there's a plan. We think it's a complex work that requires immense work, and this planning exists. Besides, we've both been representatives of the patricians and the general directors and the medical directors confirmed that this plan is taking place, and that it's in the right direction. So we don't understand that every time we say that the integral is here functional, that it's in the stand-by state, there's no progress. We believe it, and it is plain that after what has been said by those who have been there, this plan is in progress. And finally, there's no financial problem. There had been a problem with financial affairs at the end of the previous law; there were real problems, there were real riots, there were dark clouds about the future of the Oncological. On the other hand, the televisor now, according to what those who came to the scene said, is guaranteed to be the future of the Oncological. For the next five years the funding is guaranteed. They gave us the other things we wanted. We were told about the state of funding, about the millions of dollars you mentioned, the ghost of privatization. We were being explained in detail. And we conclude from this, as he said, that from an anecdota the arguments are intended to produce arguments to support an ideological attitude. So we think at least there's no doubt about funding. He was willing to stop being a monographic centre, to beat himself, to win himself, with Euskon's complicity. I say again: The general director gave precise facts about this. The locals that are leased are almost $1,500 euros. If anyone thinks that's working on financial conditions... We think it doesn't make any sense. I was talking about anekdots, Mrs. Roncal. We believe that here, here, the editor of the Serb and of the Albro, was more than able to explain to you about the liposifications, the remark you talk of as a joke, that it's not at all fair. He told you it's a really necessary interference in the Onkological. So we think it's not the right thing to take an argument out of empty anects. That's why, and as I said before, we'll protect our correction. And, as always, if you'd like to hear it, we'd be on our side on this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u29	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u30	What stability? What functional integration? What survival? That he's remunerated? There's nothing guaranteed here, nothing's guaranteed here. It's just what happened here, and we didn't question that today, we've done it twice. The fun, EAJ, turned his back on him for his lack of competence and his lack of ideas. He has not even been able to make steps to accomplish the ends which he proclaims. So much functional integration, it's all stopped. It's all a lie, no steps made. They weren't even allowed in the word. On January 1st, 2014, the functional integration was to begin. He started, started with the radio therapy for 4 pathological things. I don't know if you've signed it in the last month, but the interinctical committee didn't approve of it, and then it had to go to medical psychology. It's all laid out, everything's stopped. And why? Because companies, ocupes, are entering the Onkological and de facto privatization is happening. And he's already lost his monographic character; you'll wear it as you like, but he's lost it. And if you say so much about Osacology as a reference partner, what do we lose? What do we lose originally, by vocation and design, a public institution, the Oncological, with the integration of the Osa, in the use of space, in the means of association? And that's the proposition we brought today. We, seeing that the government has not made any planning, did not make any strides, made specific proposals to speed up functional integration, to work together, to better use our infrastructure. Imagine: If the work were to be established between the teams of the Donostia Hospital and Oncological Hospital, if the spaces of the Oncological Union were used, there would be more space in the Donostia Hospital. Optimization, efficiency, logic. But no, here is an evolution. And meanwhile, money and money, public money (yearly 23 million euros), for the private business of some people, we don't know what purpose. And, yes, we were all here at the scene of workers and factorials and representatives at the scene of war and patricians. He was full of contradictions about the representation of his position, of his waistcoat, and of the patrician delegation. I read the transcript again in case I was a lawyer, but I didn't: contradiction. And, on the other hand, the report of the conferences in the patronium is clearly spoken and you can see where we're going. Then we make makeup, we lie, but the reality of the day is crude. And it's our only purpose, really, to have a reference educology in the Osata. And we find it a loss to lose a means we have, and what we seek is to have this means also in our hands, to offer, as it were, a quality service to all the means we have of providing for the people. That's our goal because we believe in it. Then this government will have to decide on this privatization strategy that continues to be an accomplice, that monographic character loss, and, moreover, what we have to say here is, that those 23 million, in view of what the direction of the Onkological is at this moment, that we must invest them with members of the Osac. We have to take care of our resources. Or what is the purpose of this government of the Medical Department? And that's all we put on the table. Because we really believe and really want to take practical steps and not stay in theory and philosophy. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u32	Thank you, President. I am going to address the PNV representative in the first place, because I think he has pointed out quite a few inaccuracies in his arguments. First, the Socialist Party, whenever it has been up to it to pronounce publicly on its opinion on Oncology, has done so in favour of integration into public health. Whenever he has had to speak and vote, he has done so in favour of the integration of the Oncological Institute into public health. And the economic problems of Oncology did not begin in 2011. Decisions were taken in 2011 that resulted in a decrease in funding in 2012. But in 2011 there were wrong decisions on the part of everyone. Look, the current director general of Osakidetza wrote in 2011 to the heads of Oncological Services telling them to treat patients who came from public health as second, to give priority to private patients. That put it in writing; it was not a verbal order, it did in writing. A mistake, of course, because now it defends the public, I have no doubt. But when you count things from 2011, count them all. Then he says we seem to want to invade the spaces of the Oncology. In no way do we propose anything that is not done by agreement between the Department of Health, which is responsible for providing health services to the population, and the Oncological Institute. And you are trivializing the concern brought to the Health Commission by the representatives of medical professionals, oncological health professionals, who pointed out that the Oncological was not made to make liposuctions. And we never see that any liposuction or erectile dysfunction, however problematic they are, are complementary services to oncology, which, however problematic they are for the population, are complementary oncological services. By the way, you will recall that in committee the counselor also stated that he did not like the Oncology to make a private drift towards other services that had nothing to do with oncology. Therefore, do not defend things that are not defendable either by the health representatives most responsible, precisely, for promoting health planning in Gipuzkoa. Therefore, we insist, the current concert is unfair with the Oncological, because it puts a top of funding and does not put a top of work on it. The top is indeed a problem today in Oncology, which has forced you to look for that private funding in areas that have nothing to do with oncology and that are, in our opinion, decisions that go in the opposite direction to functional integration. That is why we insist that the solution must go by financing all the work that is done in Oncological for public health. This would improve day-to-day funding for the maintenance of cancer services, and release resources from social work for other tasks – if they are to continue in Oncology – as necessary as the renovation of equipment. Because Oncological is a new work, with new equipment from five years ago. The counselor will perfectly explain to you the obsolescence that the sanitary equipment has, and that it is up to you to renew. And to see where resources will come from if the social work has to be devoted to maintenance, to that 15% of funding that is enough! By the way, both the manager and the social worker told us that in 2014 it was a million euros of loss for services provided to public health and not paid for. One million euros. You may find it a frustration, but a hospital that has funding problems cannot afford to donate a million euros to public health. Therefore, we insist, it is necessary to change the course that the Oncological is taking, to avoid the drift towards the incorporation of services that do not provide anything to oncology, that do not contribute anything to functional integration. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u34	Yeah. Being a bit rigorous, I believe that the process of integration, as it has been configured, of collaboration between the two currently existing centers (oncology service of the Donostia Hospital and, on the other hand, Onkologikoa) is the result of a working group in which were the professionals of both centers and the Department of Health. I therefore believe that this whole process is not being improvised, but that there is a functional integration plan established, with bases, with specific phases and timetables. That is why we want to know how this process is going, its evaluation and its possible implementation for the future. And that is what we have in our amendment. And, I repeat, you are doing a series of pirouettes today, but in the end, what you claim is the integration of Onkologikoa in Osakidetza. What I wonder, Mrs Roncal, is why this integration was not raised by you when you had government responsibilities a few years ago, which was precisely when Onkologikoa was going through a very delicate situation. It was precisely at that time that you, if you had that claim as a political party that Onkologikoa would join the public network of Osakidetza, would have raised it. It was you who, by a decision of the nature that was – I hope that decisions in the field of health will take place according to the criteria and parameters that must correspond to this type of decisions – in your Government cut off the derivations that were being made to Onkologikoa. I mean, you also wanted to deliberately lower – let's use this word – Onkologikoa's activity. And at that time Onkologikoa came to a very critical situation and you did not pose integration into the public network of Osakidetza. I therefore believe that your speech is not sustained much and is more due to a clear political opportunism in this legislature in which you are in the opposition and want to defend this position, which is unbelievable, because you, when you were able and had government responsibilities, did not defend it, but rather defended the contrary, that each of them should retain their ownership. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u35	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Maneiro mustn't speak. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u36	Thanks again. Mrs. Ubera, where do you get it all done? Where do you get that? Where? From the board? What do you hear? Only what interests you? The local managers are arriving, representative of the patronic, medical director, senior director, saying that the integration functional progress is filling the chronogram... You're not interested in that? What are you interested in just hearing? What you want, then to tie up your argument? Primacy, empresak, "okupak" deitzen tenu... Beti egon will say takerekin elkarlanean, beti egon will say. Adibideak mordoka jarri zizkizun Moreno anderek; adibideak, mordoka. Berak esaten zuen, eta hau ere agerraldietako interbentzioa izan zen: "Oncology is a cross-cutting specialty, needs other services such as gynecology, urology, trauma... Oncology activity has been done for a long time with private companies as well. Between 2010 and 2011, non-oncologic activity increased at rates above 10%". That's what Mrs. Moreno said. In 2013, 8,719 patients from other mutuals were treated in Onkologikoa and only 300 of them were oncological. Therefore, something different from what has always been done is not being done. Bestalde, Roncal anderea, how do you say the teams at Donostia University Hospital are obsolete? How can you claim that the teams are inferior in the university hospital – you said so – to those of Onkologikoa? This government has not been in place for two and a half years. It seems that you are assuming – yes, that's what you said – that Osakidetza, to become a reference, does not have to have worse facilities than Onkologikoa. You seem to be assuming that when you left the government, you left Donostia University Hospital with insufficient equipment. And besides, the subject of the anecdotes, which I repeat. Mr Alberro, the medical director of Onkologikoa, has already told you: a little respect, you cannot talk so lightly about such interventions. You were talking about urology, about erection problems. And what about prostate cancer? Is not the specialty of urology in oncology necessary? He gave him very clear, very concrete examples. Konklusio bezala, interbentzioetan esandakoa hau ere, patronatuko ordezkariak esandakoa: "Economic stability, financial stability, is guaranteed for the coming years. Onkologikoa is more integrated than ever into the Basque public health system." Y lo que dijo tambiens es chestes never complete integration, and we also think that we ought to respect it (which is also related to what Mr. Maneirro has said) when he mentioned the beginning of negotiations. Mr. Carlos Ruiz, the patronic member, said he'd never put an end to his complete integration. So I won't come here like the spokesman of the Ark Foundation, but please note that they are both on both sides and that the autonomy of these institutions is to be respected. Eta, Azkenik, in terms of financing and what he said about the million euros, I also remind him that he was not limited to the million euros; he explained that we are talking about a concept for five years, with guaranteed funding for five years. And precisely he, who is responsible and should be complaining about this poor financial situation, did not, and said that probably the logical thing is to find a solution to this situation. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u37	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Now that the discussion has ended, we'll vote for EH Collect and the Special Socialists of Euskal, the middle-direction that has been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 37; the opponents are 38. white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u38	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Popular team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters 10; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u39	So it's not accepted to the full correction of the Basque Potion Group. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Misto-UPyD team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u40	The correction of UPD integer is therefore accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposition as a team of the Misto-UPyD legislatures about the lowering of the VAT in culture. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The Misto-UPyD team representative, Mr. Maniro, has the intention of presenting and defending the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u41	Thank you, President. Good morning. I stand for an initiative in defence of culture. In our original proposal we proposed to urge the Government of Spain to establish the reduced rate of VAT for goods, services and cultural activities, as well as to equate the VAT of the digital book with the VAT of the paper book. And finally we have reached a compromise with the Socialist Group so that this Parliament can express its rejection of the high tax rates established for cultural goods and services, because it considers that they alienate citizens from culture and have a clearly negative effect on the economy and the labour market. We also propose that this Parliament urge the Government of Spain to establish a VAT rate of up to 10% for cultural goods, services and activities. We propose to urge the Government of Spain to defend in the European Union the legislative changes and the actions necessary to equate the VAT from the digital book to the VAT from the paper book. Finally, we propose to urge the Government of Spain to propose and defend within the institutions of the European Union the establishment of a harmonised VAT for culture with a maximum rate of less than 10%. Therefore, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Reyes for the opportunity to sign this transactional and finally for the signature of this group. On Monday, 9 March, the same day that Forges published a cartoon showing the harmful effect on culture produced by the current cultural VAT, the ABC newspaper announced a 10% drop in cultural VAT by the Government of Spain. However, our joy lasted little, as at a few hours the Ministry of Finance announced that there is nothing to announce about cultural VAT, and Rajoy himself from Guatemala refused to produce a reduction in cultural VAT. This is part of the general thrust of Rajoy's government, whose actions have led to debt being triggered to almost 100% of GDP, the unemployment rate still showing chilling figures and the largest rise in democracy taxes, despite the subsequent tax drop, which did not compensate for the increase in 2012. Cultural VAT in Spain is 21%. It is the third highest VAT in the European Union, only behind Hungary (27%) and Denmark (25%). In France, the cultural VAT is 5.5%, and in Norway, 0%. In a very short period of time, the so-called cultural VAT has increased from 8% to 21%. This has meant a beating for the cultural industry. It is estimated that the increase in VAT has brought with it a decrease in the public attendance at cultural representations of around 30% and 22% less collection. Culture is in Spain, literally and figuratively, a luxury good, and, finally, that's how it goes. UPyD is opposed to the current cultural VAT and therefore calls for its drastic reduction. This is basically the same problem of conception that arises when we talk about R & D & i, when we talk about education or when we talk about social spending. Culture, education, social spending, like R & D+i, cannot be conceived as expenditure, but must be considered and conceived as what they really are, an absolutely essential investment that must be protected by the public authorities. Let us observe what is happening in other countries in our environment. In France, cultural VAT is 5.5%, in Germany 7%, in the Netherlands 6%, in Greece 6.5%, in Finland 10%, in Ireland 9%, in Italy 10%, in Portugal 13% and in Norway 0%. Serve, at least, as reference data. And why these big differences? It is easy to explain: because these countries see culture as a real investment, as something essential, as something to be protected by the public authorities, because they maintain a commitment and a real commitment to education and culture. At all times, but even more so if we take into account the current socio-economic context, we must understand culture as a priority, as one of the main objectives of all public policies. Our music, our cinema, our theatre, our dance are culture, and culture is the basis of our development, the basis of human development. The removal of citizens from culture is the removal of citizens from development. This is not a problem that affects only the consumer of culture. The increase in this tax by 13 percentage points makes artistic productions almost impossible. And this has a great impact on employment: the number of theatre performances has been reduced by 30% in Euskadi, more than 80% of the theatre sector in Euskadi is unemployed. The cultural industry generates a large number of jobs in Spain, more than half a million in 2012, representing a significant percentage of GDP, about 4%. What is already happening in this sector is happening in others: the brain drain, in this case artists, technicians and professionals of culture and the arts. Already in 2012, a consultant published a study in which she stated that the rise in VAT would result in the closure of nearly 900 rooms and the dismissal of thousands of employees. There have been several initiatives in this regard, both in the Congress of Deputies and in this Basque Parliament, which shows that there is intelligent life in the various parliaments. Culture is a good to protect and encourage and the cultural industry is an important sector for our economy. These two aspects make us unbreakable by the need to introduce a reduced cultural VAT. A separate mention deserves the book in digital format, which, unlike the book on paper, with a super-reduced VAT of 4%, is another of those almost luxury products that are consumed in Spain. Of every 100 books published in Spain, 23 are digital and 74 are on paper, i.e. it already accounts for more than 23% of production. The e-book billing reached €80.3 million in 2013, accounting for 3.7% of total billing. However, despite the figures for the use of the digital book, which was defined by the technological observatory of the Ministry of Education, Culture and Sport as the digital version of a paper book, the e-book continues to maintain a general VAT of 21 %. It is another issue that we propose to change with this initiative. In the digital age we maintain a substantial difference between the digital book and the paper book that has no explanation, beyond merely collection, and that undervalues the importance of the book as a pillar of education and culture. Therefore, and in conclusion, by employment, by the maintenance of the cultural industry, by access to education and culture, it is necessary to reduce the cultural VAT and VAT of the digital book in order to guarantee the constitutional right of access to culture and to comply with the obligation to promote it. Hence our original initiative and hence the compromise signed with the Socialist Group. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u42	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, Mrs Breñas, representing the EH Collect Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u43	Thank you. And good morning to all. Since 8% of CAT culture established by the Spanish Government, it's unacceptable. And we find only one explanation of the weakening and drowning expressions which he does not like; for it is evident that public arks have not collected more money because there is less cultural movement. So we don't see any other meaning than the 21st rate, except the censor. The Spanish state is the only one which does not have a restricted VAT of Europe, and thus it is the highest rate of Europe. The data is a shame, and PresidentUPyD has put them in his explanation. I won't repeat them, but, as I say, they are shameful. And similarly in the Spanish State culture has been the sector that's been able to endure the biggest climb of the VAT. Thus culture, even if it be the human right of all our people, has now become a luxury-consumption. And you can't forget that the tax on the ropes is only 10% and that there's nothing but facilities for the capital. We've got it all figured out. It's a political decision to increase the culturalAT. In fact, it is a pure example of the indirect censorship of the Spanish government, in order to weaken a particular sector critical with PP's pretty ones, which intends to drown. And that's what we witnessed in March, like when the PP government forbade Sociedad alcohol concert in Madrid. PP doesn't like what's meant and he just forbids it. In crisis time culture is also required to promote culture, because it is an important author of human culture and cohesion, besides that it is the strategic factor of development. And it's clear what the right man did. "With the rise of VAT in culture, the PP took revenge against a sector that is open to free criticism against power and that is a sign of democratic freedom", hainbat eragilek esandakoaren arabera. So the quintessence problem is the antidemocratic nature of the Spanish government. And, as I said, the VAT Cultural EH Collect puts it there, as we place the law of Lomce of education in that context. And further on, we cannot forget that the injury to the eucaur culture is much more serious, because our culture is diminished. And thus, at the first point of our correction, we reject this excessive rate, which is logical. And at the second point, in obtaining the jurisdiction over the VAT, we speak of independence, and of our ability to decide for ourselves, so that we may also decide our own tax office, progress and redistributor, to distribute the public burden in a different way, because those who have most of it do not contribute to society. This, we believe, is the only solution to deep down and advance in the independence of the question brought by a restrictive policy of Madrid, even in culture. In this subject, then, except with PP, we agree with the nature of the demand of the rest, that the reduction of the VAT Cultural, is not of the form or context, but of the fact of placing the subject in Spain, as we did before, in the manner of UPD and PSE; or, as we did, the jurisdiction alone with the establishment of EAJ in the Economy. The economic agreement is admitted by us as an intermediate tool in the way of self-preservation, but it seems to us that it is not enough for us to do so. In fact, there are still gaps and absences in the day, and the serious state of culture is one of them not to be put into the solution. And so we can't help asking the Spanish State to ask you for the VAT and the special tax power and step in that direction. We cannot stop the Spanish Government in order to establish a restricted VAT in culture; we should have a right to change the VAT from top to bottom. In the state of the prosecutor, as I said before, and in the taxing, we need this right; in this case, to reduce this indirect tax, and to give it special treatment of culture, let us here decide the status of our culture. So we want to go beyond here and everywhere. It is necessary that the efficient process of deciding separately, holding the different rhythms of the country, should be directed to the end of the Basque State, to obtain all rights for all the people. In short, social justice and complete independence are made reality. That's what we've been trying to do with the geltarian team, but he's refused our offer. Its correction is the same text as supported in the plune in 2013. There, we've just inserted the 5% guy requested by PSE, and that's not a problem. But the problem has come, when we have proposed it, until we have fully acquired the independence, to confess the economy as a transition tool, and not as a chief aim. And again, just as EAJ has done in the last 30 years, he has refused to take his independence again in Exodus, because, in our opinion, you are afraid of independence, and has again fallen into his usual contradiction. And thus, as an example, I have brought some expressions of the speech of the Day of the New Testament. He threw it at the New Day's mitin: "The men and women who compose this covenant have a purpose, and a challenge: to be a free people, to create a free people, all of us who live in Basques." That's one of them. Gero Boot Zuen: "We have been working on the foundations for many years. Working on solid foundations for Euskadi. On foundations capable of supporting a large house and a large roof that gives shelter to all. Because all this road leads only to one destination: a prosperous Euskadi who owns her future. To a nation that wants to decide its future without ties." Bigarren said so. Hirugarrenik, Boot Zuen: "We dream of a free Euskadi. We'll have that Euskadi free. We dream of being a star in the sky of Europe. And we'll be a star in Europe. Only those who dream of the impossible can make it possible. That's why it's legitimate to dream in Euskadi. Gora Euskadi askatuta!". Horiek Ortuzarren hitzak. I think "upup Euskadi is loose!" "It's in his mouth in New Year's Day, but I'd say "upa Euskadi" in his diary and in his heart." And if what Orcian says in the mitinians were true, EAJ should have no difficulty in agreeing with our plan. We want to decide everything, and we want to decide everything here, where there's will, because there's a way. And so it is a matter of will. But today's response is clear that EAJ has no will. That's why he's hanging around on an endless precipice, not taking the right way. And just yesterday, inside his book-book, the EAJ Bazaiko, Bilbo, and Gastei candidates filled their mouths with culture. Saying that they ought to do what they have not done in the Biscay and Bilbon, for 36 years (elegical promise that they do not complete, smoke), and an idea which has an enormous lack of credibility from Gaste, from the joke, a cultured idea, lost north, as we believe, in the region of culture, as in other areas. And those who work in culture are not fools, and it is clear to PNV that culture has had the preference and has it in recent years. Finally, to get to the end of it, I would like to say to the Popular, that his correction gives a brief account of the ABC, which is the only aim of a wave in the government, the reality is the reverse. For, thanks to PP's government, poverty has increased; society is more naturally poor, poor people are poor, rich, and public services have been reduced. And it's a long list. To conclude, I think we have a great deal to learn from the French State, where there is a government, where health, education, and culture are three rights and posts protected. And for the time being, that's all. I'll explain the vote: We will defend ours; in the medium signed, we shall abstain; even in PNV's proposition, we shall abstain, and against PP. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u44	Thank you, Mrs Breñas. Mr. Sémper, who represents the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u45	Mila esker, andrea president. Eguerdi on guztioi. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors. In these debates it is normal for each one to try to tie the discourse a little bit to certain intentions. We have heard of revenge, I don't know which sector, we have heard of great national strategies from one another. We have even heard a "Euskadi askatuta now!", a little sad, Mrs. Briñas; I think the "Euskadi askatuta now!" You should have reproduced it with a little more interest. But, if I may briefly review where we were, in 2004 the overall rate of VAT was 16%, as you keep, while the reduced rate was 7% and the super-reduced rate was just as now 4%. In 2010, the government of the Socialist Party decided to raise the general VAT for the first time since 1995 from 16% to 18%, as you recall. The reduced rate also experienced an increase; since 1995 it was 7 % and was increased to 8 %, keeping, as now, the super-reduced rate by 4 %. We do not need to remember what economic situation Spain was in that year. The economic situation which also forced the ruling party then, the Socialist Party government, to make that decision, because the evolution of public revenue, which, as you also recall, was less than modest, made it necessary to adopt certain economic measures that would help lay the foundations for economic recovery. But also, in a flat way, it took income so that officials could continue to be paid, that the State machine could continue to operate, that public services could continue to be provided. This I think is an analysis – you will share with me – objective, lacking political nuances. Through the Royal Decree Law 20/2012, the rates of VAT were increased in line with what was said – this is also an objective fact – with the recommendations of the European Commission, which then maintained – and I suppose it continues to maintain – the need for Spain to raise these rates in order to align our country with the rest of the European partners, where the average rate of VAT is between 15% and 25% (there is a fluctuation, depending on the countries), compared to the average rate of Spain, which was then 12.2 %. It was from 1 September 2012 that the general tax rate on VAT in the cultural sphere experienced the increase which is currently under discussion. Also the reduced VAT went up to 10%, when it was at 8%, including entries to libraries, archives, museums, private art galleries, etc., keeping the super-reduced VAT – and this seems important to us to remember – applicable to books, newspapers and magazines, which remains at 4%. The years continued to pass, economic circumstances also continued to evolve, and on 26 January 2014 two notable changes were made to the VAT Act, specifically with the tax rate affecting imports of art objects, antiques, collectibles, etc. It is true that the rise in cultural VAT has been one of the measures most questioned in this legislature. It has been one of the most rejected measures not only by the sector, not only by the political groups of the opposition to the government in the Congress of Deputies, but we can also agree and we can agree that it is one of the measures, one of the rates of VAT, most rejected by the population as a whole. We want to tell you quite frankly that we do not like the VAT applied on this subject to be 21 % and we have reflected this in the amendment we have tabled. We would like to say frankly that we want to reduce VAT on these matters by less than 10%. And we want to tell you that we are politically defending, where we have the opportunity, and also in this forum, the principle that no cultural activity (either cinema or theatre) should have such a VAT, because not only is the industry affected, but also (a very important industry in this country), but the consumer is affected. We believe that, at times of particular economic difficulty, difficult economic decisions had to be taken by the Government, and we believe that today that the economic situation has objectively improved and is objectively improving, certain measures need to be rectified, particularly with regard to VAT on cultural products. In that connection, we have tabled the amendment. And I also want to say to you, especially to Mr Maneiro, who has referred to it, that the press information is that, press information, very truthful, because fortunately we have a press with a capacity to know many times more than many politicians know, and I trust, we trust, that this announcement reflected in a medium of communication materializes as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u46	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. This cultural VAT was discussed here at the initiative of the Socialist Group more than a year ago; indeed, this House decided to urge the Government of Spain to return it to its original reduced value, i.e. 13 points less, which was just what the People's Party Government came up with. And today Mr Maneiro brings the debate again because I understand that it is still unsolved two years later. So, Mr Semper, whether it's news from the press or not, whether it's gullies or potents, doesn't matter. Are you going to lower the cultural VAT? Yes or no? Because, if not, there's nothing to do. Well, let's see when, because we've had the whole legislature say it; Mr. Rajoy has said it several times and hasn't dropped it. And I think you can't play with these things. Either you go out to the BOE by lowering the VAT or you shut up and hold the chaparron, because everything that is happening, the disaster of the cultural sector by the rise of the VAT, is your responsibility and nothing more. It is true that this debate more than a year ago had I believe that a course more applied to the object that interests us or should interest us, that is that cultural VAT harms the cultural sector, the cultural industry, and, therefore, try to get it approved something that tries to correct this situation. However, today there is a huge dispersion of positions. While all – except the People's Party – agree in theory on the substance, in which, in the end, the lack of agreement is reduced, the way in which some amendments have been drafted, the way in which the problem has been addressed leads to the likelihood that it is not possible today to agree on that core, because it is trying to put the political interest of each party ahead of elections or a position before the citizen in more general problems rather than trying to solve the issue of cultural VAT. And, if necessary, I'll explain that in more detail later. The case is that the cultural sector – and I am not going to have much to do with it, because data has been handled and we all know it – is badly hit by this rise made by Mr Rajoy's government. The chances of survival have been falling because spectators have decreased, both in theatre and in dance, in cinema... It has reduced the small profit margin that allows them to survive, because once 13 points of VAT is raised, if the entries are maintained, it is already earning 13% less. But if, moreover, because we are in a crisis they have to lower the entrances to keep spectators, it is happening, for example, as with cinema: by means of discounts, weekly offers and so on, they have had to actually decrease on average by 9% the value of the entrance, and 13% plus 9%, 22% less, which is leading to the disaster in the sector, because thousands of jobs are being lost and hundreds of businesses are closing down. And that is also happening in Euskadi. And that's not harmless. It affects the quality of life, it affects something that all governments and administrations should defend, which is the value of culture as something that belongs to the formation of the person, which makes us better and facilitates coexistence and social wealth. The Constitution – it is a constitutional mandate – clearly states that "the public authorities will promote and protect" (they will promote, which means to incentivize, in some way, economically, and they will protect, which means a proportion) "access to culture, to which everyone has a right". That is what the Constitution says and the People's Party Government is doing the opposite, because, apart from the reasoning that we are now entering to raise or lower taxes, we are talking about a constitutionally protected citizen right that the People's Government has been attacking since it arrived. The problem is, however, that this cultural VAT also harms people with fewer resources, which also affects the democratization of culture. And that's also fundamental. The one with the least resources is the one who stops going to the theater, or to the cinema, or to the dance. One more factor is introduced in this initiative, which is to equate the VAT from the digital book to the VAT from the paper book. As far as the amendments are concerned, we cannot agree with the amendments by PNV, Bildu and the People's Party, in all three cases for different reasons. In the case of Bildu it is clear that it sets, as I said at the beginning, its objective in a general policy scenario oriented towards independence. And that's what comes first, walking to independence, having full competence in that sense; but, of course, that borders what is right now the solution to the problem that we are dealing with, which is, I believe, what we should focus the debate on. In the case of the PNV, he points out what we approved years ago, which was the initiative of the Socialist Government. The fourth point introduces a factor which he also introduced on that occasion, and is that we here today support the fact that the Autonomous Community has the capacity to regulate VAT. Let us remember that the parliaments have the capacity to collect it, to modulate it, but it is true that it does not have the normative capacity. The point is that it is not just about cultural VAT, it is about VAT as a tax. That has a very big problem; for starters, practical. VAT, whether it works or not, is related to the European Union. The European Union sees Spain as a fiscal area. If a tax of an indirect nature is introduced in an autonomous community on a regulatory basis, it could be the case that we could modify the VAT on imports, I know what, like oil, hydrocarbons, such imports; although they go not only to the Community, but to the rest of Spain, we would collect it. If you lower the VAT rate, all those who come to Spain would come in here. That the European Union – it has shown in other cases – would immediately understand it as an unfair competition, which it would not allow. There is also a conceptual reason. In the European Union, in all its states, efforts are being made to harmonise indirect taxes in order to avoid precisely that unfair competition in a European area where the free movement of goods and people is facilitated, and much more within the same state. This, the VAT regulation in Euskadi, would have just the opposite effect. We have enormous technical complexity in this matter, which, in order to discuss it, would be desirable, if the intention were functional and not merely political, to do so in a specific area, not out of the question, in a very concrete initiative on cultural VAT. To pretend that it is discussed in depth, with all the technical complexity that it has in the context that I am describing the subject of cultural VAT here, is to claim more a political resonance of that message than to achieve a practical, real consequence, which would also help cultural VAT, which is what we are dealing with today. And, if I may, I would like to remind you that the settlement of VAT every year with the State is favourable to us and that there are emerging political groups that are increasingly questioning the Economic Concert. And that in the end, with or without agreement in a joint committee, the amendment of VAT would have to be brought to the Law on Economic Concert and, therefore, to the Spanish Parliament. That is to say, in something that we have that works very well, that we are proud of, that it is a pact, that we would have to enter if this is opened and that, therefore, it could also be opened for other things, seems to us too risky an uncertain result, probably contrary, to spoil something that we do not need to touch. That is why I would ask for more attention for cultural VAT in this case. And the amendment of the People's Party deserves a good time in the reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u48	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña, your word is yours. MARI-REERBERTY, Mr. IBARERAL: Thank you, Mr. President. We agree with the contents of the proposition and the half-correction. But this doesn't lead us anywhere, it doesn't mean anything from our point of view. As I say, in agreement with the content of the proposal and of the amendment, it must be said that we are faced with an initiative that does not defend culture, since the proposer knows that he has no path whatsoever and, moreover, because he rejects the path that guarantees the positive result. We are faced with an initiative that, in addition to being repetitive, is born dead, and the proposer knows that. It is born dead not because of the result it can obtain today, but because the proponent knows that the Government of Spain is not going to pay attention to what is coming out here, since we have the precedent of this Parliament's agreement in 2013, which called for the same thing that is proposed today, plus the addition of the amendment by the Euzko Abertzaleak Group of our group. Today, in addition to reiterating the failed pretension, the only path that would make what is being proposed viable is once again rejected. And the request to agree within the framework of the Law on Economic Concert, as a concerted tax of autonomous regulations, value added tax, is again rejected by the same groups. This rejection is not understandable, and less so in view of what happened with the previous agreement. Since, given the background and the nullity of the case made by the Government of Spain and given the position of the groups in this House, the only thing that guarantees that cultural VAT will be reduced to the parameters that are handled here is that VAT is within our competence. It is clear that, if that were the case, cultural VAT would already be reduced as proposed. Therefore, the rejection has no explanation and makes it clear that the proposal of those who exercise it is nothing but pure postureum, knowing what is going to happen, and that it has no path whatsoever. With regard to the People's Party, the People's Party has said that it will do and it seemed that it was done, but the real question is that it has not been done. That's the reality, there's no other. With regard to what Mr Reyes said, we see no problem with the issue of VAT competition. To harmonize with the European Union is not a problem, as shown by other transfers, and in our view does not pose any problems with the Economic Concert. We therefore believe that there is no basis for opposing this. With regard to the proposal by Euskal Herria Bildu, our position with regard to his proposal is that it does not improve our proposal at all, because, first of all, it is obvious, since when we achieve full sovereignty, the current transfers will not be necessary. Secondly, because this country needs as many skills as possible right now to achieve the best possible state of well-being of Basque citizens. Thirdly, because your proposal takes us out of this day-to-day debate to take us to a debate that is necessary, but which we agree to pursue in the Self-Government Paper. If I'm going to make a couple of considerations to the rally you've held against the PNV. You, in addition to submissively fulfilling all that you demand where you govern, what you do with these kinds of speeches is to deceive and demobilize citizens when you demand the institutions governed by the PNV to do what you do not do, saying that it is not a question of legality, but of political attitude. This, in addition to being false, is profoundly demobilizing, because, by removing those convinced ideologically, how are we going to justify the need for a new status if we already have sufficient skills and possibilities to achieve our objectives? If, in order to avoid the competitive impositions and invasions of the Spanish Government, it is enough with political attitude and not a legal problem, it is enough with what we have. This is what you transmit to those who are not of your ideological cord, and you do so knowingly that it is not real and out of pure partisan interest. But it is also, and I have to tell you, that you are the most submissive of Spanish legality and those who demand that we do what you do not do. And I'm gonna leave it here. I will leave it here because I believe in collaboration rather than confrontation, but I do warn you that it is already worth false accusations to the Nationalist Party. Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u49	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. Passing on the answering shift, Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u50	Thank you, President. It is gratifying that there is a parliamentary majority here today that it is indeed in favour of reducing cultural VAT throughout Spain and even moving towards European harmonisation. Above all, there is an agreement in the first place, in the need to reduce cultural VAT, and that is appreciated, beyond that there are speeches that have finally been found, among mainly nationalists. I do appreciate and appreciate the fact that there is also a parliamentary majority in this House trying to send the Spanish Government that decision to reduce cultural VAT. Of course, I liked Semper's speech more than Mr Damborenea's speech a few months ago. I have seen him more in favour of reducing cultural VAT. Mr Semper has come to say that he does not like the current cultural VAT. And he said that "we are in favour of reducing that cultural VAT", and he even said that "we share the initiative proposed by UPyD". When he said "we," I don't know exactly who he was referring to, whether the whole People's Party, or the Basque PP, or the Gipuzcoan PP. But, in any case, it seems that it is finally recognized that the decision to increase the cultural VAT was not beneficial and that, of course, it is incumbent on the Government today urgently to push this down. However, Mr Semper has given us a historical account and an analysis of the economic situation that we do not share. We think that cultural goods are not like others, they deserve special treatment. Regardless of the economic situation we are in, we think that cultural goods have to be treated differently, because we are talking about culture. And culture is something essential for the whole citizenry. Therefore, that claim to unite the economic situation in which we met a few months ago with that decision to increase cultural VAT to us seems clearly wrong and also shows a mercantilist view of politics. We are talking about cultural goods, and cultural goods are not like others and, of course, cannot be considered in the same way as luxury goods. He has announced that they are going to lower VAT, yes, but I think they are already late. And, in any case, the question is when you are going to lower VAT, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, if you are going to finally vote on this transaction, because it would be an interesting step if the Basque PP also urged the Spanish Government to lower cultural VAT. If you really think so, I think you should do what you should do is vote in favour of the transactional. Cultural VAT, as has been said, harms the sector, harms industry, harms the economy, harms employment, harms the consumer and, more importantly, harms culture, which is a protected good in the Spanish Constitution itself. I therefore ask the groups to try to differentiate the economic situation or taxation that may affect other goods with this issue that we are talking about today, which is essentially the issue of cultural VAT. In no case was the increase in that tax justified. Moreover, it did not bring anything good, because it harmed employment, it harmed the sector and, in addition, it pushed the citizenry away from culture, and, therefore, what is important is to correct that as soon as possible. Mr Arieta, I do see positive elements in the positioning of other groups; I have said this, it is good that there are a majority of groups defending the reduction of cultural VAT. You do not seem to see any positive elements in any of the amendments or in any of the approaches taken by the different groups. And he has accused us of posture, he has told us that this initiative is born dead and that this initiative has no path whatsoever. I believe that what this Parliament says is important, Mr Arieta. It seems to me that this Parliament is important. Why do you say that this is simple posture and that it is not worth anything? When we adopt certain initiatives in this Parliament, urging the Basque Government to take certain actions, are we also doing pure posture or wasting time, even though we are seeing day and day as well that this government does not comply with parliamentary initiatives? Well, I don't think so, I think it's important to take the step that could be taken today. That is why I ask, especially the nationalist groups, to forget their nationalist demands and to put forward the common good and the fundamental issue that is being dealt with today, which is the reduction of cultural VAT. To claim that VAT depends solely on Basque institutions is deeply anachronistic and reactionary. We are talking about going towards a single taxation across Europe. It seems to us, therefore, absolutely out of place that the nationalists again put their nationalist sophasias, their nationalist demands before what culture is, something that should unite us all. That is why I am calling, in 15 seconds, for all of us to be able to ask the Spanish Government to reduce cultural VAT. I think that's what unites us all in today's debate and I think we should be able to live up to the circumstances and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u51	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u52	...to vote all this compromise amendment. Leave your nationalist claims for one day, leave those claims for one day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u53	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs Breñas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u54	With your permission, I'll do it from the back. Just to make two notes. In the first place, I have observed that he does not sometimes listen attentively to the former speech, the representative of PP. I said, "Go up, Euskadi's loose!" "That was not mine, but part of the oracles. If it had been mine, and I'm telling you, it would have gone off with another. And then, on the other hand, in your speech, you have expressed that you are contrasting the modern VAT and that you also make that request. But I've read over your correction, "Anima al Gobierno de España a que continúe bapuestos, y en concreto elA aperlicado a la industrial ulturall," and I think it's not an animal." Then there's a difference in the deep. And the PSE representative. Yes, we've settled the subject here, because theAT for us has a direct connection with its independence, and it seems to us that the solution is there. And that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u55	Thank you, Mrs Breñas. Mr. Sémper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u56	Yeah. With your permission, Madam President, from the seat. Mr Maneiro asked on behalf of whom he spoke when he said that we did not like cultural VAT. Well, I have to say humbly that on behalf of the Basque People's Parliamentary Group, which is one of my responsibilities to be a spokesman. And no, we don't like VAT. But we don't like VAT in general, we don't like taxes in general. I know we disagree a lot here, but we don't like it, what we're going to do to it. But if you want me to venture, Mr Maneiro, because I am telling you that I am speaking on behalf of the Basque People's Parliamentary Group, I will venture: I believe that most of the national PP do not like the VAT of 21% applied to cultural products either. And if you want me to venture a little further, we believe that the government is going to reduce the rate of 21% applied to cultural products already, shortly. And of course we encourage you, Mrs. Breñas. We encourage you to do so as soon as possible; to lower this VAT, to lower this tax and many others. Of course we cheer him up. There is a lack of encouragement, Mrs Breñas, in all aspects of life, also in this one. Let us not worry too much about what terminology we use. And it is true that our political position also evolves with the circumstances. And it is true that the discourse that we could have two years ago or a year and a half ago or three in this matter has evolved, because economic circumstances have also evolved. And it is true, Mr Maneiro, that I share with you that the VAT applied to culture is something else, it has another dimension rather than merely economic. That's true. And it is true that the tax rates that apply, this and any other that applies to cultural elements, must be very exceptional, because culture must be something exceptionally protected by the public authorities. Of course I do. But Spain's circumstances three years ago were exceptionally negative, exceptionally worrying. That's something I wanted to share with you. And nothing else. Although we will now see what the Socialist Party spokesman has to say about our amendment. But I would already like other parliamentary groups, when they have had the opportunity – and I am referring to you – to refer to political measures of the Government when their party was in the Government, to have the capacity and, let me say it, the courage or at least the freedom of criterion in order to be able to draft amendments in this Parliament asking the Government in which their party was in things like this. I therefore look forward to your intervention. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u57	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u58	Madam President. It is the second allusion to the Socialist Party. I mean, I am going to intervene. Anyway, you have, as a People's Party – I already know that Euskadi is different, but you are from the People's Party – a speech (I have just defended that there are no taxes, but, in general, politically)... I am thinking that it is as inconsistent as a palafito that is subject to four stakes: a social crisis, an institutional crisis, an economic crisis and the fourth leg is in the newspapers. And that palaphite is already threatened with death by a tidal wave that comes from social problems, from the feeling of people who have it wrong. And then, that goes wrong with having to hear that the Basque People's Group, probably the majority of the People's Party, thinks that cultural VAT would have to be the one before or lower than the one you have imposed yourself. Well, they don't suffer that much. Put it down and that's it. That speech doesn't make much sense, because one thing is words and another thing is what is done. And we're talking about what's done. Because we're not talking here alone; we're talking about companies, about small entrepreneurs risking their money, about many professionals who are unemployed, who are no longer unemployed. We're talking about that for cultural VAT, that's what we're talking about. I mean, less words and more facts, even if it's just out of respect for those people. I mean, it's not that we feel bad, it's that we have to lower it down. That's the thing. When you came to the government, there was a debt, as there is always in a state, there was a public deficit. Do you know that debt is now almost 99% of GDP, three years later? That debt is practically all that can be produced, all the wealth of the country, in a year? 29 more points in three years. What have you arranged if it's 29 points higher? Do you know that we have the second largest government deficit as a percentage of GDP in the most developed countries? 'Cause that's data, huh? Do you know what they have done in three years, apart from destroying basic rights and increasing unemployment? I mean, when you talk about these things... If you spoke only of cultural VAT, I would speak only of cultural VAT. But they say that they encourage the Spanish Government to continue to lower taxes and that they do not like taxes. So you like the welfare state? Do you like public services and good roads? Because without taxes there's nothing like that, just for those who can pay it. It's an ultra-liberal message to save anyone. But that is very difficult to share and it is difficult for at this time, in a social and legal state, with a welfare state like we have, to say someone who doesn't like taxes. In any case, to finish with some more data... You said you don't like taxes and want us to encourage your government to go down... You have made the biggest rise in taxes in this democracy, the biggest (it's a question of numbers). And they have now made a tax reform, which came into effect on 1st of this year, which clearly benefits higher incomes and large corporations and which, in addition, has a collection cost of €9 billion. With this, if we have the public deficit that I have just told you, the public debt, if you say yourself that the decrease in collection is 9 billion euros, with what are we going to pay for public services? So, what are you going to do? They don't like taxes, but they will raise indirect taxes, which we all pay, which are not progressive, because the others have already modified them to benefit the higher incomes. The most benefited are income above EUR 175,000, and 10% of taxpayers benefit from half of that tax cost, which is cost, because that is what is no longer being collected. And we could go on. But, man, if you were to talk about cultural VAT, which has not benefited you either... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u59	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Amaitzeko, Euzko Abertzaleak talderen ordezkaria. Arieta-Araunabeñona jauna, zurea da hitza. ARIETA-ARAUNABEÑA IBARZABAL jaunak: Mr.Maneiro, how do we not see positive issues in the proposals of the other groups? We already did it in 2013. The proposal that came out was the one put forward by the Socialist Party, which you supported, and the addition amendment made by our group, and today we have done exactly the same. I began by saying that in what is the spirit of the proposal you were making we agreed; in what we did not agree it was that you had chosen a path you knew from the beginning that it did not lead anywhere. That's why I said what I said, and you, who understand it very well, then you've already distorted it. It tells us about the single European taxation. Hey, is single European taxation compatible if it is with Spanish and is incompatible if we have it? Compatibility will be exactly the same. But why do we want her? Because it has been shown faithfully – this is indeed true – that we do it much better when we have the skills, Mr. Maneiro, and I don't understand why you don't support that. To support that is to support Basque citizenship, and you, who call yourself a defender of almost unique Basque citizenship, I am very surprised that you do not seek this for Basque citizenship. What you do often, and lately this is our daily bread, is to tell the Basque Government to patch up what the Spanish Government does wrong. And they do it in all areas. That the government of Spain doesn't do this? Hey, Basque government, you do it. Of course, what they do not count on is that the Basque Government does not have that freedom to do so because it is conditional on basic legislation or state organic legislation that is mandatory. And you know it, but, of course, it's very easy to ask and demagogue with those things. Today I heard on the radio a trade union representative, to justify a strike, that the legality imposed by Spanish legislation was not precluded because the issue was to reach an agreement of the parties. Of course, in order to reach an agreement, the parties have to want both parties, not just one party, which is what you are taking to this House one day and another too. The only way to prevent the Government's impositions and its competitive invasions is that they cannot make any basic or organic legislation and that the Constitutional Court does not endorse that interpretation made by the Government of Spain of 149.1 of the Constitution as a competitive source without limits. A change of status is essential for this. Everything else is to put patches and pure postureo with political, party and electoral objectives. That's why we need the skills, to make the life of Basque citizenship better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u60	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for Mistto-UPyD and Euscal Sozialist corrections that have been signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given, 75; the supporters 18; the contrary, 27; the whites are 0; the abstainations 30.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u61	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next up, we vote for the full value of the EH Collect Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 54; white; 0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u62	The correction to the EH Shades integer was not accepted. Then we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters 10; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u63	It's not accepted to the full correction of the Basque Popular Group. In conclusion, we will vote for the full rights of the Eucan patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u64	Because it's the market, we'll vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u65	As it is again a draw, it will be left to the next plenoct. Number of points in theme list: "Pune the other bill made by the legislatures, to protect the Greek Government in order to change the direction of Europe from the very end. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Łódź de Munin is the representative of the EH team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u66	Good noon, everyone. Gramsci said that a real historical crisis occurs when there is something that is dying but does not end in dying and at the same time there is something that is being born but does not end in being born. Today we are witnessing a real historical crisis and the previous reflection represents us as an irrefutable truth. The crises are often said to be the greatest opportunity for change, to break the old and move towards a new reality. This reflection is valid for analysing the current reality of Europe. We live in a time when Europe is locked in its labyrinth of austerity, where there are two paradigms faced. One, the defence of democracy, represented today basically by Greece. And two, a defense of the interests of the financial-economic elite that, let us not forget, provoked a historical financial crisis that has led the UVI to the reality that we know or that we knew before the outbreak of the crisis. Thus, we can define that there are three forces currently faced: the old European model of the welfare state, which is the one that is dying; and two new models that fight for historical hegemony: democracy in front of the banking system. Every person here, represented by the people, must be a part of it; for this is the initiative which we present to-day, because the position of Greece, a democraticly protected position, sets grounds in the direction of a more democratic Europe. We cannot, in our point of view, see Greece as an enemy, but as an ally to the political context of the world, because there seem to be independent States, but they have given their independence, and not to the suprannation of political institutions, but to the internationalized financial entities. It's agreed that there was no such thing as too much of a las institiniums, a supranaciales, sino a las entidades fineancieras interncioles. Syriza and the current Greek Government have assumed the historic responsibility of giving a future and a present to the Greek people and not to 1% of their billionaires. And, thus, it has put in place what has been defined as the national reconstruction plan, which has four bases: one, facing the humanitarian crisis; the second, relaunching the economy and promoting fiscal justice; the third, restoring employment; and the fourth, transforming the political agenda to deepen democracy. And in the implementation of this plan, and against wind and tide, the inter-professional minimum wage has already increased, re-paying pensions to pensioners and now intends to do an audit of the Greek debt to know if there is debt that should not be paid for its illegitimate nature. Well, the markets react as quickly as the European leaders at the service of the markets and seek to pressure the legitimate Greek government to fail to comply with its measures and continue to apply the murderous policies of the troika to the Greek people. Last week we were lucky to have with us the newly appointed coordinator of the team that will audit the Greek debt, Eric Toussaint, who gave us the keys to the audit, and he said that this would be fair and would even monitor the actions of the current Greek government. Toussaint was able to answer all the questions of the different groups present here and gave the keys to what a debt audit entails for any public administration: transparency, democracy and sovereignty. Creditors cannot in any way fix the political activity of a state, and less undermine its executive capacity, especially if the elected government meets its electoral agenda, although, let's not forget, first Greece wants to pay what it has to pay, and second, it is complying with European law when carrying out the debt audit to know what it has to pay. The obligation to carry out the audit is laid down in Regulation 472, concerning countries subject to financial assistance. Article 7.9 states as follows: "A country under structural adjustment will have to carry out a comprehensive audit of its debt to explain how it increased to an unsustainable level and identify possible irregularities". And all this makes the world's economic structures tremble. Yes, democracy scares, and a lot, the markets. The defence of the welfare state and of the social labour and economic rights of the citizenry is very frightening to the markets. But why? For one simple reason: to more democracy and more control of the people of the policies that determine their lives, it will be less the capacity of markets to continue the expoliation they carry out against world citizenship as a whole. In Greece, the humanitarian crisis lives, while the European Union condemns the Greeks to the auscism by the pressure of European and international banks. I don't care if these policies lead people to death because they can't pay for food or medical services, or because they drive them out of their houses and compel them to live in the streets. Then I shall read in text the values defined by the founders of the European Union. I now read them, as I said, what are the values of the European Union defined in its fundamental principles, and I read textually: "The values of the Union. The Union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including those of minorities. These values, as set out in Article 1-2, are common to the Member States. In addition, the societies of the Member States are characterised by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality between men and women." After reading what are the values of the Union, can anyone here say that today's Europe defends those values? Or do you rather defend the interests of Greece's creditors? If we are talking about bailouts, we have to say that only 9% of the money earmarked for the bailout was finally made available to the Greek people, since the rest served to pay directly to the creditor banks, mainly – oh, surprise! – Germans and French. This is reality. The States of the European Union have protected the banks and private investors with their speculations, so that they may not lose their money. In the meantime, the Greek Government is under pressure to pay for it. Reality isn't just stubborn, it's also rastrist. The Syriza election program, believe me, is not a revolutionary left-wing program; rather, it is a program that would more intertwine with a radical democratic party. He wants to reconquer the spaces of democracy that have been usurped by markets and merchants, he wants to recover the spaces usurped by politicians at the service of merchants and, of course, by capital and capitalists, with one goal, to give his people a future. In front of that, isn't it fair to protect the work and design of the Greek government from Basque Country? Therefore we hope that all of you will agree with our proposal. I say it frankly, our proposition is realistic: to return to the situation, and to appear in the right direction in favour of the people, to join the people who are demanding respect, confidence, and time; to proclaim what the taccrats of Europe are continually denying. Therefore, on our part, we wish to show support to the Greek Government in the establishment of new priorities. We are also proclaiming honest negotiations apart from threats. And lastly, courage to bring us here certain measures which are applicable even to ours. Europe as a whole is witnessing a change of course: either more democracy or more market. Day by day it is shown that both concepts are incompatible. The interests of banking and capital cannot be superimposed on the legitimate interests of peoples; the future cannot be mortgaged under the burden of debt; the social, economic and political rights of peoples must prevail and be hegemonic in the face of the dictatorship of markets and their undemocratic interests. Today, the ghost that travels through Europe is a ghost with a guadaña in his hand that faces the rest of the countries of the European periphery the same nightmare that the Greek people are experiencing today. In the face of this ghost, we must create an alternative that involves a change of course in the European structures we know, based on solidarity, internationalism and justice. Therefore, from a democratic point of view, there is no other option than to support this proposal that we are presenting here today for debate and thus demonstrate to the Greek people that they are not alone in their struggle for dignity, freedom and dignity, a life that is worth living as free citizens and not as slaves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u67	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u68	Thank you very much, President. This initiative gives me a little bit of modesty. And having to position myself in relation to this initiative, and since UPyD having to tell the Greeks exactly what they have to do, it certainly gives me a lot of modesty, apart from work. I have enough to control the action of the Basque Government, and sometimes even have to control what the Spanish Government does, so that I also have to control what each European citizen decides where he lives and have to say, in this case to the Greeks, what they have to do. What is basically proposed here is that we support the path taken by the Greek Government, that we respect the decision taken by the Greek people and that we actively support the path taken by Greek society. And we're not, logically, going to do any of this. We, yes, respect the decisions made by the Greeks, but we are not going to say exactly what they have to do. I'm not saying it's not a relevant, important matter. I am not saying that it is not a matter that affects us all, the whole of European citizenship and, therefore, the Basques as well. But I'm saying it's an initiative that makes me miserable. Anyway, I don't think we have to go in and tell the Greeks if the path they take is right or wrong, or what exactly they have to do. We are therefore going to vote against this initiative and we are going to support our amendment in its entirety. If I'm in a hurry, I can humbly give some advice to the Greeks about what I think, from a distance, they should do. I believe, from what I have seen and heard, that what the Greeks should do is to push forward all the administrative reforms that are necessary to modernise their administration. It gives me the feeling that what the Greeks, and their democratically elected Government, should do would be to modify or correct all the structures that are in place today in that place and, of course, to modernize them. I think what the Greeks should do is avoid waste and avoid spending what they don't have. I believe that what the Greeks and their Government should do is correct the mismanagement carried out by previous governments and fight hard against corruption. I believe that these have basically been the great evils that the Greeks have suffered over the past few years and I believe that these are the changes that they should be pushing. But, I mean, I say it with all the humility in the world. I also believe that apart from these problems, they should therefore meet their commitments and pay the debt. And I believe that we Europeans should also help the Greeks to make these decisions, for the sake of the Greeks themselves and for the sake of the European citizens as a whole. This is what I am able to say in relation to this issue. I would encourage the Greeks to vote for UPyD in the next elections, but for the time being we have decided that we will not introduce ourselves there; therefore, they will not have that option. In any case, let them consider what problems they have, vote accordingly and be demanding with their Government. This is what I have to say. And what I think we need to do is help the rest of the European citizens make the best decisions to get them out of the situation they are in. I don't think we have to put obstacles on them – some have intended to do so – but on the contrary, help them to go that way. This is basically what we have proposed in our entire amendment. We propose to urge the Government of Greece, the Government of Spain and the European institutions to act with responsibility, intelligence, good faith and constructive spirit so that as soon as possible they can reach the necessary agreements that will improve the well-being of all European citizens. And we propose to urge the governments and institutions of Europe, the Government of Spain and especially the Basque Government – since we are in the Basque Country – to take all the necessary measures, within their spheres of competence, that lead to the fight with guarantees and strength against poverty, job insecurity, social inequalities and unemployment suffered by thousands of citizens, because, in fact, these are the main problems facing all citizens. This is therefore the whole amendment that we have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u69	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing in the district of teams that don't run, representing the Basque Potion Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. The speech he made to us was predictable, the usual demagogy. But I, by focusing a little and speaking for real about the Greeks, will tell you that the problem of Greece is not your debt. It pays the lowest interest rate in Europe since 2013, which was 2.5; today at zero eats nothing. Therefore, the Greek debt interest rate is not the problem. The deadline for debt repayment is the longest in Europe: up to 50 years, with a 10 year withdrawal. So that's not the problem either. You talk about markets, banking... And it's also a lot compared lately to the removal that was made to Germany after the Second World War, and then the Marshall Plan and so on. All of this accounted for 20% of Germany's GDP at the time. The removal that private banking did to Greece in 2012, which was 75% of its debt (private debt, that of banks, those that you say and which you criticise so much), 75%, then the renegotiation and restructuring of debt with European countries, has already accounted for 76% of Greece's GDP. That's today. And I don't know exactly what the purpose of bringing this here is. But do you know what the real Greek problem is, that of the real Greeks? Well, look, I could tell you that you've had the bad luck that the government that was doing things to get out had no absolute majority, and, since it didn't have an absolute majority, it has dedicated itself to demagoguery, everyone else has loaded it up and now they have what they have. Which in Spain, as the Spaniards voted well, has not happened, and that is why we are not in the rescue. And that's why I told him in the committee that I was already sorry to disappoint him, but that Spain is no longer bankrupt. Do you know what the problem of the Greeks is? Your economy or the lack of it. When you have to return a loan at 0%, you have a 10-year withdrawal, what is the problem with returning the debt? That he has no income. That is the problem, that they have no income, that they have no tax revenue – no matter how much the debt is – that they have no income to pay. And what other problem do you have, you talking about markets? The market is not Greece's problem, they have been closed for a long time. None of those markets lends them anything, because it's garbage debt. We lend you the others, the Europeans. But European countries are not: European citizens. For that article you have read about solidarity in Europe, that one. It's not the markets, the markets have no problem with Greece, they haven't lent you money in a long time. None. What's your problem? They need a tax surplus. To have fiscal surplus, generate tax revenues, the economy has to be productive. It has to be a country that creates conditions for companies to invest, that create jobs, that people pay taxes, is collected. And do you know what Greece's problem is today? That Syriza's program, which you love so much, is quite the opposite of that. Yes, because the program is more public spending, more public jobs. And to pay for that? And the income, where do they come from? Nowhere. They have already lost 25% of Greece's GDP in the last four years. And you tell us about Mr. Eric Toussaint, who appeared here last week and we were able to ask him questions. And I made him some; what happens is he didn't answer any of them. It is fantastic to come here and tell us that the money that the Greeks owe us to the Spaniards, for example, because of the loan we have given to them with the rest of the European countries, is illegal and that, therefore, the Greeks do not have to return it, for an act that continues to tell us: "Look, they still have to give us more money, that they have not fulfilled everything". Hey, but is it legal? Is it illegal? But what game is this? What is this? Why didn't you answer that? If it's illegal, why do we have to give more money to Greece? Because, if it is illegal, what we will have to demand from the governments of Spain, France and Germany is: "Listen, not one more euro, and let us replenish ipso facto the money that we have given them, that we have lent them". Look, all they owe us is more than what Bankia's bailout cost. In short, we pay more interest than the Greeks pay. If we had not lent to the Greeks, perhaps we would not have had to ask for loans to rescue, for example, Bankia, who, for you to know, were not to rescue the bankers, as you say, but the depositors and the savers. The owners, the shareholders, all disappeared. And if you're going to keep coming here to tell us that a fantastic policy is not to pay off debts, I told you a long time ago: apply it, don't pay off your debts. May the Gipuzkoa Parliament not pay its debts, may the City of San Sebastian not pay its debts. And then they tell us who's lending them money.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u71	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u72	President, ladies and gentlemen. I do not finish seeing what is the basis of this initiative, I do not finish seeing what is the basis of the exaltation of this accession to the Government of Greece and of this treatment given to the initiative to almost turn the Government of Greece into the symbol of European governability or of the great European government. As I have not finished seeing what a good faith negotiation is either. I understand what a society with conflicting interests is, I understand what a plural society is, I understand what a negotiation between different people is, I understand what a negotiation with objectives, a negotiation with results is, I understand what it is to face up to the political, economic and social problems facing the European Union. However, this initiative is not driven by these parameters of understanding, but by blind adherence to the policy of the Government of Greece, at a time when the Government of Greece does not finish clarifying, moreover, what it wants to do with Greece (perhaps Bildu is very clear, but, of course, we are not clear about it), at a time when the Government of Greece does not cease to make clear what it wants to do with the European Union (perhaps Bildu is clear about it, we do not have it, and we are also part of that European Union), at a time when the Government of Greece does not finish making clear what the feasibility of its economic and social proposals is, because it is also obliged to explain the feasibility of its economic and social proposals. The current Greek Government, which obviously has all our democratic respect, is certainly not our reference. If what was involved with this initiative is to say that it is Bildu's reference in this Parliament, we are aware, but it is not our reference. A government composed of the Coalition of the Radical Left (Syriza) and conservative independenceists (ANEL) is a government based on ideologies so contradictory that it does not deserve our absolute adherence as proposed to us. By citing only two ideological differences with a component of that Government, I would point out that ANEL is contrary to secular education and also to international solidarity with immigrants. But I will add more: I do not share that the coalition of government considers it appropriate, and so it has agreed to form Government, not to separate the Church from the State, or to maintain military spending, when Greece has one of the highest military spending in the world and at the same time a social situation of its highly dramatic citizenship. The Basque Socialists can share, and we share with those who think so, that Greece is a plural reality, subject to various differences and interests, and the European Union is another, as is Spain or as is France, and that no government fully represents and captures that plurality, those differences and those varied interests which in turn shape democratic societies, so no government, as we are asked here, is a creditor of absolute adherence as it has been proposed. Greece has its sovereignty and its own path and the other countries of the European Union as well. And there is also a common area, the European Union, where it is clear that there are huge inequalities, serious social problems and many competing interests. To want to apply to these realities a single thought, a single proposal, I do not understand what political reflection it obeys, and, of course, it is not ours. The Basque Socialists can share, and we share with anyone who wants to share, that Europe has major challenges both for coexistence and for solidarity, equality and social justice; challenges such as protecting countries with economies in crisis – our own is – from the speculators, who have caused it; challenges such as giving another treatment to the accumulated debt, to which, obviously, in some cases, it is absolutely impossible to cope, and who also have responsibility and must take up their share of risk those who wanted to do business with that borrowed money. We have challenges such as promoting the liquidity of countries to meet citizens' needs, something that is not yet happening properly. We have challenges like ending tax havens and their substitutes, which are still there. We have challenges to vigorously pursue tax fraud, which is not yet being pursued; to ensure the economic relationship of the European Central Bank with the states of the Union, which is not yet taking place; to protect constitutionally within Europe a common social area of rights in education, health and social care. We have the challenge in Europe to place full employment as goal one. We also have the challenge of implementing a redistributive public policy that regains equality between people. The political and economic situation of the European Union requires many changes and other policies that are alternative to the current ones, and that is what the Socialists are defending. We work in this regard every day in the institutions of our country and also in the European Parliament. All our respect for Greek citizenship. All our solidarity with the Greeks and Greeks who are having the worst of it. All our determination to regain equality and solidarity. And also our rejection of this initiative for proposing an accession that is politically, illogically and inexplicable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u73	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians represent the team. Lady Arriega, your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u74	I left where I left off. We believe in democracy. The Greeks have chosen a new government, which they have a perfect right to serve for it; and they are but two things before us: to pay our respects, and, if ever, to know their situation, to wish them good fortune even from a distance. As Varufaïs has said in a conversation, democracy is a fundamental democracy, because its opposite is dictatorship. We all agree with Varufakis, and so it is in Greece, but in Sweden, which is so in Germany, and, in no way, Euskadin. This initiative we are discussing was introduced by EH Collect on the 12th of February. That same day he had a meeting with some man from Syria. We could read during the recurrences: "H Collect apoya al nuevo Gobierno de Greece de Syranza a las amentias de la Troika." Erricos Filais, miembro del Commitétrual de Syriza se reúne con Rebeka Ubera." And that very day he introduced himself. And, as you have done today, Monsieur lópez de Munin, you have severely censured the politics of the European Union in the same manner. It is true that in the past few years the beauties of Europe have carried the principle of competition far away, and that it is necessary to change this tendency for the good of all, that chance does not hold good in it, and that it alone has no active politics for economic support. It is true that this economic crisis in which we have lived has been dangerously opened by European tours. It is true that until now a central bank which would have nothing to do with the debt of each state, and the only currency we have, has stolen from the States an instrument which was customary to face the economic crisis, namely, a delubation of money. There are many truths. As for the rest, it is true that the belief that the globalizations of the finances and the markets were to be controlled by themselves in 2007, and in Europe, that the banks were corrupted in a great measure, when we are still suffering seven years after eight years in the real economy. That's all true. It is true, too, that upon a new state of loans the speculators turn round like vultures, turn, move. If all these are true, there is a great many other truths. For instance, since the beginning of a democracy in Greece in 1974, there have been 15 Laws, with so many democratic elections, that the people of Greece have chosen their representatives. Not all these years, but most of the time, PASOK Party has been in charge. Yesterday on Wikipedia I looked at the principles of this party, because it still exists. It put it like this: "The independence of corruption, the sovereignty of the people, and the democratic process." There are three PASOK principles. Well, from the result of its activity, it has not at once succeeded in adapting these principles to real political activity or practice. Not the rest of the years that Paul and the rest of him have been personally governed by him. It is true, also, that, from the execution of the criteria of Maastricht, and following the conditions for entering into them, Greece, or at least the governments of Greece, have but lied about their debt and their defence. Or it seems to be said that in Greece the custom of not paying taxes is very extensive; or that they have had a great public sector; or that they have, as has been said, an immense military expense. And on the other hand, the productive Greek economy is not very competitive. The national Greek debt was 94% of 2007, between 142%, 2020% of the original risk dance. In 2010, the government demanded PASOKO to save the payment break. Under the consequence of the loan, the conditions of Greece were extremely severe, great restrictions have been established in public affairs, and the conditions of life of the people, as is known, have been greatly mistaken. Constraints have contracted a crude internal exploit, which has reduced the revenues still further, and the government has been obliged to demand more and more money to pay its debt. And that's the process of Greece. So that in 2011, Greece demanded a second ransom, and her marriages of Europe gave her 130 billion euros, and, as has been said, the private creditors of Greece accepted a payment for it, and nearly three-quarters more than 80 per cent, the value of the Greek bond was diminished. And so Greece obtained other 100,000 euros. In 2014, New Samaras Democracy, we heard the President of the Party celebrate the sensitive, "Graze has succeeded! "Do it. "Today begins his way to growth! "He said, and shortly after Samaras lost the elections and very democraticly won the Syriza. And now there's the new Greek government trying, we think. In February Syriza managed to provoke help. So he presented a reform plan. If you take a look at this reform plan, you can't disagree with so many of the things that appear there. How can we be? We're not partying. We agree with the general health services. We are agreed to oppose the tax-pressor, to stop the counterband, to put active employment policies in motion, with the control of the public expenditure, and a number of other measures. That's right. But, it seems, the productions of Europe are not very sure whether they are fulfilling that which commanded Greece. Or else the tensions we have seen in New York at FMI's residence in the past few days may be a mere exportation to facilitate the sale of a new arrangement which each of us will have to make at home. Who knows? It is said that the Greek Government is in the greatest danger of being deprived of pensions and pay money at this moment. That's the state of the Greek government. I'd make a few short references. First, politics do not change because they have changed names. It seemed as if it had been an immense achievement to abolish troika, but instead of removing the troika, only the word troika has vanished. And there we have seen Varufakis, the residence of FMI, or the bilers of European Europe, etc. So this is merely hypocrisy. Two. We wish the Greeks and their rulers not only good luck, but good minds to get the Greek people out of this situation as soon as possible. And we also ask Europe not to give up the Greek people, and in this measure it is reasonable to attempt them. But we are not the third time to obey the proposal of EH Collector. Why? For even with all our concerns and concerns we have, the Greeks would take our rear as before. One, that. And on the other hand, because this legislature is no longer a government to administer any kind of political inspection, not one side or the other. As Brecht said, the unfortunate country where heroes need them. In ours, perhaps without Greek heroes, due to constant labour, the situation is quite different. Even though there's serious problems here. But we've always had the principles of social barrier. On February 12th, we read another thing during the journals, the words they spoke of a member of the legislature, which is not now among us: "Tas el encuentro, la parlamentariania ha advertido de las medicas de aures impustas a grecia somicares a los recortes apericado en sanidad, policas sociles, empleo y edución." Varufaïs and as we have said, democracy is a fundamental democracy for life, but there are other elements which contribute a great deal to each other's life. For example, not to lie, and, for instance, to say nothing foolish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing on the answers, Mr. Lopez de Munin, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u76	Yeah. I don't know if it's a mockery again, but we are trying to bring the debate into comic terms (which do not want to pay the debt...), or we repeat over and over again that the Syriza government is either supported or not supported by certain parties. You'd have to make some history. And in relation to whether or not you want to pay the debt, I believe that you have not understood me or have not listened to me. Obviously they want to pay the debt. That's what they said, too. What they are doing is an audit of which debt is legitimate and which should not be paid, because no one should pay it at all. I'll give you an example. In the Community of Madrid, a work cost the public administration more than 100 million euros. It was privatized and now it is the City Council itself that has to rent that work for use. Those 100 million euros they cost are an illegitimate debt, because a work that was paid with public money has been privatized. That's what we're talking about. It has also been said that the Syriza Government cannot be supported because it is supported by the right. Man, who PASOK or the different PASOK governments have supported to the Greek right would say little, when PASOK was one of the responsible for the great military expenses. And if we are talking about military expenditure, we should also remember that military expenditure is one of the conditions sine qua non imposed on the Greek Government in order to continue to receive American and European investments. It is one of the conditions that is being put on the table today too, with which those who criticise military spending then argue that Greece can be applied to this series of indications when it comes to dealing with its debt and, above all, what it spends. You say you won't defend Greece. I get it. You have long forgotten – and it is a shame – what terms such as internationalism, solidarity and justice mean. Obviously, they cannot support any government that claims to be absolutely democratic and defend the interests of its citizens and the interests of its people over and above the interests of the bank. But it is that all of you, or many of you, are also responsible for that change in the Spanish Constitution (article 135) in August, in which what took precedence over the rights of the citizen was to pay the debt, that same odious debt that today wants or intends to take away also Greece in order to be able to assist the citizen and to put the interests of the citizen above the interests of the markets. But it should also be remembered that Greece owes the Spanish State, in essence, some EUR 6.7 billion. That's true. Greece also owes – but no longer to the Spanish State; it owes to financial institutions or speculators of Spanish origin – 19.6 billion. What the Spanish Government does not say is that this debt is also endorsed by the Spanish State itself and that, if Greece does not pay it, it will have to pay the Spanish State's citizenship. But that is the responsibility of the Spanish Government, that is not Greece's fault. And if Greece admits that this debt is not legitimate because it is based on private speculators of the Spanish Government who, by the index to which the interest of the Greek debt is paid, wanted to get rich, wanted to make money, that is the problem of the investors. The problem is that you defend that capitalism of friends in which it is always the public administration who loses, because you and yours never lose, because for that is the father state, to pay you what you have invested or all the money you want to earn. That's his problem. There has also been talk of which model or who really owes Greece money. The problem in Europe is that the European Central Bank, to which all states give their money, the money of the citizenry, does not give money directly to the states; it gives it through private financial institutions. And that change was also approved by you; you put the banks to control the public money of all Europeans. That is what you did, also in Europe, that Europe of capital, that Europe so good of all rights and freedoms. This Europe is the only one that defends, over and over again, the rights and freedoms of financial institutions or the interests of banks. Juncker himself, who I believe will not be a strong defender of Syriza or the Syriza government, admitted that the troika attacked the dignity of Greece, Portugal and Ireland during the management of the crisis. He also said, "The troika lacks democratic legitimacy." You give them that democratic legitimacy, you are backing European policies, you continue to defend creditors over and over people. You – and I am not so sure, Mr Damborenea, that the Spanish state is not a bankrupt state – the day you again demand the Spanish state...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u77	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u78	...more commitment or another kind of reform, you'll be back in favor of the bank, you'll be in favor of the creditors and not of the citizenry. And that's the biggest problem. You also represent in this institution the interests of merchants and markets, and others we seek to represent the dignity of peoples, freedom, solidarity and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u79	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Misto-UPyD shouldn't talk. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u80	Look, the Greeks can vote whatever they want and, in fact, they do. And we respect what they have voted for now, the government they have, the previous and the previous, because that is what the Greeks voted for. And, of course, the Greek governments bring their budgets to the Greek Parliament, they approve, with debt, income, expenditure, etc., as Syriza is doing today, if it is doing so. If you are, because I do not know that you have submitted any draft budgets; I suppose you will at some point. We respect that. What we said to Mr Toussaint, and to you again now, that there are people here who are filled with democracy and democracy and it is only democracy that she says (like Hitler or Stalin, what they said was very democratic, because others do not think)... The Greeks can vote what they want and the others can vote what we want. And it is not compulsory to be in the euro, the one who wants to leave; it is not obligatory to be. Now, if you want to be, there are rules and partners. And the Greeks can vote whatever they want, and the Germans whatever they want and the French whatever they want and the Spanish whatever they want. I'd miss more! We really need to have a lot of money to say, "It's that the Spaniards owe us," and I say to the Spaniards because we are the ones who pay with our taxes (in Greece I don't know who pays, here we pay), "6,700 direct". And he says, "And the other 19,600 are backed up, but they're from the bank." I have told you before: yes, the private bank took away 75% of the Greek state in 2012, obviously forced by the Member States, which also pledged to lend. And it was the rescue of Greece. And this is the solidarity of European citizens with a European country with many problems. If today they have health (bad, the one they have), it is because we Europeans pay for it; if they have education today, it is because we Europeans pay, and if they keep asking Europeans for money, it is because they do not have enough income to pay them that. I have told you from the outset that the problem is not debt, that they have to pay it in 50 years' time; that it is not interest, which is 0 %. Don't come here and demagogue with these things. And, I repeat, I do not know what concept you have of Europe or what concept you have of democracy. Is it only democratic in Europe what the Greek Government says? Can't the others think? Do you all have to do what the Greek Government says because you like it? You're telling me that Syriza now does not propose not to pay the debt. I don't know what you're up to, but I don't think you're up to either; nobody knows what you're up to. They know they've been in trouble with an election campaign, saying a few things, and that nobody gives them a hard time with that. And that you come today to tell us that the European states are still stealing from Greece, and that you come to us, as Mr Toussaint came to us the other day, saying that the loan that we Europeans have given to Greece is illegal, that therefore you do not have to pay for it, but "please give us more, that you have still promised to give more"... It's not even half serious. And, of course, you are doing the Greeks little favor, you and those who pose that, which, incidentally, is no Greek, because Mr Toussaint this one I think is Belgian, which is the one who said the things he told us in the committee the other day, and you think he is not Greek at the moment either.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u81	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists represent the group. Prinett must not speak. Eubertarians represent the team. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u82	The truth is that I don't think much of what to say after hearing the second speech of Euskal's spokesman Herria Bildu, unless he doesn't stop surprising me – and at this point I shouldn't – how they show such a sectarian view of politics and, moreover, what life should be, at least, democratic. You do praise democracy, but you understand democracy exclusively within the grid that you like. All that comes out of the tile that you occupy or something that seems very similar to you or that you like for whatever reason it is at a given time, all else, is not that it no longer exists, is that it is not democratic. How can you say that? You will either like it or not, but in this life multiplicity is a law. And this diversity of logic is the application of opinion, of point of view, of politics, and every one has a right to have his opinion, of each of you and of others his own. I don't see how it can be done. Is the government of modern Greece democratic? Of course it is. As the people have chosen it, so no one can deny it; as all who were before were good or bad. As all Germans are, whether they like it or not, and of all places, if they are determined by the people. Then this dichotomy: "We are the Democrats," that is to say, "we are the Democrats," that is to say, "we defend the people"; and all the rest, which are not you, we are condemned to be subjects of what interests we are. How can you act like this in a political debate? I don't know if I just had to come down to say this, but, by the way, I felt the need. And as far as I'm here, one more thing. We refuse your proposal, because we are neither Greece nor any other policy to acknowledge it as good or bad in its universality. Eta UPyDk aurkeztu duen zuzenketari ere ezezkoa emango diogo. Because we are not going to deprive ourselves of nationalist suffocations either at this point, Mr. Maneiro, I'm sorry. Because the truth is that if there are few excuses that the Spanish Government has had in turn over the past 35 years to go and lick the competences that legitimately correspond to us – not that they corresponded to us, not that they correspond to us, but that they correspond to us – depending on that Statute of Gernika that you – especially those of you who are facing it – over and over again say that it is a meeting point for all of us, because if there are few excuses, I know, the basic legislation or the judgments of certain courts of high instance, this leaving us apart from the areas of debate that would correspond to us according to our own competences according to the Statute also in Europe is the third leg of the centralizing, uniformizing involution of the Spanish State. I'm done with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 54; white; 0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u84	Original text not allowed. Then we vote for the full correction of the Misto-UPyD team. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 74; votes given, 75; in favour 1, 64; white, 0; abstentions, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u85	Integer correction not allowed. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal made by the Socialists of Euscal, by the law of Parliament, concerning the execution of a scheme for public employment. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Sánchez has the word to present and take off her initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u86	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen. My parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, brings to this plenary a request for compliance and a parliamentary mandate which, like so many others, it seems that, as the Lehendakari said, "they take it as guidance, but not as the majority will of those who represent the Basques and Basques." And it's true. Ten days ago, the Government analysed a draft on the line exactly one year earlier. A draft that to become an effective plan needs the help of those who will be affected by the Euskadi General Administration's employment plan. That is why we are talking about consensus in that mandate. But it does not mean that this will be the case, and we are very afraid that this plan will remain in the same window as all those who are accustomed to presenting this Government. I have reviewed where this plan comes from and referred to my group's question to the Councillor for Public Administration and Justice, Mr Erkoreka, in November 2013. In the same formulation of the question, Idoia Mendia offered the diagnosis. It did so because the previous Government had already raised concerns about ageing and generational relief. And he commissioned the report, which was done by the department's own services. By the way, also with the gender variable, however much we are now presented as novel. And in his answer, the counselor confirmed the existence of this diagnosis, because he completed some of these data. Therefore, as noted in this reply to Parliament in November 2013, the diagnosis was already made. What was demanded was to act from the diagnosis. But, following in that same intervention, then the counselor said it was not a peremptory or distressing matter. He reported on the establishment of a working group, and five months later, in April 2014, the PNV group accepted our criterion of developing a consensual employment plan that would ensure generational relief. Well, one year later, there's no plan. There's a new diagnosis, the draft of that plan. And measures are proposed within it, but there is no explanation as to how and within what time frame they will be put in place. What Mrs Mendia hoped for in November 2013 is confirmed, which can end up in paralysis by analysis. You already have a new analysis. Now what? He's been moved to the general table. The PNV proposed in its amendment that a process of dialogue be opened, but this government confuses the dialogue with the agreement and today has a serious problem in reaching agreements with public workers. Socialists are extremely respectful of labour negotiations. That is why it is a clear finding, and this is explained by each and every trade union in the negotiating tables, that the Government sets out its criteria and does not really strive to negotiate and agree. We can quote again all the open fronts: the RPT of Lanbide, the plans of the Ertzaintza, the ERE in Eusko Irratia, Osakidetza again in a shared mobilization... And we can repeat what has already been heard repeatedly in this House. You boast of some agreements with the Rajoy Government; you also presume of discrepancies, but also of agreements, but there has been no effort to improve the replacement rates, since our interim rate doubles the average of the State Administration. In the past legislature it was done, and this allowed for the holding of OPE paths both in Osakidetza and in Education, precisely to improve the stability of the templates that must ensure the provision of these public services. In this legislature, however, what do we have? The approved OPEs are limited, they are scarce, they are replicas of what is dictated by the general budgets of the State, but without an additional effort. There has been no interest in following the path they inherited from reducing interinity. Moreover, the only job call already made has been to cover an ERE that destroys employment in Eusko Irratia. That is why we believe that it is not enough to appeal to a dialogue table: we must appeal to the agreement. And the agreement must be pursued vigorously, because it has the responsibility to guarantee public service. It is up to the administration, it is up to the Basque Government. That is why we believe that time limits should be set, because at this point in the legislature there are no longer generic plans that do not set targets in time. On the other hand, we also believe that a calendar of public offers of employment should be established, because it is not worth announcing an intention in a governing council, making it concrete weeks later, opening tables of dialogue without seeking real consensus within them and losing itself in time without anything materializing. And I would like to recall the express and unfulfilled mandate of a year ago, to which the group that supports the Government expressly committed itself, which was literally saying: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to draw up an employment plan for the Basque administration designed by the organization, in the medium and long term, in response to the needs of demand for current services and guaranteeing through a deliberate and consensual planning the generational relief. And analyze within the current regulatory framework the possibility of convening public job offers in the same year 2014". In September last year, during the general policy plenary we asked the Government for this; we have also done so later in full control. And a year later, as I said at first, we have a draft with a diagnosis and proposals without objectives. We're very concerned about your concept of the public. We are very concerned because their attitude tells us that they do not understand that it is public employees who guarantee public services. We are concerned that they sit before trade unions as business managers, but not as guarantors of citizens' rights through these services. That is why today we want to renew the previous mandate, the mandate that was signed here a year ago, but with a deadline: before the end of this session we will have to have an employment plan from the General Administration of Euskadi and also a timetable of public offers of employment that will make possible this stability of staffing. Also with a method. And we ask you to negotiate with the unions. But let them also make an additional effort. Let us not make a mere paripé of negotiation, but let us really seek the agreement. Let us not just engage in this dialogue, but seek consensus. And also with one objective: to ensure the indispensable generational relief and to guarantee the provision of public services from criteria of efficiency adapted to the needs of citizens, with public employees with decent and stable working conditions and wages, well trained and prepared to meet current and future challenges. Staff must be rejuvenated and temporary posts strengthened, avoiding the decapitalization of potential staff; achieving equality between men and women; and adapting jobs to the needs arising from new technologies and the demands of e-government. Our initiative was presented in January this year. Subsequently, 10 days ago, the draft was submitted to the Sectoral Bureau of the General Administration of the State. We're at that moment. That is why this compromise amendment, which I support here today. And I thank the groups that have signed it (the Basque Nationalist Group, the Popular Group and the UPyD Group) because I believe that progress is being made. Because not only is it called for to be done, but within this compromise amendment there is already a deadline. And it literally says: "The Basque Parliament urges the government to have before the end of the current session present in the House a plan of employment and a timetable of calls for public offers of employment for the whole public sector, negotiated with the representatives of the workers, in order to guarantee the indispensable generational relief and guarantee the provision of public services from efficiency criteria, adapted to the needs of citizens, with public employees with decent and stable working conditions and wages, well trained and prepared to face the current and future challenges". To the EH Bildu group, which is the only group that has not joined the signing of the compromise amendment, I would like to say that I feel that they do not join this agreement, because I believe that it is vital at this time to set a deadline, so that the Basque Government will have that deadline as a ceiling, which will also coincide with the deadline of another mandate recently adopted here, under which the public employment law was requested to come to this Parliament before the end of this session, also negotiated with the trade union representatives. They are therefore still in time to join, although they have not signed, in this compromise amendment, because I believe that at this stage in the legislature, as I have said, it is also important to set a deadline. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u87	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Passing the crews who are running the corrections, Mr. Barrio, representing the Basque Potion Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. Quite briefly, because the agreement is broad and Mrs Sánchez has also explained the content of the agreement. We were in favour of the initial proposal. Of course, we have sought the transaction and signed it. I believe that, as she said, it is a step forward, and we now hope that the Government will act in connection with the negotiation of the plan that the Government has also approved; in the form of a draft or a proposal, but in any case it is there. As I said before, the initial proposal was fine. But we also thought – and that is why we have made an amendment, but not a full amendment, but an addition – that we should also urge the trade unions themselves to do their utmost to help the administration and to work together on the constructive, negotiating aspect of all these issues that we are talking about. I do not think it is necessary to do more, especially on a day of strike, in this case, in Osakidetza. Needless to say, it's bad news for the country. That is why I believe that from this House, too, we can say and transfer trade unions, and that is what we wanted... Philosophically, it may be included in the compromise amendment, but we specifically said so. We urged "the representatives of the workers of the Basque public administration, in pursuit of the aforementioned objective of employment, to collaborate with the Administration with realism and objectivity in the negotiation", realism and objectivity that often shines through their absence. Indeed, the compromise amendment contains three basic, fundamental elements in relation to the process of this whole debate on this issue. There is a deadline, the current session, for the public employment plan to be presented to this House. A calendar – second of the questions – of calls for job offers for the public sector as a whole. And, of course, the basic element, the fundamental and important element: that negotiation with the workers' representatives in search of the agreements, a negotiation to which the Government must be urged at this time, as it has an instrument to do so. And we will now see the willingness of the workers' representatives, some of whom are more focused on political struggles than on labour interests. The government presented us with a first employment plan, there were its approaches. The fixed picture of the plan shows an average staff of 50.8 years, which will retire by 60% before 2030. There is a high interinity rate. The plan identifies gender inequalities. The Government proposes to the unions a joint action to rejuvenate the workforce, consolidate the temporary jobs avoiding decapitalization, achieve gender equality, adapt the jobs to the needs of a new e-government... There are the targets, the big lines. Let's see what happens. The priority objectives were these: consolidation and rejuvenation of the workforce, transfer competitions, special consolidation processes, public offer of employment; a second group, that adequacy of the organizational structure (fundamental element, on the other hand); and, that third element of which we spoke before, equality between men and women. There are other actions, but, well, let's see what the government sends us. In any case, I believe the agreement is broad, the agreement is a step forward. In that regard, my group will vote in favour. He will be vigilant about the attitude and development of the negotiations and the development of the document by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u89	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u90	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. Today, for our society, it is one of the greatest concerns to face the presidency that is in question. The unemployment rate is very high, because there are over 171,000 people out there. But at the present day, however, it is not enough to prevent unemployment; Here are some facts about the situation, very little: the rate of young unemployment is almost 40%, from the new contracts, 93% are temporary contracts, and they're contracted to 83% of partial labor contracts. After these records there are people, thousands of young men and thousands of women. Tonight's crisis when the Administration has to reinforce public services. On the other hand, in the course of the last few years we have just seen the opposite; By the influence of the worst policy, several public services have been privatized and reduced in the name of prejudice. Some people think it'll take us out of a crisis, but it'll be just the opposite, because the wrong situation of people in the danger of poverty will increase. It is, therefore, indispensable to the regrouping of EH to strengthen public services and offer quality services, if the rights of all persons are guaranteed. The initiative we're discussing today is that we're here to comply with the other proposal which was approved of last year. We must observe that this proposition was made with votes against EH Collector. Then we bring back the arguments we spoke of today, and I will explain them again. PSE requires an illegal proposal to present an EPE's calendar which will be called by the Administration in the whole public sector, and to make a job for Administration to guarantee the relegative of elderly men. Before discussing this team, three weeks before EH Collect introduced himself and discussed in this house a motive which had most to do with the initiative. In this fashion, we proposed precise measures to create employment in the public sector, or at least not to destroy employment, but unfortunately these demands did not succeed. As to the rest, we proposed as follows: that the working year of the public sector should be 1592 hours, filling the substitutions from the first day, not vexing the remaining jobs, paying 100 per cent on the seats from the first day, and finally suspending public service privatization. The principal object was to stop at least the destruction of the public employment with these precautions. But, as I have said, three weeks after the refusal of this initiative, the socialists asked for a public employment plan. But the most amazing thing was that the Socialists had agreed to do with fun first. EHG was very critical, and it's with that job plan. I'm sure the funk can make a job and make a new one run a million measures, but he'd have to run, either in private or, of course, in public. Besides, he has the greatest power of intervention in the area of the public sector. In the work-making plan introduced by M.M., the measures are taken only in private, and most of them are the programmes that produce temporary employments, the preparation of employment. We think it would have to be fun when we started a social job, but we can see how it was that, from a number of decisions on the one side, the job has been destroyed in the public sector. We don't say that by ourselves, but all the unions say it. We're not all going to be wrong, are we? Among these decisions, it is necessary to abandon the 35-hour practice, not to replace it from the first day of the year, and to compromise it. We have a clear example of this in the street today: All the unions for members of the community, all of them, have called the strike. The workers require no privileges, but only the conditions of the work which will guarantee the services of quality for society. As I said before, this is just an example. We can talk a long time about what's going on in teaching, how many teachers go sick to give schools because they don't get paid every 100 percent day. PSE requires an appeal to the public employments necessary for the young of the administration, and, in spite of this great object, EH Collect thinks there is very little to be desired. EPE stabilizes jobs and that's very important. Besides, with these EPEs, not only the workingman's youth would encourage the young man, but, by the way, it would have to be advanced in retirement. But we know that EPE does not usually produce new jobs, but that in most cases they only bring everything to rest. You're also asking for a job plan in Administration. As I have said, we must set measures to maintain both jobs and to create new ones in the public sector, but we believe that they must be associated with an integrated job plan, and that others, in support of budgets. So for us, it's a very poor request. In the correction we have laid before us, we require a certain degree of moderation, namely, the measures which will be useful to the production of employment in the public sector. At the first point, we ask that public services are indispensable to guarantee basic rights, that the policy of strengthening these services may be made, and that it may secure the necessary resources from the budget. At the second point, we demand that, in order to strengthen public services, the destruction of jobs in public must cease, and the reductions made in the last years may be cancelled. As I've been telling you, by a number of decisions I've made, public sector has destroyed jobs in the past few years. Amongst these decisions, there is an increase in practice, as well as in others. That's why we need to stop those restrictions. The third point is, that, considering the average number of the workmen of public services, they may take the measures of younging the workman, and that the latter should descend from a retreat, and be reduced from one age to another, and leave the bounds imposed on that field. Finally, at the fourth point, he might secure a collective negotiation at the general table and at the sactorial tables, and settle the measures of the public service with the union of union agents. These are the decisions that would really have the right effect and the measurements in the public sector to create jobs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Myst. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u92	Thank you, President. Only to say that I will vote in favour of the transaction I have signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u93	Thank you. Eubertarians. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. We have agreed, as the Socialist team has proposed, to the average proposal, as Mrs. Sánchez said, "All of these groups except to collect EH." As for this half-way that we agreed, the Euskal General had long since declared that he was planning to do a jobs plan as far as the Basque Administration was concerned, and in that sense, as you say, we agreed to the Socialist Party on the 10th of April, 2014. We learned two weeks ago that the State Council had reviewed the draft of the first employment plan of the week's work by filling out what was asked of it as an EZZZAM. And so we'd like to remark that at least this is the first time we've got a document like this in our hands in our Autonomy Eric. As I was saying, it would be the main purpose of this plan to make a diagnosis of the state of the Basque Public Administration, with the administrative jobs and performances of people who fill those jobs, to make a middle-term plan or a long-term planning plan. And with that, we're planning a stunt plan to solve the problems that can be intercepted. So, in the previous half-way (in the middle of April 2014) what you were asked to do, we think the next step must be to share that document with the workers' representatives so that we can recognize their views and complete the negotiation procedure. In this we have made no objection, and have agreed with the divisional proposal which you made. We've seen it right to ask you to negotiate that document with the unions because we think it's going to get rich with their contributions. And besides, we have no objection to assign the deadline you requested to this Chamber at this meeting. I think the EH Collector's been mixed up with the subject today. We are not generally speaking of the conditions of the workers, but of a concrete plan for public employment; it is a tool, to determine the constitution and composition of the administration, and to make the working of the workers. It is not, therefore, a dispute about the specific conditions of the workers' work, and therefore our party has always maintained that the plan of public employment will be an indispensable instrument for the establishment of the functions of human resources, both in the middle and in the long term, and that we must consider the demands of our present organizations and services. And besides, we thought it necessary to anticipate the plan for a well-made change between generations. The facts, as has been said, show that personality is getting older and that in a few years it will be at the age of a large number of public employees. On the other hand, as has been said, the rate of intermediate is high, and we must face this problem as quickly as possible. Again, the result of the equality of genera also exists in Administration, and the measures to disappear must be given precedence. Therefore, for all this, the plan of the public employment must be an indispensable instrument, and therefore we protect this medium. As Mrs Sánchez said earlier, Councillor Erkoreka, in a response to an inquiry at the end of last year, confirmed that work was already under way on the design of a plan for the employment, reorganization or resizing of the Administration in order to anticipate any shortcomings that might exist in the future and to be able to respond adequately. It announced the existence of a working group to develop the plan under article 69 of the Basic Staff Regulations and in relation to human resources planning and the possibility of adopting plans for their management. And so it has been done. This plan fulfils the parliamentary mandate of April 2014. So, at least we understand that the Government has done its part. It has submitted its document and now is the time to negotiate it with the workers' representatives so that they can make their contributions. But we understand that the parliamentary mandate has already been fulfilled, at least as far as the Government is concerned. With regard to the OPEs, we do not miss their importance and the drawbacks of imposing a ban on the development of public offers of employment by the basic state legislation. After all, the fundamental legislation sets limits, which has the right effect on public workers to reduce the temporary rate of time between them, in order to promote the relay from generation to generation, and so on. In effect, the offer to public employment is required for temporary workers to become permanent workers, but as long as the prohibitions or boundaries of calling are still in force, the Eukokion will once more be connected with the hands to encourage them, and he cannot carry them forward as he would, by choice, to provide them with workmen. For the rate of 10% is there, and that boundary continues to continue at the present day's rate. But it is true, as we were asking him in the middle of the 2014 quarter, that he's mad at the attempt to accept public employment offers, and we have examples of that on the edge, the calling of Osamen or education. Therefore, the Basque Government has also announced within the existing law, as promised in the agreement adopted in April 2014, the approval of several OPEs. So, after all, to get deep in that way, we think, like this middle-class guy, it's all right to ask you to ask me to negotiate with the workers' representatives. And I simply confirm the vote for us on this medium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u95	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u96	Mrs Zulaika, I too agree that you have made a mistake here today. The initiative we have presented here today is aimed precisely at that approval of the plan, at drawing up the timetable negotiated with the trade union representation. It is not intended to enter the regulated within it, to regulate workers' conditions. There will be time later to get into that content. That didn't play here today, I completely agree. But what we now have, Mr Orbegozo, at the moment is a draft, because it cannot be said that we already have the closed plan, because that plan is now a draft, it is presented to the sectoral table and the negotiation begins. And, therefore, we will not be able to talk about a completed plan and a real plan until the agreement with the workers' representatives is closed, and I, in my intervention, have appealed to them to fight and to seek that agreement which I believe is fundamental. On the other hand, apart from the plan, it refers to the drawing up of this timetable of public offers of employment, that timetable which we do not yet know well, which they have not negotiated or closed with workers' representatives. And that's fundamental. It is fundamental because it has already spent enough time in this legislature and we still do not really know the places that they are going to take out, the places that will be covered within it. The fixed picture of the plan shows, of course, an average staff of 50.8 years, which will retire by 68% in 2030, with an interim rate of 33.9%. And this draft of the plan detects very important gender inequalities. With more women working, as has been seen, they are employed in lower-level positions and are much more affected by indwelling. Moreover, it also notes that 60.8% of women working in the general administration of Euskadi do so in lower positions than those corresponding to their training. We have 4,888 career and acting staff working in the General Service of the Basque Administration and the plan must effectively and efficiently reorganize this structure to meet the three short- and medium-term priority challenges. I therefore believe that the compromise amendment that we are going to adopt here today is important. But I hope that the Basque Government will fulfil before the end of this session the mandate that we are going to adopt today, that it will bring us the employment plan of the Basque administration and the timetable of public offers of employment agreed and negotiated with the trade union representatives. We are talking about the present and future of our Basque administration. I think the effort is worth it. They fulfil once again the mandates approved in the House with regard to public employees, because if not, in June we will be suing again and we will be denouncing their non-compliance here. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u97	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. The Basque Popular representative must not take the word. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u98	Thank you again, ma'am. For EH Bildu, if it is important to create employment and the Government to develop and design policies and programmes to help create employment, it is more important to maintain existing employment. And we believe that we cannot talk about a public employment plan unless we reject the measures that have helped to destroy public employment. We therefore believe that it is not we who have been confused with the debate, but the rest of the groups. Today you're fighting the workers' petition with that correction you signed to the EPE's calendar, but more than the unions, more than EPE, require that the restrictions be cancelled, and that's not received. They require delay of work, to fill the substitutions as before the crisis, to examine the charges of labour and the needs of new public services, and to create new jobs necessary to prevent them. The unions say, "You're crazy," and they're just about to push the decision back with one side to increase the work. By this means we are certain that public employment would be created. That correction helps you whitening your face, forcing it to go a little further, because the precise measures don't get. And it's just a bad deal or a partx deal. And I'll give you an example. In the last week, also, Mme. Sánchez, you have discussed the plan of general Administration which Mr. Erkoa had not yet arrived in this house. But the unions have already rated that plan. In particular, ELA says about this plan: "There are no periods in the document, no number of squares for each category. As there is no specification at all, we are afraid that it is not a drill-ball, which the Government immediately pretends to draw out the calling of the square, to excite illusions before elections." So if these are plans, they won't be of any use to actually create a proper employment. Or what they think about the project of the law of public employment: All unions are against the bill. Today, insignification from Madrid has been given as an argument not to give effective progress. We think it's a hypocrisy. If we don't agree with these compositions, we should take measures among all of us to face these compositions. We have to take steps to make our own path.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Maneiro mustn't speak. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u100	Thanks again. Mrs. Sánchez, I told you before: We think the 10th of April 2014 is what he wanted to do for himself. Izan ere, they've got zen... to draw up "an employment plan for the Basque administration designed by the organisation, in the medium and long term, responding to the demand for current services and ensuring through a deliberate and consensual planning the generational relief". That is, his part, his part, the proposal, has already been made. Then, in that sense, we understand that the mandate has already been fulfilled. Another thing is that now is the time to present it to the workers' representatives and to negotiate before we can know here what the final text is going to be. It is clear that agreeing is not the same as negotiating, but it is clear that this is something that is happening to everyone. In 2010, when there was a 5% reduction in civil servants' salaries, when the relief contract was eliminated, and so on, when a number of decisions were taken by the Socialist Party government, they were decisions that were neither agreed nor negotiated with the trade union representation. So we understand that one thing is the will, that is to negotiate, that everything is done to reach agreements, and another is that it is possible. Of course, we understand that in this case the Socialist Party is not in a position to teach anyone lessons, nor to reproach decision-making without reaching agreements. And we understand that at least a negotiation process needs to be carried out. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u101	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists, Misto-UPyD, the popular Eukal and Eubertarian policy signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 21; white, 0; abstations are 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-23.u102	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was ten past two in the afternoon.
