ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Preceding theme: "The same proposal as the Socialists of Euscal, the new law-giver of working accidents and diseases, was made by the law of law. As for the other legal proposal, it is permanently decided that the drawings of the 8th party of October, followed by the 92.1 article of the board." It was a draw in the third and fourth vote of the original initiative introduced by the Basque Socialist. Following the 92.1 article of the ruler, we're going to make that point again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters 35; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstinence, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u1	As a result, this point has not been accepted. Presidedly on the subject. "to appoint a member of the Basque Act of the Memory, Collegation, and Human Rights Institute in the Council." In accordance with the article 234.6 of the Eusual Act, each member of the legislature is within five minutes. Do you think any of the teams would like to join? According to Article 96.3.b of the Rule, the choice will be made by tickets. However, seeing other precedents and no alternative candidates, I propose to make the nomination without vote. If any member of the legislature has any objection? No. So, Mr. Pastor Gardo is represented as the representative of the Basque Congress of Memoirs of Memoirs, Survivals, and Human Rights Institute. First point in theme list: "The solution of the ethical development and the Board of Compulsion upon the bill of law on the state of peasant women. Discipline and final resolution. "Mingorn has the word. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Congressmans, good morning to all of you. It is a pleasure to me to present a project of the law of the State of husbandry women in this Chamber for his approval; for we are also fulfilling one of the engagements of the legislation which this government has taken for this legislation. With the approval of the State of Women of Farmers, it is answered that this necessity of resisting the lack of confession in agriculture, especially their professional value and their social esteem, and of the necessity of really using their professional, social, and public rights. The State assumes the rights of farmers from the starting-point to ensure that those rights are really used by public administration as necessarily necessary. So in the agriculture sector, the law takes the necessary measures for women and men to trade and get the same chances, and in all the fields of the sector to keep the specific view of the genus, for in the sector women and men have different conditions and needs. A lot of peasant women are in this sector of discrimination that women have always had. The importance of women in the rural development of Euskadi is undeniable. The existence of women in different activities in a rural environment is a symptom of development, and if we work to ensure the presence of women in the agricultural sector, we will therefore be supporting and strengthening the future of a rural environment living in Euskadi. However, we have much to correct. The proportion of women holding farms does not correspond to the actual work they do, since on many occasions they are unseen jobs, such as transformation work, but above all marketing tasks, which are two of the fundamental pillars in generating economic value in this sector. We must therefore also promote women farmers' access to farm ownership, which is one of the priorities of the law. Another area of intervention is that of people hired on farms, since the recruitment of women in this sector is significantly lower than that of men. With regard to the situation of young women as midwives, there are still large inequalities between the two sexes, since the percentage of women holding holdings in the hands of young people is actually lower than that of men. In addition, we must take steps to ensure that young women have employment opportunities that enable them, if they so wish, to remain in rural environments and achieve generational relief and keep the environments alive. In addition, the participation of women in decision-making bodies in agriculture is also lower than that of men. There is a clear need to ensure their presence and participation in these decision-making bodies. In addition, there is a need to consider differential factors in the health of men and women in agricultural activity. The aim is to ensure the health of women in this agricultural work. This status of women farmers has no normative precedents, although there are many recommendations in all directions and even mandates for development. Thus, Article 157(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states that Member States may maintain or adopt measures offering specific advantages designed to facilitate the exercise of autonomous activities by the less-represented sex or to avoid or compensate for disadvantages in the professional career by reason of sex. Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 December 2013 on support for rural development through the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (the EAFRD) also provides for the possibility for Member States to include in their rural development programmes thematic subprogrammes addressing the specific needs of women in rural areas. It should also be noted that, within our normative sphere, Law 4/2005 of 18 February on Equality of Women and Men establishes the general principles governing the work of the public authorities in the field of equality of women and men, and regulates a series of measures aimed at promoting and guaranteeing equal opportunities and treatment of women and men in all spheres of life, and in particular at promoting autonomy and strengthening the social, economic and political position of women and men. This law also lists among its principles equal treatment (understanding the prohibition of discrimination), equal opportunities, respect for diversity and difference, gender mainstreaming, positive action, elimination of gender roles and stereotypes and balanced representation in the different areas of decision-making. For its part, Act No. 17/2008 of 23 December 2008 on agricultural and food policy enshrines strong and determined support for women farmers, to whom it seeks to assist and promote on a preferential basis. Therefore, taking into account all these laws and regulations, the statute that is presented today has 31 articles, two additional provisions, one derogatory provision and four final provisions. It is structured into six titles devoted to general provisions: ownership of agricultural holdings, representation of women in the sector, social rights, recognition and visualization of their work and a final one devoted to the monitoring commission of the said statute. The first title, of general provisions, defines the object of the statute and the principles that inspire it. In addition, it contains an article with definitions, some to adapt general concepts to the scope of this standard and others that contain concepts that, although already defined in other standards, are repeated here to facilitate understanding of the text. The second title deals with women's access to ownership of agricultural holdings. In order to give consistency to the text, it accepts the requirements laid down in Act No. 19/1995 of 4 July 1995 on the modernization of agricultural holdings, following its reform by the law of shared ownership, as well as measures to promote women farmers' access to ownership. The shared ownership figure is called upon to be an instrument of great importance in achieving effective equality of rights between men and women in the agricultural sector. This statute encourages farms in which both members of the living unit work for the holding to benefit from this ownership regime by prioritising these holdings in the granting of aid and allocations. The third title deals with the representation of women in the agricultural sector. Three areas of intervention are distinguished here, which are treated differently. Firstly, the Administration and its enterprises; secondly, professional organizations and associations; and thirdly, private enterprises. The three have a common denominator, and it is that of realizing the right of women to participate in agricultural policy and that of being legitimized as valid interlocators in the promotion of policies that represent their interests and needs. The difference in treatment in the three areas mentioned above is given both by the objectives which are considered achievable within different time frames and, above all, by the measures by which these objectives are intended to be achieved. The law therefore sets out a set of time-bound targets for assessing compliance. The fourth title, referring to social rights, covers a number of areas of work which are considered desirable to have specific treatment in the agricultural sector precisely because of their differential nature. For example, programmes to ensure agricultural activity, either in the face of problems of violence against women or harassment, which occur in this sector in a much more closed and silenced area, and which make prevention and care difficult, are guaranteed in the area of co-responsible conciliation. A specific chapter is therefore being prepared for this purpose. The fifth title seeks to obtain the visualization and recognition of the work that women have done in the agricultural sector. To this end, it collects and adapts the provisions of Law 4/2005, in order to ensure that the reality of women's work is always taken into account in a sector in which they have been particularly invisible. Finally, the sixth title creates a commission to monitor compliance with the provisions of this Act, and specific tasks of evaluation and reporting are assigned to the commission. And finally, ladies and gentlemen, by introducing us to accept this bill of law, we end up with a painful process begun in 2010. And it must be acknowledged, in a proper way, that it was a process of violence to the former governments. In this process, too, the technicians of my department have taken part in a large crew of works, in which there have been also persons representing the associations of the women of the three fields, the gift, the Eudel, the three formulae, the EHNE and the Embo. And, of course, you've also been working here on the committee. So I want to thank you all for the effort and the work you've done. The trial ends today, after five years, on October 15, 2015, on the international day of the country women. The day was established by the United Nations in 2008, and from then on Eukadin was celebrated every year, without interruption, and we'll celebrate it again this year. The ceremony will be performed in Markina, we continue to build the future under the motto, and more than two hundred of the people will gather together the peasant women. They are themselves the true leaders of the law, and will probably be waiting for this parliament to celebrate the just confession due to society with the consent of the law. So, everyone thank you for the support I gave you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Any members of the board would like to speak for the judgment? That's all we're going to vote for. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u4	The law of the Common-wealth of Women in Farmers is therefore unanimous. Next, we'll go to the vote. Mr. Maniro, Mistto... He mustn't speak. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz from the Popular Party is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. From the People's Group we have voted in favour of this draft law on the status of women farmers, because it covers the rights of women farmers, their professional recognition, their social esteem, the effective exercise of their professional, social and fiscal rights. We believe that this bill is timely because it sets out the obligations of the administrations to ensure that women have effective opportunities in farming. This bill follows the mandate and recommendations of several European directives concerning the application of the principle of equal opportunities, equal treatment for men and women in the exercise of an autonomous activity in the field of social security, employment and recruitment. Act No. 17/2008 of 23 December enshrines the strong support for women farmers, and in article 75 it directs this House, the Government, to elaborate the status of women farmers and their objectives. Act 4/2005 on equality between men and women includes among its principles equal treatment, equal opportunities, gender mainstreaming, respect for diversity and difference, positive action, elimination of gender roles and stereotypes and balanced representation in the various areas of decision-making; a cross-cutting law aimed at all activities and professions in which women decide to participate. This bill is also mandated by the State Act, Act 35/2011, on shared ownership. Therefore, from the People's Group we understand that the draft law on the status of women farmers is adapted to the autonomous, state and European regulations. From the People's Group we also share the objectives of this bill, which are essentially to promote access to the ownership of women farmers, to encourage the recruitment of women, to promote and ensure that women farmers are present and participate in the decision-making bodies of trade union organizations, agricultural organizations, cooperatives, enterprises and others. This law, as has been said, has 31 articles. We made amendments, some were accepted and others were not. There was a group of amendments that we understood to be important, because one third of the wording of this law is a short and binding one of the 2005 law on equality between men and women. We have been told, and we are told, and we have been justified in not accepting these amendments because they clarify the text. Frankly, if something needs to be clarified, the explanatory statement is for this, but it does not seem to us that a law should contain a percentage of articles that are short and stick to basic cross-cutting laws. The requirement concerning the principle of legal certainty implies that the legislator must pursue clarity rather than regulatory confusion, he must ensure that the rules on which legal operators and citizens are entitled know what to abide by and must flee from causing objectively confusing situations. This bill exemplifies precisely what should not technically be a legal product. A new legal product must contain new regulations. Preliminary draft laws are already informed, prior to their adoption, of the implementation of the Act on Equality of Women and Men. I therefore believe that there is sufficient basis for the project to arrive here, regardless of the area of activity, to be fully explained in advance on this matter. That is why we still do not understand and believe that there is no place for this law to contain a third of articles that are short and sticky of other laws. Our amendments were aimed at achieving a clean, clean law with elements that do not bring new articles, new regulations. However, although this has not been admitted, we understand that the objective of the law is met and that it is good to have a law on the status of women farmers in this Autonomous Community. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. The Social Party representative. Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u7	Thank you, President. Egun on, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, everyone. This 15 October is the International Day of Rural Women and this 15 October we give legal relevance to this indispensable and hitherto little-recognized role of women in the world of agriculture. Today, therefore, for two reasons, our recognition of all these women whose contribution is crucial for the development of the sector to be perfectly designed. We are convinced that this step we are taking is similar to other developments in other areas in favour of women's equality, which are key players in achieving the economic, environmental and social changes necessary to achieve sustainable development. This is a law in that path, in the empowerment of women. This recognized power is fundamental not only to the well-being of rural people, families and communities, but also to economic productivity in general, because, in the future in which we have to think, women play a major role, a fundamental role in the design of the new rural social model and the new model of family, multifunctional and sustainable agriculture posed by the new common agricultural policy. The adoption of the Act on the Status of Women Farmers responds to the need to address the discrimination suffered by women in the agricultural sector, particularly as regards their professional knowledge and social estimation, as well as the effective exercise of their professional, social and fiscal rights. As has already been said, the principles of this Act are equal treatment, equal opportunities and gender mainstreaming and, as I have already pointed out, it legally recognizes what has already been given, albeit without rights. What interests us is, above all, what the law can bring for the future, so that young women also feel the attraction of leading agricultural production without the fear of the discrimination they have been able to experience in the barracks in past times. In this Parliament we make numerous statements in favour of organic production, handicrafts, proximity trade, but, in order for all this to be possible, we need to provide sufficient instruments for those who are betting to keep our fields alive. This law does. It's a clear bet for generational relief. The Socialist Group believes in this law. And, in addition to having taken the initiative of Mr Patxi López's Government, we have contributed what we consider to be of interest in improving the text that the current Executive had brought. What we have tabled are amendments concerning the promotion of access to the ownership of agricultural exploitation, the recruitment of women in the sector, the modification of the traditional model of the division of labour, the introduction of measures necessary to ensure the health of women in agricultural work, mechanisms to ensure compliance with the status or sanctions in their violation, training in the field of agriculture, the participation of women in decision-making bodies, the sharing of tasks – you know that it generates great inequalities between women and men – the recognition of the role and work of women, the promotion of women's membership in social security, the recognition or professionalization of women in the field of agriculture. To our group, the Basque Socialists, it seems important and essential that the agricultural administrations of our Autonomous Community encourage women's access to the registered ownership of farms, as well as to the ownership of aids, payments, production rights, premiums, quotas or other measures having equivalent effects corresponding to their farms. The original spirit of this law was already brought in 2010. It was worked and developed with the government of the PSE, Mr Patxi López. He worked for a long time. It was attended by outlaws, agricultural unions, Emakunde, women's associations in the rural sector, among others, given the importance for their greater and better development of equality and professional equality between women and men. The present Government has gathered the essentials of this proposal and has finally accepted the suggestions of other groups, essentially the socialist, with which the final statute is that which was already outlined more than three years ago...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u8	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u9	So, if any but we had to put in, it would just be the delay. It could have been earlier, but welcome the spirit of agreement and the final result: a work that was thought of in the rural world, in the agricultural sector, and, above all, on the role of the rights of women farmers, rights that are well-deserved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. EHGG rep. Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u11	Good morning, everyone. The country is an international day for women in the field, and I mean that the internal mechanism of the legislature has been used to accept this law today. And I'd like to make it clear that most of the peasant women in the Basque Country don't keep this day, or that many of the women in the wide world celebrate with all the other women the 8th of March together. To be a peasant and a woman is to carry a double weight on her back, to be a woman in a sector so beaten up. A lot of secret work and no reconnaissance. Historically difficult being a peasant woman, it is difficult to be a peasant woman nowadays, and yet it will be even in years to come, although we accept this law here unanimously, because reality is very far from the equality of men and women. And we are often informed that the laws do not change reality, that the laws help the way, and thus we see this law take a step in the way of equality. If we look at the content of the law, it is economically prized, as it were, by the fertility of the exploitations, the share of equality between women and men. And economicly, on the other hand, they are punished if in four years they are not equal to their organs of direction, i.e. they will be deprived of their subsidies. Therefore he who steps on the road to equality is economically rewarded, and he who does not do is punished. And, as this sector is so inconsistent with the aid of money, it seems to us that this measure can produce positive results. We see it very important that, when we calculate the working of farmers, we consider the transformation and marketing besides production. This, for instance, is not only the care of the sheep and the milk of the milk, but the cheese, and the sale of that cheese in the market, because these are the works which women often do. So almost all the proposals that have been placed on the table have been admitted, and there has been a wide consent. And further on, this law which is now approved must be followed; it will be derived from the succession which has been made for it, and even from this law itself. So that the steps you take today in a good direction won't turn back. And here's a hug for all peasant women. Good for you!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u12	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. And finally, Mr. Telllería, the Eubertarian, representing the group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u13	Madame President, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. Today is the international day of women in agriculture, the day of the woman who lives in agriculture, and today we have accepted a law which reveals, shows, and puts the whole society in front of them. That I should be satisfied first, and that the eulogys of the whole community should be unanimously accepted by the parliament. In the pliant of general politics there was made a comment about the tramitation of this law, and it was not fair. Except that, I must say, I felt really comfortable in the whole process of this Chamber. So, my gratitude to those who worked on this project. This same year's report, carried out by the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry, on the identification of needs and obstacles encountered by women victims of gender-based violence in rural areas, addresses with determination a whole problem that ends up being defined as extremely specific and that, in its grave particularity, becomes perceived as normal in the environment in which it occurs. We are talking, therefore, of a specification, of a specialty in the environment of women's inequality, inequality that we know has not been solved at the moment in our society. But it is that in the agrarian world and in the rural world it is, to say the least, superior in degree and with specific factors, such as proximity and social knowledge and invisibility by the remoteness of the urban world. Proximity and remoteness, two contradictory ideas, but at the same time two divergences for the same damage. There is, therefore, a specificity in the problem of women farmers and in the rural world, which required specific legislation to deal with the particularity of their problems, without having to overlook aspects already covered by the Equality Act adopted in 2005 in this Parliament. In fact, it seemed necessary to reiterate them in order to strengthen, if necessary, the law that we have adopted; the repetitive, if it is for justice and equality, is never much more. A woman's work to the farmer's studio has always been important, but her work and dymism have been hidden in the shadow of man's omnipresentity. This situation took place in the currents, and even more in the agriculture world, where its anonymousness was greater, owing to the characteristics of a world which is more remote from a powerful social control. It's the purpose of the law today that we've agreed to make women look at peasants and always confess their importance. Hence, in order that the unions of agriculture may receive subjugations, the law requires them to be partners. It also constitutes a system of positive discrimination in the division area of money. What for? To give a better score for suffering when women or women lead to men. If not forever, for a long time the woman has been carrying out a fundamental work in the farms; and not only that of housewife, who also. Women have been responsible for the tasks of the field, both in production and in processing and in marketing, not being in most cases registered with the Social Security, which deprived them not only of the possibility of a retirement, but of being the holder or co-owner of the company that managed or co-managed, with the appearance in most cases of the man as solely responsible for it, consolidating the woman in a secondary role, which for nothing has been or is true. This bill of law was sent by funk, and in general with the farmer's lawyer, and especially with the women involved. One day, when M.M. sent out a bill of law, we paid off a debt of eucalyptic society, which was our debt to farmers and women. I would like to reiterate my thanks to all those who have contributed to the drafting of the final text. On the one hand, I believe that the message should be clear and clear to men, for we expect a greater effort for equality, while I wish to convey my congratulations to women farmers, who are given a fundamental tool to claim and advance towards the long-awaited and necessary equality. Without going into any debate, which has already taken place in previous papers, without going into when it was possible to do so, who contributed more and other things that have been said, I think that we have all done it, and unanimity is a value that is fundamental today in this country, in this society. I want to end with a phrase by Empar Fayos, president of the Rural Entrepreneurs' Association, who said: "I think there should be no law, not a woman's day, not a rural day or a big city; when they do not, that day we will have reached equality in all aspects." And even though that day has not come, happy day and happy law to all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u14	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Second point on the subject list: "Mortion, introduced by the members of the Leire Pinedo Bustate EH Collector, concerning the policy of unseasonable well-being. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Pindo, it's yours to introduce and take care of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. We are now discussing this cause, in the 2nd of October, in the absence of answering from the head of the Gazahouses, because we believe that this legislature is necessary to explain its attitude in proportion as it is to support the true well-being granted. In this legislature we frequently speak of health, employment, or social politics, public activity, investments, and expense, and the subject remains. They make proclamations over and over again. We have here, as an example, the other proposal which has been admitted to assist the public troubles in the course of the week. But to feed these highly necessary activities, to talk about the guarantees of all those essential expenses and investments in our society, when it's time to propose and decide, it's not even fun itself. Because that's what happened two weeks ago when we asked the tax advisor about the tax policy needed to ensure a state of well-being without cuts. Not a single proposal, nor do I see the position of this Government on how to sustain and develop a true state of well-being. The counselor limited himself to repeating macroeconomic data, exposing legal limitations and bragging about what he considers a reflection of growth and improvement. In short, as it is said footballically, "patadon pa' lante and let him follow the game". And we're worried. We are very concerned that a government that is being questioned about tax policies that must be underpinned by basic policies for the development of an egalitarian, inclusive and modern society shows a total lack of interest in the issue and gives such a poor response that what it shows is that they are at something else. Worse still, this is a government that falls into self-consciousness. He compares with the nations worse than we are; he celebrates the advantages of our well-being, although he was obliged to overcome the obstacles of some of them at his birth. And even if this be true, why does he not regard the people who are better than we, the police of the well-being which has been continued in those countries for years? It is true, they are not all the same, and all are of no use in our country; but there is where to learn. Because it is very easy to come here and boast of an education expenditure of 1,221 euros per inhabitant, because one compares with the Spanish state that barely exceeds 1,000, ignoring the 1,700 of France, the 2,100 of Belgium, the more than 3,700 of Denmark, the 2,780 longs of Sweden or the 2,500 of Finland. And we're not even talking about Norway's 4,700. And the same goes for health, where the 1,560s mentioned by the adviser are far from the 2,800s of France, the 4,000s of Denmark and not to say the 6,200s of Norway. These facts show that there is a way to make it, that we must take strong measures to strengthen our well-being in society, and the system of taxation is, on the basis of which, whether we will or will not, the foundation of these means. But it is a pity that this government, which ought to govern so many policies on the basis of a well-being, has thought little about the sources of money which are necessary for this management. Hence, because we have clear evidence that the euscal society is worth a real well-being, because we seek to develop the euscal society which is based on social justice, we present our proposal here on the table, in the parliamentary law, because we believe that it is absolutely necessary to explain its conduct to the political system of tax-service which is not restricted. Yesterday at the Finantz Basque Council what we said was confirmed by the aid of PP when EAJ and the PSE pushed the established system. That system doesn't seem like it. This system does not at all answer to the degree of well-being which society requires. This system does not answer correctly to a social rupture which is more and more striking in our society. Because the system that the PNV, the PSE and the People's Party agreed to counter the path initiated in Gipuzkoa by EH Bildu for a more just system and with a view to the real well-being of society, that system that you devised, no longer gives. This system not only does not fulfil its redistributive function, but it does not even meet the collection objectives that you yourself have set. Gipuzkoa alone plans to meet its collection objectives. Paradoxical that it is the only territory that still has in force a tax on wealth, the territory that by the hand of Euskal Herria Bildu and with the support of the Socialist Party bet on more progressive, equitable and redistributive taxes. It is true that the Socialist Party then retreated and, with the help of the Nationalist Party and the People's Party, instituted the current failed system. But we have no doubt that the good management carried out by the former outlaw government is the basis of the current best course of action. This is the failure of a pattern, the failure of a pattern that has been considered a biscaia model. So often, when the tax-forms, which PSE and EAJ have praised, were to present for the first time the whole work, it did not pass its examination. And what is the worst, instead of confessing the necessity of changing the course, they have announced the means of penetrating into the error, by changing the Gipus' tribute over wealth and great fortunes. Once again, the Socialist Party is dissolving the course of the tax policy. When the social needs of society are growing larger and larger, when the need of a strong and modern well-being is more and more striking, we make a choice for the establishment of a system of taxing systems which is based on social justice, in order to ensure the unseasonable bond of well-being, and to overcome the social rupture of our age. Because, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot look elsewhere and claim that there is no more money, we constantly regret the tight budget and that the situation forces us to make adjustments. When people and families in poverty and lack of well-being have increased by 41.1% over the past four years and are already more than 247,900 people, when between 2008 and 2014 the real poverty rate in our Community has risen from 4.8% to 5.9%, when there are more than 127,400 poor people (42% more than in 2008), it cannot be said that they once again touch adjustments and that better times will come. And, what's even worse, what you can't fool all these people by saying that there are no cuts in social policies, when it's them and them who suffer these cuts every day. In this case, of course, there is something to be done: to change the tax system and to increase the pressure of the attorney, to tax the capitals and the fortunes of the public, to the level of justice. There is a great deal to be done, for instance, in order to pay taxes according to real profits, and to develop the tribute over wealth and unproductive estates. Let us begin at once with the pressure of the prosecutor towards the average of the European Union. There's a way to do it. And, of course, to form the whole system of taxing which supports the welfare of our society, we must necessarily have the right to design it. I said this in my question: Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Araba can decide on 95% of their direct taxes, but only on 5% of indirect taxes. They have autonomy and decision-making capacity over 50% of what they collect. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is a barrier to the development of a tax system that is a basis for an advanced welfare state. And, therefore, and bearing in mind that already in 2012 the general meetings of Bizkaia, Araba and Gipuzkoa were clearly opposed to the increase in VAT decreed by the Government of Madrid, we advocate that this Parliament urge the Government to demand all competences, full competences on VAT and excise duties. To provide a true welfare for the basis of our system we apply the measures of building the tax system from the EH collect to-day on the table, because the limits of the established tax system have been uncovered: does not collect what is required, does not complete its redistributor function, does not guarantee progress. So what we propose here today is a strong advance to make a complete state of well-being which our society needs and deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u17	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Madam Counsellor, Mr Lehendakari. What EH Bildu says and proposes with his initiative is basically the following: as a result of the insufficient resources, as a result of the decrease in the collection in Euskadi, or, better said and more specifically, as a result of the increase in the collection below what is expected during 2015, what needs to be done, what the outlaws and all the Basque institutions have to do is increase the taxes. And this seems to us to be a simple and simplistic proposal, in addition to being inconcrete. If we read exactly what is proposed, it is clear that EH Bildu proposes not only a simple and simplistic proposal, but also increta. It tells us that all problems are solved by increasing taxes. However, it obviouss other budgetary or economic measures that the different Basque institutions can take to not only maintain the welfare state, but to strengthen it in what I believe is fundamental in this matter and at the moment: to create decent, stable and quality employment and to make it possible for Euskadi to grow, to create wealth, in short, so that companies also generate more profits and, as a result, pay more taxes. The truth is that at the end of 2013 – everyone knows it – the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party reached an agreement on what had to be done in relation to taxes and reached an agreement on taxation, an agreement that was also joined by the People's Party. We have been calling for fiscal reform for several years and we have fought for many years too so that a series of measures can be put in place to fight fiscal fraud more and better. The truth is that the reform agreed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, to which the People's Party subsequently joined, contained elements that seemed interesting to us. And as a result, in that monographic debate on taxation at the end of 2013, we supported quite a few of those proposals that were raised in that agreement. We also said that they were proposals that were in the right direction, but that they were insufficient, and today we come to propose basically the same. Today, there is still more than enough scope to implement fiscal measures to make it possible for Euskadi to have a progressive, progressive and fair fiscal policy. And there is also room for manoeuvre so that new, more forceful measures can be implemented to combat tax fraud. Therefore, despite the recent fiscal reform, the fact remains that there is still room for manoeuvre to improve this taxation, both with regard to taxes and with regard to the fight against tax fraud. Some of these outstanding measures have, in fact, been defended even after that agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party and the People's Party. However, it is true that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi have this matter closed; I believe that the fact that they have not tabled any amendments also proves this. And the People's Party wants to open it, but only to go in the opposite direction, that is, to lower taxes. And the government, and Mr Gatzagaetxebarria, as was perfectly clear in that inquiry, has this matter closed, is not on the agenda and does not want to talk about it at all. Furthermore, we have also defended the idea that it is this Parliament that decides on taxation. It is a proposal that we have defended for years and that we will continue to defend in the future, either through the indispensable constitutional reform, through the reform of the Statute of Gernika, or through the reform of the Law of Historical Territories, which we will soon discuss, or through the reform of the Law of Economic Concert. But we wanted to focus with our amendment on what we think can be done now. And I am saying that what EH Bildu has put forward is a simple, simplistic proposal, which remains only with regard to taxation and which is also inconcrete, because it only comes to say that we have to increase taxes, but it does not say exactly what taxes. And it also points to something that we consider to be absolutely false. It is pointed out that a tax reform would produce great goods for Euskadi and all problems would be solved with it, and yet it is left in the whole of matters of extraordinary relevance. That is why our amendment. What have we wanted to reflect in our amendment? What the various Basque institutions (outside parliaments and the Basque Government) can and should do to not only maintain the welfare state. In this sense, let us say that EH Bildu's proposal is unambitious: it speaks of maintaining the welfare state. We believe that not only the welfare state should be maintained, but that it should be strengthened, given the cuts that have taken place in recent years and the threat of further cuts in the short term. Yesterday the meeting of the Basque Finance Council was held, where it is confirmed that the collection for the financial year 2015 does not reach what had been budgeted, and therefore it is possible that cuts can occur, or at least that threat exists. And what we come to say is that things can be done so that there are no cuts in the short or medium term. And not only so that there are no cuts in the short or medium term, but also so that the welfare state is strengthened. And that is what we wanted to gather in our amendment. A new tax reform or measures to combat fraud are certainly necessary measures, but they are clearly insufficient measures. That is why I was talking about the simplistic analysis carried out by EH Bildu and the simple and inconcrete proposal he raises. More can be done and hence our amendment. What we are proposing is to urge the outside parliaments and the Basque Government to facilitate economic growth and the creation of decent and quality wealth and jobs, to strengthen the welfare state, to defend social justice and to address inequalities and the social gap, through, of course, all the necessary political, fiscal and budgetary measures. And I think it would be very good if today, one day after the meeting of the Basque Finance Council, taking into account the data we have, this Parliament would urge the Members of Parliament and the Government to this which we put forward in our amendment. The objective, which we sometimes forget, must be to create wealth; the objective must be to facilitate economic growth. It is not enough to redistribute the wealth we have, but it is also about creating wealth, helping our businesses, putting the limbs so that they can be strengthened and improve their results and thus pay more taxes. It's about collecting more. It is about creating stable, decent and quality jobs. It is about prioritizing productive investments. This means ultimately strengthening the welfare state and devoting more to health, more to education, more to social spending; making social justice possible and addressing the growing inequality and social divide and poverty suffered by thousands of Basque citizens. But all these problems are not solved only by tax reform, all these problems are not solved by a further increase in taxes. There are other alternatives to the generic tax increase, and it is unconcrete on the other hand, which EH Bildu poses. Indeed, having powers, Mrs Pinedo, does not mean that whoever has those powers will develop a good fiscal policy, which is part of your speech. Therefore, what we are proposing is all this which is reflected in this amendment. We believe that superfluous costs can be reduced. We believe that the institutional framework should be reformed, the duplication of which, according to a study by the previous Government, costs us more than EUR 400 million. We believe that the public corporate sector can be reformed and modernised. We think that there is still a lot of unnecessary spending that continues to exist. We think that there are items that can be reviewed: we allocate more than EUR 100 million to the EITB, we allocate more than EUR 100 million to linguistic policy, we still carry out today works that are not necessary, etc. This is all what needs to be changed. All this is what we believe should be done in the coming months. EH Bildu believes that a new tax reform is essential. There may be a need for further tax reform, but, of course, many other things can be done, which are what we have tried to pick up in our amendment. Other budgetary, political and economic measures must therefore be taken to facilitate the growth of Euskadi. It is not only about redistributing wealth, but about creating wealth. That is the way, we think, necessary for Euskadi, and there both this government and the outside parliaments have much to say and do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u18	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over the uncorrected teams, Mr. Damborena, representing the Basque Potion Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u19	Thank you very much, Madam President. I do not think anyone will be surprised if we announce our vote against the initiative that has been put forward and that has been raised. I just want to say that we do not join the PNV-PSOE reform. We modified that reform to lower the tax increase that was expected for lower incomes. I say this by commenting and making it clear, because generalities, as such, can give rise to misunderstandings. I believe that talking about the need for fiscal reform based on social justice, with more progressive, at this time of the 21st century, 2015... It's even provided for in the 78th Constitution, isn't it? It is clear that we have a tax system in which the highest payers, the lowest payers and even the lowest payers pay nothing. And the problem that is being raised, which is real, is the problem of the lack of income of the administrations, of all the administrations. It is not because of the tax system; it is because of the economic crisis, unemployment, unemployment and the closure of businesses. And that companies don't make money, and when you don't make money, you don't pay taxes. But we all know that a long time ago. And what EH Bildu is proposing today is that taxes should be raised. And he quotes us as global equivalent pressure... I think that as a paradigm of all you have put me Norway: where you press the most and where you collect the most... I remember that in Norway a zurito, about five years ago, cost eight euros. So, when we are talking here about indirect taxes and what is being taxed and what is not taxed and the tax pressure, we need to talk about what taxes are increasing that tax pressure. And in this case, as far as I remember, they were the indirect ones. It was VAT, alcohol tax... Those were the taxes that increase that tax burden. And when Bildu proposes to us, from what I understand, to collect more and raise taxes, it seems that at the third point what he says is that he wants to lower VAT. One no longer understands anything, because it is the only tax that today is giving higher income. There's one thing to say, too. This is because the tax system that we have does not serve to guarantee the state of social welfare, when, despite the fact that according to the Basque Finance Council this year's income forecasts are lower than expected, it is going to raise 4% more and next year it is expected to raise a five and peak percent more (in two years 10% more)... And that's at the expense of citizens' pockets. That is to say, the Basque administrations in two years are going to have 10% more revenue and the citizens are going to have 10% less in their pocket. Because that's how this works. Tax money comes out of the pockets of citizens; obviously, of those who earn the most, because that is the system we have. And it's not raising taxes like you create wealth or employment. And that's proven in many places. Moreover, by raising taxes, sometimes you collect less. I remember what happened to the sicavs in the Basque Country, and it was not an idea of Bildu; it was an idea of the Basque Nationalist Party to raise the sicavs, because it was little collected. And the following year we gathered zero; they all went to another place, and we gathered zero. That's right, we have a tax that charges them a lot, a lot more than the rest. Collection? Zero. It's not raising taxes even as you collect more. More is being done by creating employment and by making fiscal policies aimed at creating stable, future jobs. And therefore, several of the changes we made in that corporate tax reform were to help companies create stable jobs. Another thing is whether they do it or not. And while the economy rises, despite the fact that it consumes more and collects more for VAT, the collection of the IRPF does not rise, it is clear that citizens are not benefiting from this improvement of the economy. And that is why we are asking: since more is being collected, we are going to give back to the citizens part of that. What's more, why don't we do what is being done elsewhere, which is lower taxes, lower the IRPF? Because if you're collecting more and the citizens don't win more, here you only win the administrations, and we understand that the administrations are at the service of the citizens. And that is why I say to you, and I repeat that we do not agree with your proposal, that our proposal is precisely the opposite. We understand that to create wealth, to collect more what needs to be done is that citizens can have more money, which are ultimately the ones that create taxes, businesses. And the more people working there with decent and stable jobs, the more they will be raised, as has happened other times. And we, in this Autonomous Community, are now getting short and we are going to tow. In Spain, taxes had to be raised with the crisis, yes, but as soon as possible, they are lowered. For what? To foster that job creation and that movement of the economy, which in the end is what will give more income and what is giving more income. And in this Autonomous Community, where are we failing? In job creation. We even have a counselor who points out that with retirements, we're going to end unemployment. Well, it's a system and a formula. It does not seem to us the right or the most appropriate as a country and as a future that we want for this country, we do not agree with that. What we think is that we must encourage creation – before Mr. Maneiro said – of wealth, because without wealth there is no wealth to distribute. That's obvious. But what needs to be done is to encourage job creation, and not by raising taxes, as is done. And we all know that, even you know that. And don't tell me about the wealth tax that exists only in Gipuzkoa, because the property tax, you call it what you call it, exists in the three provinces. And the other thing is that in Gipuzkoa it precisely taxes job creation, which I say will not help much to that job creation that I suppose we are all looking for. Because when we talk about the welfare state, I guess we're all talking about everyone wanting to work with decent, stable jobs and get zero unemployment. I say that's everyone's purpose. Of course, it is ours and that is why we are going to vote against your initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u20	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u21	President, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that the main virtue of Mrs Pinedo's initiative, this motion, is the time when she has presented it, the time when it is going to be discussed, much more than the content. And I say this because in politics it often happens that the paths cross and that when one has an intention, others appear on the scene. And this is what has happened in the last 48 hours in Basque politics. When you presented this initiative, you were supposed to want to make a different, higher, more pressured tax, accompanying the European average, wanting to raise that tax pressure by five points within two years. But, curiously, at this time, since you have taken this initiative, the Basque Government has announced a number of things to us. First, his spokesperson 24 hours ago tells us that in 2015, in the current year, the resources that were planned for budgetary expenditure will not be produced. He also tells us he's going to see adjustments and cuts. And yesterday the Basque Finance Council was held in a climate in which the question was to check whether those statements by the Basque Government spokesman were based on the data to be provided by the three parliaments. Indeed, in a certain way this was the case – and then I will explain why in a certain way – since what the Basque Finance Council came to say yesterday is that in 2015, and according to the collection forecasts, Álava will more or less comply with the forecast, Gipuzkoa will fulfill (that is, that Álava and Gipuzkoa will be on the path of growth that through the tax reform was applied to the revenues of the budgets) and that, however, Bizkaia has a hole of 213 million euros. Yesterday the finance adviser, Mr Gatzagaetxebarria, also came out, saying something very curious first, which I would like the government to explain in more detail, and that is that 213 million does not stop being a tip, something like calderilla, is of no greater importance. He also corrected the Government spokesman, Mr Erkoreka, and said that no adjustments would be required and no cuts would be required. And it also throws another pearl, which the Government will also have to explain, and it now seems that budget failure has become a merit. It comes to the point that it does not matter for those 213 million less, because we will ensure that the budget that this Parliament has approved is a budget that is not fully implemented; it is therefore not necessary to have those 213 million euros. It seems to me that all of this is a political approach to an extraordinary misconception, and that is why it was said that it is the right time to discuss taxation, although in a different sense than that proposed to us by EH Bildu's spokesman. As things stand, I would like to recall that with the socialist impulse, with the socialist tesón, with the socialist machaconeria, defeating resistance from all, and especially from the Basque Nationalist Party, a fiscal reform took place in 2013. A tax reform that allowed for four things: for the maintenance and guarantee of public services, for fiscal co-responsibility and the fight against tax fraud, for income-based contribution and to avoid tax evasion and to contribute more to higher incomes. In other words, the fiscal reform of 2013 has four objectives that are perfectly valid in order to be able to make a policy of care in public services, in social policies and in promoting the economy in the Basque Country, because it gives all the instruments for this to be done. I would like to recall that 32 resolutions were adopted in that plenary session of fiscal policy and that within those 32 resolutions there are still areas that could be improved and others that could almost be put into operation. Because it is true that those political resistances to that full of policy to make that tax reform, then have somehow, albeit with another intensity, moved to the outside parliaments themselves, which have to implement fiscal policy, although it is also true that the Government has some powers. For example, we, in those resolutions that we proposed and that were finally adopted with different consensus in this House, talk about fiscal harmonisation – and there is a resolution on this – and about interinstitutional collaboration – and there is a resolution on this – and about setting evaluable targets in the fight against tax fraud, in which we have then insisted and whose assessment has been resisted by the whole world, including EH Bildu. The Gipuzkoa Treasury refused to establish a tax collection criterion, when in other tax agencies it is done, and for many years, among others, at the Spanish Tax Agency. We also plan through those resolutions that will be acted on in labor income, in capital income, in deductions, in corporation tax, in capital transfers, in new rates... That is, it was a very complete tax reform, which in addition – it was approved in 2013 – had 2014 to be well designed, to be put into operation, to make all the forecasts they wanted; and 2015, obviously, it was the year in which the results had to be offered. Based on that tax reform, this government proposed that by 2015 it would grow by 2.5%, that there would be 14,000 more jobs, and even these forecasts were revised upwards in mid-2015. And there is a position expressed by the Public Finance Advisor, in which he said that it was going to grow more. Even very recently – that's why the curious thing about the last 48 hours – again insisted that the 2015 targets should not be reviewed. Here is an important question, which is: listen, you are not going to implement the budget, you are not going to have all the resources that you had planned, and yet this does not affect at all the economic and employment objectives that the Government has, so to see if in the end the budget is going to be useless, it is not going to be necessary to meet economic objectives and to meet employment objectives. I could tell you how many things could be done in job creation with EUR 213 million. Jobs and jobs could be created with EUR 213 million in circulation and spent on employment policies. Therefore, we are faced with a situation in which I believe that the lehendakari has to give some explanation as responsible for a government in which one day the spokesman says one thing, the other day the Finance Minister says another thing, but in the middle of what appears is a hole that no one has explained and that it seems that yesterday passed without pain or glory by the Basque Finance Council. We're in that situation. There are two farms that comply, there is a farm that bites, there is a farm that doesn't get that 213 million and we don't know why, we don't know how that affects income tax, how it affects corporate tax, how it affects the most important taxes in amount. And that is why we want to remember a few more things, and, fundamentally, what our objectives are. The Socialist Party's objectives since the beginning of this legislature were three. The first is to stop this government which wanted to make brutal cuts through budgets in health, in education, in social policies, in employment policies. The second, encouraging more resources because, aware of the economic crisis, we needed a different fiscal policy. That was our second goal. And our third objective was to make a political commitment, on which we have met a political objective, which was based on budgets in 2014, budgets in 2015; a political agreement on employment policies and the guarantee of public services and social policies, and that is precisely what is at risk right now. Therefore, the lehendakari must give an answer, he must give his face, he must speak with his Government, and not let one Member say one thing; another, another; another, which in the end are also governed by the Basque Nationalist Party. One government councillor says one thing, another councillor says another, and here the key is where those 213 million are; why has the Bizkaia Parliament been pinned, whether it is true that it has pinned or not, or whether it is a strategy for the final collection to be higher, to be different, and let us enter into a budgetary policy path for the year 2016 in this Parliament, even in the outside parliaments themselves, on which we can go down or try to go down. We are not going to participate or admit any cuts in education, health, social, employment, investment, research, etc. This has been the policy that has defined the socialist commitment to the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government so that citizens of the Basque Country have better policies in 2015...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u22	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u23	I'm done right now. And, therefore, before this the lehendakari is set to give an explanation of what is happening in the parliaments, what is happening in the Government, because this situation is not reception.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u24	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, chief physician. Good morning, everyone. The eubertarians will vote against the motion which the EH Collect has proposed for discussion. And he will refuse the contrary because we are opposed to the political axiom of the patriotic left, which is the origin of the enterprise. Euskadin's model of eucaed euccadion is the model of patient human development, and especially of persons with the greatest necessities. And our question is, what is the human model of the EH Collection? It's popular, but we don't know what EH Collect is doing. If we consider it in accordance with the data given by Mrs. Pinedo and that, we may assume that the model of EH Collectors (for example, you have given some data based on the compositions of Exodia, France, Norues, and certain particular facts, and data as a whole), is the model of EGGG, as France, Germany, or Norue. We don't know because we don't know him. Or maybe we could think that the model of EH Collect will be based on the Norue pension system. Data must not be given in a specific way. It is necessary, in the whole, to examine what are the revenues and the expense of money. We hardly agree with this assertion of EH Collectation, when you say it's a model that will allow social cracks. Not at all, we won't protect him at all. It's a huge effort to help people with the most serious problems, services, and helps from the Eucomunics and other public institutions, in the critical situation we're in. And we don't accept it because the facts confirm it that way. Your initiative mentions social crack, and the index Gina, which, as we know, measures the division of the rent... Yes, Mrs. Pinedo, of course, because they are official data, because it's a particular index that measures the distribution of wealth and smoking in society, and that index makes it a second in the European Union. Then what you can't do is what you're doing, say it encourages social cracks when it means the opposite. The President spoke plainly of the discussion of general politics: "One of the essential elements of this business is to help to guarantee social shock. We confirm that the priority of society is to be secured by the policy of society." The current Basque model is by no means a model that fosters the social divide, as the Gini index indicates: second in the European Union, after Sweden. And not doing what you do: providing data in a biased way, which leads us to think that the model that Bildu is promoting, given the total ignorance of what his social model is, is based on the health co-payment of Germany, France or Norway or on the Norwegian pension system. You have not said that it is based on that; you have given it is the data of what is spent, without speaking as a whole about what the system is in its entirety. We accepted the form of taxation based on social justice in this Chamber two years ago in 2013. Then the change of tax system was based on human justice. We wanted to push the more direct, more progressive, more efficient tax system, and that's what we've done. To all the citizens, and above all to those who have the greatest wants, he secured the endurance of the public policy and the welfare system, and encouraged the economic activity which would produce employment. This is our human model, this is our economic model, which is the pattern of the protection of the majority of society. We've fought a lot to get this pattern, and we'll still be like this again. In Mrs. Pindo's interpelation with the chief physician, he asked: What is the priority, society or deficit? And our answer is, that we must unite them both, that it is necessary to unite them, that we should acquire a tolerable pattern. Otherwise, instead of repairing problems, we're going to postpone it, don't fix it. That's our model. In any case, as we often say in different matters, we are not shut up to any discussion at all. It is true that we sought stability when we did this form of taxation, because society requires economic instability, because stability is a value, because we cannot always discuss the same things and change things. The reform, which we agreed to in 2013, came into 2014 and now we have the first data. But the data has to be studied. Well, we must consider them deeply, seriously, with severity. And once we've examined it, we'll have to draw conclusions and make decisions. Our parliamentary group is not closed to anything, but we believe that the data that we now have must be thoroughly analysed, which takes its time. We must not rush into making decisions and proposing changes without having reflected them deeply. Decisions, if any, should be based on rigorous and comprehensive analysis of the available information. The actions of public administrations, as we have said, must be based on responsibility and rigour, and must flee from demagogic discourses, both when it is proposed to rise and when it is proposed to lower taxes with electoral interests. If it's necessary to make adjustments on the strong tax system, we'll do it, but if we've done what we're told to do, we'll make sure that after we've done a thorough investigation of the data, we'll have the right decisions made. Mr Price... You've mentioned Biscay data over and over again, it has to be said that he's taken over 200 million less, but we have to consider that the funding will be 6665 million. Bizkaia meets its collection expectations by 97 % and is going to improve the previous year's collection by 2,8 %. Bizkaia's collection is going to be 6,665 million, meeting the collection forecasts by 97%. It also referred to the lack of implementation of the budget. You all know, all those people who have been in different areas of public administration, that the ordinary budgetary dynamics make the budget not run by 100%. And that does not lead to an intentional will, there is no intention of not implementing the budget, but the ordinary budgetary dynamics make budget implementation, annually and in the various municipalities, municipalities, parliaments and governments, not 100%. Not that there is a will or intention not to execute.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u26	Go to the end, Mrs. Gorospe.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u27	The government, he says, will have to say what it will do with that money that is not there. One thing: in the years 2007 and 2008, in which the situation was not that of now, the budgetary failure was more than 3%, because of this ordinary budgetary dynamic, not because of the need to adjust the budget, and, of course, it is much more than is going to be needed in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u29	Thank you. Nothing new under the sun one more day. Mr. Maneiro, if you don't want to meet me on the way, you can have more imaginative arguments. Let us take a look, Mr Maneiro, at your proposal: "The Basque Parliament urges the outside parliaments and the Basque Government to facilitate economic growth, to create wealth and decent employment, to strengthen the welfare state, to defend social justice and to address inequalities and the social gap through political, fiscal and budgetary measures". And he missed asking "and peace in the world." Because if this is concretion, you yourself. You haven't said anything we couldn't have subscribed to anyone in general. We went to much more specific issues. That we left it open? Sure! Mr Maneiro, we left it open because we are aware that these issues need to be addressed, and we set a path. And you say again that we believe that all problems will be solved by increasing taxes. I didn't say that once. Not one! I have come here today to talk about tax policies, right, but other colleagues of mine are talking at other times about other public policies that this government has to do to improve the welfare state on other issues: health, employment policies, etc., including the enrichment of the industrial fabric or other measures. I've come to talk about tax policies. I have not said that they are the panacea or that they are the solution, nor that they are the magic powders. No, Mr. Maneiro. I said that it is the basis of a good state of well-being and from there we produce wealth and have a state of modern well-being and what we believe it should be. But I didn't say what you mentioned. That there is room for fiscal measures to be implemented? Sure! That's what I'm saying! But let's get to it. Let's go to it, because we're not coming, we're not going. Mr. Damborenea, you know very well that you and I... We take it with philosophy, but you and I will never agree. You know it, and I know it. That's a well-known thing. For you, the solution is to lower taxes, because, according to you, there is more money in citizens' pockets; then, that there are queues in hospitals, children do not have schools... That's another matter. With the 30 or 40 more euritos in the wallet, or the 100 euros at most, the lack of a good state of well-being is not going to be solved, which is what people demand from all politicians. It's just that he's said so many things in which you know we're never going to be able to come to an understanding... That we already have a tax system that pays the most the most. Our proposal says that we will go deeper into those issues in which it has not deepened: in wealth, in unproductive capital... You know as well as I do that companies don't pay what citizens pay in proportion, if you put them on a scale. They don't. And those who have the most, you know as well as I do, have multiple ways to not pay the taxes they should pay. Let us not talk about the exits and side doors of the company tax which is in force in the three territories of this Autonomous Community. So, there's a lot to do. Mr Prieto, I already know that you liked that I did not spend all my time; you have spent all yours and a little more, but only to settle your issues with the Basque Nationalist Party. Your questions about what you agreed on, what there is, what there is no longer. What they always come to do is to settle the agreements they have with the Basque Nationalist Party. Now the PSE is going to ask for more, because there is not much to do; about the welfare state, not a word. And the PNV, little more, always the same: zein den gure giza eredua, euren giza eredua badakigula... One thing is clear, that we have similar collection levels to those of 2008, with a much lower budget provision, and there are 127,000 more citizens in poverty. That more than 30% of the population at risk of poverty is outside the income system, that's a reality and it's there. Real poverty in Euskadi is 5.9%, when in 2008 it was 4.2%. That Gini's index puts us where it puts us? Yes, but you know, or should know, that Gini's index leads to progress that is not the right one, it is in the opposite direction to a good support of the welfare state; because Gini's index, too, Mrs Gorospe, must be taken as an isolated data. And with regard to what the priorities of this Government are, I am not the one who has done it; it is this Government that has done it. And it was the lehendakari that first put in his intervention was the deficit and third position the well-being of the citizenry. And, Mrs Gorospe, I too know what to do when you manage some budgets, and it is true that account must be taken of the deficit, I have no doubt, but that can never be the priority of some budgets; it is a tool, Mrs Gorospe, a tool. The priority is the welfare of society, and for that one has to worry about having healthy budgets; and to have healthy budgets, one has to worry about where the money comes from and bet once and for all for a real tax system, a tax system that really serves as a support for a real welfare state, and not a welfare state of circumstances...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u30	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u31	... a state of well-being to comply with the file, which is what you are bringing us to.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Myst. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u33	Thank you, President. Mrs Pinedo, you have not convinced anyone: neither those who want to raise taxes, nor those who want to keep them, nor those who want to lower them. And I have insisted that your proposal, as it was proposed, was very simplistic and was not at the root of the problems. What you have come to propose, basically, is: since we have insufficient resources and we have to maintain the welfare state, what has to be done is to promote a fiscal reform based on social justice. That sounds pretty like "peace in the world." A tax reform to ensure social justice and to pay more for those who have the most, and so on, this is what you have come to pose. But, beyond being inconcrete and incomplete, I think the analysis fails, because what comes to you is: since we have insufficient resources, what needs to be done is to raise taxes. Who's to be taxed? How much do we have to raise taxes? To whom exactly do we have to raise taxes? What taxes do we have to raise? And so on. That is what I have come to dispute with my amendment. Group amendments are usually more generic than the original initiative, although in this case not even that. In other words, anyone presenting a specific initiative must try to make it as complete as possible, as coherent and as accurate as possible. And I think that's what you've clearly failed with your proposal, because I'm saying you haven't convinced anyone. I believe that Mr Prieto has said something interesting and a flagrant inaccuracy. On the one hand, it is interesting what Mr Prieto has pointed out in connection with the lack of implementation of the budget; it seems to me to be a very interesting subject. Yesterday we knew that this government will have, if I am not mistaken, EUR 145 million less by 2015, and indeed it has to be the Basque government and it has to be Mr Gatzagaetxebarria who explains in this House what he is going to do, where he is going to cut, which items will be affected by this decrease in income. And we are going to ask the Finance Advisor or Lehendakari himself to explain this to us. What cannot be done is that there is a budgetary failure and you, Mrs Gorospe, come and tell us here that this is usual, or that the same has happened in previous governments. Beyond the fact that there has been or is going to be a budgetary failure because the budgets have gone wrong in terms of revenue, what the Government has to do is to explain what is going to happen and what influence this reduction of EUR 145 million will have on the revenue obtained. And this is what you have to explain in the next full of control the lehendakari or the councilman Gatzagaetxebarria. It's 145 million euros. Where's it going to be cut? What's going to stop running? What's he gonna stop doing? Is it going to be cut off in education? Is it going to be cut in health? Are you going to abolish the customer games which you have agreed with the Socialist Group and which benefited certain municipalities of the Socialist Party? Will it affect certain productive investments? This is what an explanation deserves, because this is a very serious matter. On the one hand, that the budgets are badly prepared, that it is not correct with regard to the collection (beyond that it has increased, it has increased below what was supposed). And, of course, the issue of budget failure: the fact that this is happening and the government's lack of clarification, but Mr Gatzagaetxebarria will have to give it in the next full monitoring session. On the other hand, and in relation also to Mr Prieto, he said that thanks to the socialist machaconeria and overcoming the resistance of all, a tax reform was possible. Mr. Prieto, you know this is inaccurate, this is not so. We have been advocating a tax reform since 2009, the year 2010. We asked and questioned lehendakari López, put forward concrete proposals, defended measures to combat tax fraud, and on countless occasions called for the implementation of a joint plan to combat tax fraud. And Mr Lehendakari came to say continuously and permanently that no, that such tax reform was not necessary. Therefore, "machaconía and defeating the resistances of all", the case of UPyD, which for many years was found in this House in absolute solitude defending this tax reform. Finally, I believe that the UPyD amendment is perfectly acceptable to all groups. And since the initiative of EH Bildu is to be rejected, I call on the groups to vote in favour of our amendment. Mrs Gorospe said that it is about analysing the data we have, reflecting and making decisions. I believe that it is unquestionable that the different Basque institutions, and in particular the Basque Government, have to do things, such as facilitating economic growth and creating wealth, decent employment and quality. They must strengthen the welfare State, they must defend social justice and take all necessary political, economic, budgetary and fiscal measures to ensure those objectives.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u34	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u35	It is a perfectly reasonable amendment. It would be very good for the groups in this House to urge the Government to try to comply with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u36	Thank you. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. It would also sometimes be desirable for us to agree on what some terms mean, such as the tax harmonisation that has been mentioned here. If fiscal harmonisation means fiscal uniformity and everyone has to have exactly the same tax, what we are talking about is that we are dealing with the Economic Concert. If by fiscal harmonization one has to understand that you have to have exactly the same taxes as with whom you are harmonized, one wonders whether that interpretation is what some political group has here. The Basque Nationalist Party tells us about budget failure. We had a question here 15 days ago to the Health Councilman about why on 31 August the provision for investments in the planned hospitals was zero, and the Councilman told us from this rostrum to see what data we were handling. Those who sent us by the Government, those who sent us by the Government. So, when we talk about non-execution, are we talking about game cancellation or are we talking about postponements to the next exercise? This is a nuance that we would be interested to know, because it is not the same thing to cancel items for 140 million euros because they are not executed or they are not to be executed or it is decided not to execute than to postpone the payment and the expenditure for the following year, which is obvious that it will be from income of the following year. That's why it's not the same. And that is why, when we talk here about that with non-performance we already fix everything, we will have to see what that non-execution consists of. And there are some Bildu phrases that I don't understand. What will it have to do with citizens having more money in their pockets to close hospitals? What's that got to do with anything? If you know it's not like that! You tell me, "Companies pay less than citizens." As if the companies were something ethereal! Behind the companies there are citizens, who are the shareholders. Companies, when they have a profit, pay corporation tax. What's left, that benefit, is given to those natural persons, which are physical shareholders. In the end, there is always a natural person who charges what is called the dividend, and that takes him to the IRPF. Therefore, the income generated by the entry companies is subject to these two: the IRPF always, in the end, and in the middle, to corporate tax. That's right. So, this business pays less... They don't pay anymore, they don't pay less. The companies, in the end, do not pay; they pay the citizens, in that case the shareholders. Let's see if we can focus a little bit on how this works. And you tell me we'll never agree. It is very possible that we will never agree on the method, I suppose in the end yes. You said that Mr. Maneiro's proposal only lacked to say "and peace in the world". It's true. I mean, I don't know if there is anyone who might disagree with what Mr Maneiro has proposed; I suppose no one in this House. But, of course, that's not the point. The issue is how best and first to that end. And that is where we disagree, because what you propose is precisely the opposite, that we never get to that. We have always said that the best fiscal and social policy is employment. And we understand that fiscal policy, in addition to raising enough revenue for administrations, must be directed towards creating jobs and wealth. As a fiscal and social policy. And, therefore, I do not think I will announce anything new: as I do not know what method Mr Maneiro is proposing to achieve this, we shall abstain on his initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u38	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mr Price, Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u39	Yes, President. Several things. To Mr Maneiro, the first, just to clarify something which you can also see in the minutes of the sitting. In the government of the lehendakari Patxi López, in the general policy debates every year, tax reform was proposed, a reform that never found sufficient support to bring it, and it was changing circumstances that later, in the current legislature, made it possible for this to be addressed. Therefore, you have to correct your memory a little bit, if it is just a memory problem, if there is no evil in the statement, because we were dealing with this matter with a machaconeria that finally saw the light in 2013, although it was a tax reform attended by all the groups of the House. One thing is what the Basque Government expects not to enter this year, which is around 145 million, as has been said, and another thing is what it already carries without collecting the Bizkaia Foral Diputation, and the Bizkaia Foral Diputation exceeds the 200 million less collected. Therefore, as we are still faced with figures that we do not know if they will be completed when the exercise is over in one direction or another, I have already made an alert. Then, Mr Damborenea has also pointed out some idea in relation to that same alert: it is not the same thing not to collect than to collect later. This is not the first time that this tax trifle has been made, it is not the first time it has been raised, and, in particular, in Bizkaia certain companies have been given the direction to postpone payments so that the collection is done in another way and the budgets as well. These things are on the table; they have been on the table and are back on the table. And that is why it would be important for the lehendakari to explain to us what is happening in the government, what is happening in the parliaments, what is happening with the collection, since what his advisers tell us is contradictory only within 24 hours. With regard to Mrs Pinedo, I just want to say that the tax reform that began in 2013 still has a lot of room. It has scope, among other things, as I mentioned earlier, because, for example, in the fight against tax fraud we wanted to make an assessment and propose collection objectives and it has not been possible; among other things, because Bildu refused, but also refused the People's Party and also refused the Basque Nationalist Party. None of the three Members, when we raised this last year, wanted to get into that issue. They said that it was impossible to make these collection forecasts, when the reality with the Spanish Tax Agency since 2007 shows that the objectives are evaluable and that then, in addition, account is taken of those objectives. In addition, fiscal reform has a lot of scope. Therefore, if, with the 2013 tax reform at the moment, we are encountering problems, a tax reform upwards (five more points), when the collection with the current one is not working, it seems a rather absurd approach. But what seems to me to be completely absurd is to have the Government do it, which is what puts it at the first point of its motion. I would not charge the current government with progressive tax reform, inter alia, because it does not want such tax reform. This type of tax reform, in any case, can be done by progressive political formations, those that place more emphasis on public services, on social policies, on wage economies, rather than those that put it in the income of capital, for example. You say, "Let them do it to me and let the Basque Government and the deputies propose it to me." I do not charge that to the Basque Government and to the deputies or to the full of Coca-Cola. Tax reform, as the Socialists have proposed for many years and finally in 2013, was proposing tax figures, proposing different types, proposing a certain way of combating tax fraud, the treatment of deductions in another way. Anyway, everyone has to do their homework and not take care of others. And finally, Mrs Gorospe, we are responsible for a policy of institutional stability in this country from a position, in the case of the Basque Country, of opposition so that the citizenry, which is our goal and it is to whom we serve, has public policies, social policies, etc. If you tell me that you're going to collect less, that you're not going to execute the budget, then you can explain how you want it, but I need to know how it's going to affect health, if it's going to affect education, if it's going to affect research, if it's going to affect employment, because I have a political commitment. And a political commitment that I have made to you and that I do, and now I want you to do it. And I'm doing it, but you're announcing that you're not gonna do it. And that is precisely why our party's deep concern, which, among other things, has caused our secretary general to ask the lehendakari...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u40	You have to finish it, Mr Pricee.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u41	...an urgent interview. Because, in fact, this cannot go through the media as if it were an anecdote more or a detail more than every day of politics, but as something very important that affects the policy that is being done in this Parliament, which your Government is doing, that affects our commitment and affects our citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u42	Thank you, Mr Price. Finally, Eucariats. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u43	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mrs. Pinedo, you said "Nada nuevo bajo el sole," and we always say: we are consistent, and stability is a value for us. Then I don't know if you think we've come here every time we come here with a different account. We're rockets and stability is a value for us. We are always going to handle with Sharpness, we always say; we will study the data deeply, we always say, and we are always ready to make the necessary adaptations. Lehendakariak politica orokorreko plenuman esandakoa aipatu izan duzu, eta lehen euskaraz irakurri had, eta ore, gastelaniaz. Lehendakariak argi eta garbi, behin eta berriro said: "Our north is a human development and inclusive strategy that places commitment to people on the frontline of government action." And he added that health, education and social policies are the highlights of our human model. Argi's a goner. You have mentioned the change of the wealth of Gipulia, and it is well to know why this change has been made. And that change has been made because the removal of obstacles on the members of the corporation will encourage the projects. And corporations seek to recover because they are employments and rich men, who maintain social employments and wealth in the welfare of the whole society, and public services offered by public institutions. It's with that purpose that this change has been made. And it's good to put the data in proportion to the collection as it is. The collection of real money was a $4,60 million, a little more than that. And why wealth came in 2014 to 65 million, and in 2015 66 million (more than the pre-star6). So that the tax should be paid in general. Consider all the data, as I said before. Maneiro eta Damborenea jaunak, you referred to the non-execution and I again give you the data I have given you before. Both approaches. One, non-execution is common in the ordinary budgetary dynamics of all public administrations. There are no administrations that execute 100%. Many are at 98%, 99, 97... I have given them the 2007 budget failure data, 2008, which was around 3%, and of course they will not think that I was willing to make adjustments, at all, but that it is the ordinary dynamic. There are multiple items in a budget and you know perfectly well – another thing is that political dialectics and political confrontation lead you to accentuate another approach, another approach – you know perfectly well that this is commonplace in many public administrations. And you also know that the impact on the budget (in a budget of 10.6 billion, as is the budget of the Basque Government) of the amounts we are talking about is perfectly manageable. Mr Prieto said that there is no consistency in the information being provided to the extent that we say that there is growth in gross domestic product, that there are forecasts of employment generation, and yet the collection does not have the same behaviour. But you also know perfectly well that the generation of wealth, that the increase in gross domestic product, can be due to different reasons. It is not the same as export, which can generate employment but which does not have the same impact on collection as it can have, for example, if this increase comes from domestic consumption. You were talking about the commitment we have. Do not doubt in any case that the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Government led by the Lehendakari Urkullu, will comply with the commitments made, because we are absolutely convinced that the model we bet on, the model of sustainable human development, is the model and the way in which we have to follow in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for Mrs. Pindo Bustamante's original text. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 21; contraries, 52; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u45	Original text was not accepted as a result. We're going to vote for the full correction of Misto-UPyD next. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 1; contraries, 63; white, 0; abstaining, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u46	It is not therefore accepted to be the correction of the integer. Third point in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by the members of the EHGG of the Belsen Rockores, concerning the measures which are to be carefully attended to by long-continued labourers. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Arrido, it's your word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u47	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. On the 2nd of October, the head of the United States and of the Societys was interposed with regard to the state of long-term unemployed. As we explained there, the employment police hitherto have not managed to create a permanent and quality employment, much less to produce a position promised 32,000. The chief physician admitted that there are deficiencies, and asked for help to face this dramatic situation, which the proposal we are making today responds to. According to the data we know, the rate of unemployment is 16 percent, at least 156,000 people who are unemployed, of which, 830,000 people have been driven away for more than two years in unemployment. And, consequently, we are not mistaken when we say that the number of the labourers of long duration is enormous, and their situation is very serious. Moreover, the development of this is still more disturbing. In the day, people who have been without employment for more than two years are more than 12,000 people. In a year, the total number of long-term unemployed has increased 16 percent. Seven times more from 2008 are the ones who suffer this situation. This is reality. The data, without a doubt, expresses a painful situation, and shows no doubt a situation that is being chromed. But, as we often say, there are many people behind data and numbers, who are living the real drama, and it must be said that they are suffering the cruel state which these people have not created. And in front of this cruel reality, you can't have an attitude like fun. On the one hand, without taking any special measures, the positive valuation of the organized employment plans, as if nothing were going to happen without efficiency. In front of this disturbing situation, you have to go out of the state of paralysis that is now, you have to take measures and change your course. That's the way we propose it. Our proposal counts two points. In the first place, the GUKUY asks you to do it in two months' time, and show him a plan to take care of long-term unemployed. In this sphere of planning the detailed initiative will always be confirmed in the intermediary, orientation, and preparation, based on local development and the reality of the region. At this point, first, we wish to place the necessity of public politics on the table, if they will give proper answers to long-continued labourers. It's crucial, public policies are crucial to turn the situation around. This is a special plan, which we propose, based on common and common life-fields of men, on the basis of the region, on the wants and chances of the region, together with the local agents (as private and private as the republics), with development agencies, and with the necessities of the community, to guarantee permanent, general, and custom attention: a proper, motive, orientation, preparation, intervention and employment option. The occupation plans must also be placed within that logic. And, indeed, there must be a longer duration, and others a longer duration. In short, the furrows we spoke of before must be developed in the right way, which is not now done: Interaction. We need to put some resources in order to do the right thing. It can't be said that he won't arrive at 15% of the intermediary, although this legislature commands that. We need to set the resources. Good orientation. It means that it must be personal, permanent, motivesive, which are not now done. It's a effective preparation. What would really be worth after, in order to find a way out, in order to find a way out, in accordance with the needs of each region. We need to find specific jobs for them. They must be examined and created. It's a protected job. The social Klausulas must also be used for that, the market-cleaners... In the whole sector under the public stock, we must take measures which are useful to facilitate the access of these persons. Pricks. To promote the conditioned contract in companies, and worthy employments. And for this purpose, among other things, the profession must for once enter into its own business. And, on the other hand, you're gonna have to fill up the legal resolutions that you've never done before. And what we propose at our second point, to carry it forward, is to store a fund, a new fund, a new game. In our proposal, we propose to keep the fund of 40 million for new jobs, considering the criteria mentioned. I repeat, that public employment policies ought to be strengthened, and that we really believe in it, if we really wish to face the present situation, and the situation of these thousands of people. And to do that, you have to keep a match in your budgets. Today, 20 million local jobs are predictable in budgets. We believe that the moment has come to make another leap, to invest more, to do something different. And for that, in our proposal, we propose another amount, a 40 million fund. Without the dependence of Madrid, we propose that they respond to our reality and set up policies which will be effective. We've agreed to a middle course with the Social Party. Here are the first points which I have just referred to, which are the axes for us in this change of direction, which must be placed in the center of the region, in the brain, in order to begin the work in another way. And there's also a collection of money in the middle. It's not what we wanted, it's not the 40 million fund. There hasn't been a chance of agreeing to that, but we get what's important to us, and we'll be on top of it in the next few weeks and months. The proposition is that in 2016's budgets a new department of money must be reserved for this. If this were to be admitted here today, we should be on top of it. And the third point, which is received in the middle, is the correction introduced by the Social Party. It's important to us, too, because, after all, it's a long-term proposition that's based on the legislature, a suggestion that's not the end of our view, and that's about our proposal, because it's a path, as I've just mentioned, the most social clause to find a way out for long-term unemployed people. In the course of the proceedings introduced by the other groups, only EAJ has submitted the corrections, and, in fact, we do not understand it very well, it seems to us a mere proposition or imprudence. As we said to the Chief Toñan, how is it possible to ask him to continue doing what we've been doing, to fall into self-ference and paralysis? Even more than 830,000 people who lead over two years of unemployment and no experience. Isn't it time to do something? Are we gonna ask him to go on and do what he's done until now? Or is it another leap? There's something else to suggest. Doesn't this situation have to be in charge of the legislature? We see again, as we said before, despair and lack of efficiency in this proposition: let us remain the same, without doing anything; and though this condition be chronic, let us hope that thousands of people are in a wretched state, which we have never yet attained before, without making any new one. That's what we read behind your proposal, and we don't share it at all, we don't agree with that attitude. As I said before, we really believe that the time has come to make a leap around jobs, that we must take measures, and that these people, who are in danger of falling into poverty and social neglect, must open the means to provide other solutions, that they must expand. That's the way we're supposed to do it, see if we can get what we haven't done before. That's why we don't share our opinion as an E.J.'s proposition. And we don't even understand the attitude.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the team. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u49	Thank you, President. Third item on the agenda, on the measures necessary to adequately protect the long-term unemployed; one more of the many issues we are dealing with here. Two amendments. I do not know whether the non-amendants agreed with the initiative or are not in favour of it, or have nothing to say; in any case, they will be the last to speak, to have the last word. Today we dealt with this issue, two weeks ago we were dealing with job insecurity; other times, youth unemployment, the loss of purchasing power of wages. In fact, all these issues are part of a puzzle whose scenario has nothing to do with the concept of economy as a science that studies methods for the effective use and satisfaction of human material needs, because we see day by day, debate to debate, that there are entire groups that do not access these resources and that do not achieve an equitable sharing of that wealth. We would like to see agreements adopted here on these issues, that they were unanimous and that they marked a consensual, global position in the face of these phenomena, but, well, that is not the case. We call long-term unemployment and it does not cease to be a euphemism, because long-term unemployment, as Mrs Arrondo has said, is being chronised, is structural unemployment for all purposes. Two out of three workers who lose their jobs won't find him again. And, therefore, we understand that long-term unemployment – because there is not going to be a name that speaks of infinite duration unemployment – is a structural unemployment and constitutes a genuine social scourge, where long-term unemployment, already with that label, with that bell, is driving away any possibility of access to the world of work, or to the labour market, as is now said. And what to do? Active employment policies are often one of the answers to this, but active employment policies are like an unwanted child for this Government and for the party that supports it. Last week Mr Semper also reminded the nationalist bench how, after 30 years, we are the last autonomous community to receive this transfer. In spite of that, there is also a real game of distraction by the Basque Nationalist Party; in the end this transfer comes. But active employment policies are dead. I am not going to talk about them because it is not the subject of this particular debate, but we can talk about how we are now without orientation with the collaborating entities. Tomorrow we will again bring out another subject that is also loud with the special employment centres. But ultimately, the government will still do nothing. He is not going to do anything because I repeatedly hear him say, as an argument of authority, that he has great electoral support, that gives him institutional power, and that argument of authority, by itself, turns his policies definitely into good policies. And they also have the arrogance of sticking this generally to the most minority groups. Therefore, little of this can be expected, so that it is up to the opposition groups to push the initiatives, but with little expectation that the agreements can be fulfilled, if they succeed. And this leads us, I must say, to say that it is not adventurous to assume that if the Socialists had not passed through the government, we would certainly not have the transfer of active employment policies today. And why do we present our amendment, which refers to a parliamentary agreement which was also not complied with, which referred to developing the possibility of legislatively through a package of general administrative clauses...? In that case we were talking about inclusion and submission to collective agreements – I will also talk about it – but those general administrative clauses are the ones that can collect social clauses; social clauses where these disadvantaged collectives – today we talk about the long-term unemployed, but we could talk about other collectives – have room. Because social policies can also be applied in public procurement. So far, public procurement has only taken into account the purpose of the contract, but we must bear in mind that public procurement constitutes a very large percentage of gross domestic product, and therefore it is possible from it to respond to these groups. And when we invoke this agreement, it is not by attachment to our thesis, much less, but because we really believe that it constitutes an instrument (first of all legal, because we have competence in legislative development, which allows us to have an instrument) that it has no budgetary burden and that it gives the possibility that these groups will have a place in public procurement. And that agreement that talked about submitting to collective agreements, too, because it has a lot to do with it. The collective bargaining and the validity of the agreements have much to do with this which we are talking about, even if it seems that they are not related, because a reserve army, as the classics would say, such a large contingent of long-term unemployed are pushing down wages. It is therefore a further reason to vigorously and enthusiastically defend the negotiation and collective agreements in public procurement. We could not accept the amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party because it was of very few calories, frankly. And the compromise proposal, much less, Mrs Arregi, because it places it in the result of the presentation on the ILP of social clauses, when it has started its work without being solemnly declared whether or not we have the competence to legislate in this matter, which will end up being a disgrace to the image of this institution, because, being as a delicate issue, an important issue on which we put all the interest and all the dialectic force that we can, we understand that we are playing a bit with this issue. The debate seems interesting to us and we are going to participate in it with all interest, but the result of it is still somewhat diffuse. And, therefore, to make dependent on the results of that presentation, Mrs Arregi, seemed to us to throw the balls no longer out of the field, but out of the stadium. Therefore, we have reached an agreement on which, if I go out, I do not have much confidence that the Government will comply with it either, although, as is the case with our group, the opposition group, we will stress that these agreements are being complied with and carried forward. In the compromise we have reached with Euskal Herria Bildu we have omitted any mention of budgetary amounts, because it is known that my party has budgetary agreements with the Basque Nationalist Party and it seemed to us that it could distort those negotiations and agreements. In any case, it seems to us that, by nature, by the entity and by the importance of the problem, it must have a specific, concrete budgetary reflection, in order to know exactly what the Government's effort for this long-term unemployed group is worth. As I say, I do not have much confidence that, if the agreement is reached, it will be fulfilled, but we will push it forward. Because these and other measures that can be put forward and proposed are certainly not going to solve the problem of long-term unemployment, they are not going to solve it at all, but it is at least to be expected of a decent society that takes account of these groups and does everything possible, because in the work that can be generated from the administrations, from the public authorities, they are obliged to promote the conditions of equality and the sharing of material goods. From that possibility we say that the Government has to act, and we will be behind to push.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u50	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Eubertarians represent the team. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. On this point we will discuss the motion of long-term laboured interrogators, as you all have said. Actually, it's a disturbing situation, dramatic in Mrs. Ardo's words. To be idle is serious, and to be in long-lived unemployment is still more serious. I'm sure we all agree in this. He's taken long-seasoned jobs today to criticize the Eulegious Dreams, which were now both young weeks ago and their work interpreter. It's all good to criticize the government. You said it didn't do anything, and it's not true, as you know. To tell you the truth, you have turned him into a mantra, repeated and repeated that the Government does nothing, that he is at rest and in despair. Contributed with the subject. Although you might like that, even the data is stubborn and they reflect the opposite. The rate of unemployment gradually descends, the profession admits RPTA: Important progress, very important progress, we think. And criticisms, of course, are acceptable, especially when done with the will to improve them. But when you criticize him that everything is wrong, you lose credit, especially when there is no serious proprieties. Bildu claims to be an advocate for the worst-running collectives. Two weeks ago it was young people and their precarious employment situation, today it is the collective of long-term unemployed people. It is also trying to show itself as the only defender of these very vulnerable groups, in the face of an immobile Government that does not care about them, which is not true. In his appeal, he acknowledged that the Government had launched various actions contained in the Employment Plan – although it seemed insufficient to him – which had been approved by the RPT in Lanbide – which he also said in the appeal – which contradicted, in part, the accusation of absolute immobilisation on the part of the Government. So, even if you don't like it, it's just... it's just... We know, and this isn't self-conscious, there's still a lot of work to do, but President Urkullu's government is working from the first day to turn back to the state of unemployment. And you, Mrs. Arrido, as you said, according to the latest piece of unemployment that has been published, we have less than 347 unemployed in September. Between September 2007, September 2015, no number of unemployment has been spent in this month, even that positive data. Just as they criticize the inaction of the Government and the lack of ideas, when the data are bad, they should have the courage to recognize that something will have to do with the work of the Government when the unemployment situation improves. The annual variation also shows a decrease in unemployment in the Basque Country of 8.33% (with 14,115 people stopped less than a year ago), above the state average of 7.95 %. In addition, the annual balance shows a decrease in unemployment for 22 consecutive months, since December 2013, with an increasing tendency to widen the distance with the situation of the same month of the previous year. Social Security membership in Euskadi has also increased by 6,116 people compared to August, the largest increase in 10 years. Therefore, there are data, small if you want, incipient, not yet sufficient, that allow you to look at the future with something more optimism. With regard to concrete measures for the long-term unemployed, we have to say that the problem of this group is faced in a cross-cutting way through the various initiatives, measures and programmes put in place to create employment, maintain the existing one and improve the employability of people also through training. For example, the Lehen Aukera programme, aimed at young people's first work experience, includes unemployed and long-term young people, those under the age of 25 who have been in this situation for a period of six months. On the other hand, it should be noted that all Lanbide programmes prioritize the condition of long-term stoppage or stoppage when accessing the services provided by the Basque Employment Service. Under the employment programme (in particular the employment promotion programme) 9,311 people have benefited from long-term unemployment – all those over the age of 24 who are more than one year old as job seekers – which, translated into euro, amounts to €23,975,200. With regard to labour integration measures, 88,312 long-term unemployed persons have benefited from these programmes, with a disbursement of €7,107,000. In the employment training programmes, 10,561 long-term unemployed persons have benefited from the training programmes and EUR 8,831,300 have been allocated to this programme. With regard to social inclusion programmes, Lanbide has 41,584 recipients of GIR and CVP, who are in turn unemployed for a long time, amounting to 332,371,800 euros. In total, there are 149,768 long-term unemployed persons as beneficiaries of the various Lanbide programmes, although it is true that the same person can participate in several programmes at a time (he can be a beneficiary of GIR, guidance programmes, and also receive training courses); therefore, they can be taken into account twice. The total amount in euro is EUR 372,285,400. We didn't mean to be able to protect the motion of the gathering, because the fun is working hard for long-time unemployed by the different measures I've explained. You know, when you're in the mood to improve the rent, to give you a personal and permanent orientation and effective training, with the number of ungoverned regional numbers. We do not see, therefore, the need of the planning required by the motive. As for the second point, we'll have time to talk about this subject when the project of budgets in 2016 is introduced, and about quantity. We still don't think it's time to act on this and we don't vote for it either. The fundamental correction of the Socialist team in October 17, 2013, is exactly the same that we discussed another matter we had. Our party voted negatively for him at his moment and we didn't intend to protect him today. In the presence of a paper working at the ILP on the inclusion of certain social clauses in public procurement, we believe that this is the appropriate forum to analyse the possibility of introducing the requirement to incorporate a percentage of long-term unemployed into certain contracts. That is why it was the compromise amendment that we were trying to agree with you, which was not possible. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing on the line of teams that don't run, Misa mustn't speak. Basque Popular. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief physician, good morning to all. It is clear here that unemployment is a serious problem, and especially for the unemployed in a long period of unemployment. And in want of labour, especially in this group, it is that men, the more they pass by in that state, are more difficult to get out of it; and in the same way the public powers have to strive, and make special efforts to make such persons have a choice, and to get them out of it. Unemployment is a matter of concern. In all surveys, this is one of the issues of greatest concern to citizens, as well as to Basque citizens. And this situation is particularly acute with the long-term unemployed, because it is also a specific collective. It is a collective which, if it reaches unemployment already at a mature age, has special difficulties to then join the labour market. Moreover, when the longer they remain in this unemployment situation, the more difficult they are to join the labour market. It is therefore clear and obvious that it is a collective, together with that of women and young people, in which special attention must be paid to promoting, designing special policies aimed at finding employment and giving these people the opportunity. As stated in the question in the Council's reply, the Commission has issued a recommendation to member States to implement appropriate measures to achieve the goal of incorporating the long-term unemployed into the world. In this respect, the Commission has proposed guidelines with the aim of defining concrete measures for this group, and above all to ensure that these measures are aimed at designing personalised plans, suitable for these people, with a personalized itinerary also with concrete actions. Mr. Counsellor told us that this recommendation has been being implemented by Lanbide for some time now, not with the success we wanted. And it is true that the Councillor has recently been hearing many statements regarding the failure or failure to meet the objectives that you have set yourself in relation to employment policies. You say that this recommendation is being launched by Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service through specific actions, eta ematen du Eusko Jaurlaritzak eta Lanbidek finkatutako helburuak ez say the betetzen. Even in a previous discussion, on the committee, the chief physician told us the same thing. When we were talking about the work of mediation, the chief physician told us that the object which he had placed would not be attained. He said that too many breaches in relation to the objectives signed by this Government. This is not only in relation to the recommendation, but we also had the other day to check it in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy. We were told by the adviser that the 5% target in employment mediation was not going to be met, which was the target set by his department. On this issue, I have put a question to the Lehendakari tomorrow; therefore, I am not going to go any further on this. But I do want to make it clear that it is clear that this Government is not complying. It even recognises its failure to meet the objectives set in such a specific area, as important as the issue of job creation, of promoting employment, when we have our own tools (we have Lanbide, which also takes a huge amount of public resources). If we do, we would like to avoid making claims that the objectives will not be met, that we will be told and analysed what the reasons are, why the objectives are not met, and that an assessment of the measures being implemented will also be made. Mrs Arregi has told us about the huge amount of millions that are destined to launch programmes. By the way, it must be said that some very slowly, Mr Councilman, because in relation to very important programmes, such as local and regional employment programmes, which are consensual with the municipalities, this group has had to present practically all the initiatives because either the resolution of the calls was delayed, and, as its resolution was delayed, the next one also came out late... That is, when we turn to the facts, this Government is not accompanied by the facts. You cannot tell us the lehendakari that it is the government of the people, then budget amounts for all those programs that Mrs Arregi has detailed to us, but when the time comes to the truth, as the clear example that I am giving you of these employment plans, which are endowed, by the way, with 20 million euros, which are precisely also aimed at groups with special difficulties, such as the long-term unemployed... There have been initiatives here – I see that Mrs Arregi denies me head-on – unanimously adopted by this House, except for the party that supports the Government, because we understood that this issue had to be resolved without delay. And I hope that you will learn from the mistakes, and that, in a very clear mandate from this House, you will resolve and rectify concrete aspects such as those relating to these local and regional employment plans, in which the injured are the municipalities and the injured are also concrete collectives who see their opportunities for finding a job disappear, and often, most of the time in this case, because the government does not act diligently enough. We were talking about specialized guidance services for groups with special difficulties of insertion, among which are the long-term unemployed; we were talking about orientation, training, intermediary, personalized treatments. But where's the assessment of all this, counselor? During these three years of our parliamentary term, employment plans have been approved, all those programmes are planned, which Mrs Arregi has specified to us, which you have also detailed to us, and we are now told that the objectives are not being met, but that actions must be strengthened. You guys do a self-criticism and a self-examination of what's going wrong? What is being done wrong when the objectives are not met and when it is clear that there are no results of the actions that you are putting in place? I therefore believe that this initiative is appropriate. We do not, in principle, amend it to coincide with the content, with the substance. I do have to comment on a number of issues in relation to the compromise amendment signed between the Socialist Party and EH Bildu. And it is that, since we are in an area where I believe that there is no longer any indefinitiveness, that words, words and words are no longer worth talking about, but that we must move on to the facts, I would have liked more concrete action when we asked this government to present in Parliament in two months planning, comprehensive care for these people, with concrete initiatives in mediation, guidance and training. I believe that here too it is necessary for this Government to make an assessment of everything that has been put in place, of the results, and to see what is being done wrong, because it is obvious that something is being done wrong. And, on the other hand, when we talk about the new heading, I think it is a little confusing that paragraph, which refers to "so-called planning, which are the main axes of employment policies". Either way, we're gonna point them out. Let us hope that, as this government has to present this planning in Parliament, it will be quite comprehensive in it, that it will clearly examine the situation and the issues that you are going to address in relation to this issue, which is absolutely a priority for our group. We thought it was the same for this Government, but, according to the facts, it does not seem to be the absolute priority. And I hope, Mr Councillor, that the situation will be amended once and for all. And let's hope it's not too late for those people, like long-term employees, who already want to have a chance.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u54	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing the answer over to the shift, Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u55	Thank you. Too far, madam, I will confirm what you have said after you have heard your words. You use the data again to be self-centered. It looks like everything's doing from the funkong, that's not necessary to investigate, that it's not necessary to take a new measure, that it's going to be a situation that doesn't exist today. And I say, "Who aren't now," because reality and data also say something else. It's true that in September I also said that there were other facts, that the number of unemployed was smaller in September, but that they weren't important data either. However, if we talk about data, we'll have to discuss the quality of that job that is generated, and at the present day the contracts are 92% temporary, less than 83 months old, and 40% of them have less than a week to last. And in this situation, this is our proposition. Can you say that the goal is fulfilling, like you said? We think it's not, clearly, no. And I don't know how much money we've invested these people, I don't know what data the economy gives, and then everything's all right. No. Does that mean he didn't do anything? No. But we suggest that we change course. And speaking of it, you say: "It's all good to criticize you, it's all a review." That's cheating again. We make a reflection of the reality, an analysis, and we see that it is a serious situation, that these people have to provide a solution to these things, and we bring a proposition to them. It's suggested to change direction, but we're talking about a proposition. We're not criticizing what I don't know, we've put a proposition on the table. I want to be clear, because it looks like we're coming here to say it's all wrong, not to suggest anything. And that's not true. We have a proposition. In fact, what we're asking for in that proposition is to make a plan, that is, we're making homework for you. To do a planning is to give it a month's delay for making other specific measures start. And that takes money, there's got to be a game. And for that, we also say that social clauses can be used and used by such measures. And that's what you call it "no." And that's what you can't understand, how you can say no, when you admit that the head of the Tonya or Toña, at least, admitted that there are anxiety and misery in the present situation. Do we have to go on the same way, or do anything else between us all? We plan to take a different direction from the region and we're proposing to do that plan. That's why we don't understand the negative, and we're upset and worried. The other day we said (and Mrs. Pinedo, who is my first partner, has received an answer, but I shall confirm it), we went out of the general policy's company, because Mr. Urcullu had given him little importance in dealing with the matter of the office; because no proposition, two paragraphs, and the third of the three privileges. That's what we said the other day, but today we've seen the suggestion of the party that sings, and the examinations of the party that sings, it's still more serious, because the proposal goes the same way. And we don't agree. I think what we're planning is a builder, a new proposition, a plan to find a solution to long-term labouring people. And to conclude, it seems to us sometimes that things are not taken as they are intended. The day after tomorrow, for instance, is the international day of poverty, there are 830,000 people in our country who have more than two years in unemployment, poverty, and social neglect. I'm sure of all the institutions and...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u56	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u57	Right away. And the answer isn't always, and we don't agree. We hope you accept this. We thank you, we're glad to share the popular parties, and in the next few months we'll stay on this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u59	Mrs Arregi, the data you have provided is correct, adequate, valid and I accept them. But that doesn't change things. Long-term unemployed people have no chance of being absorbed into the labour market in private initiative. This is a reality. Only from public procurement (with the impact that we have said it has on GDP), through social clauses that take into account these disadvantaged groups (today we are talking about the long-term unemployed), only in this way can they have some chance of working, occasionally, in the face of a situation that they want no more work, no more work. It's a matter of decency. You have spoken out against this October 2013 agreement. We then talked about submitting to the conventions, because it was the subject of the debate then, but the question is that we proposed that a package of general administrative clauses be drawn up, for which the law enables us, the consolidated text of public sector contracts, which can therefore incorporate social clauses. We did not have to wait for the ILP and this presentation, which will have a political, ideological interest in dealing with it, but whose outcome in the process we do not know very well what it will be. But this is another thing that the Government could have done and incorporated social clauses. Because, moreover, this burden of contracting in the public sector is mainly concentrated on self-government and local authorities; it is the most interesting thing. From the Basque Government, therefore, instruments can be set up to ensure that there can be greater integration of these groups, which have some additional possibility. I personally am not going to criticize the Government because it does not achieve the objectives set; I know enough of defeats and, therefore, would not be scarred by that issue. But by failing to achieve the goals when the Government maintains an attitude that, as has been said by the rest of the groups, does not seem to enjoy great political nerve, then the reproach does arise. Of course, the goals are not achieved because of this lack of thrust and nerve, we understand. The data you have provided from Lanbide may be correct, but that doesn't change reality. And we believe that things can be done that, as I said in the first part, do not have a budgetary correlation. This can be done by the Government so that the Basque public sector can incorporate it into its procurement acquis and have that possibility that in certain contracts... Moreover, we do not say in what percentage or in what percentage, it is at the discretion of the contracting bodies to establish in which contracts or in what percentage these collectives may be incorporated. But these are concrete measures, these are already practical actions that can be carried out with legal authorization for this and that at least, although they are not going to solve the problem as a whole, they show that we are in a society that takes these groups into account. In the first point, reference is made to regional plans. We have already seen in other debates also that local and regional employment plans have led to an unequal fate. We think that local development and local and regional employment plans are very important, but the local development agencies, which have been cited here as collaborating entities right now – and I pointed out in the first intervention – cannot at the moment carry out the orientation, because the Government did not foresee for September, when the agreements with collaborating entities expired, to have a decree that would allow there to be a continuum. A parenthesis of several months is then produced until the guidance by the collaborating entities is put into effect. Of course, and this is another element of the many who are emerging here throughout the discussions on what is the Government's momentum on these issues. That is why I was saying, and it was not a phrase, that the active policies for the Government are like an unwanted child, it does not seem to go well with the matter, because it is the element for which the opposition reproaches the Government; therefore, it does not do well. But then, from the point of view of political action, we see that all the elements that programmatically integrate active employment policies, one by one, present more than remarkable deficits.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u60	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Eubertarians. Ms. Too much, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u61	Thank you again, Mr. congressman. Mrs. Arrido, you say you ask the government to bring us a planning in two months' time. Yes, a planning, but it has no precision in the medium, in the orientation, in the training. And what we're saying is that it works. Government is involved in the mediating process. Lanbide's employment intermediation rate in 2013 was 2.1%; in 2014, it was 2.6%. It's coming up. That he hasn't gotten to the best of it yet? Obviously. The average for Europe is 4%, and to what was promised by the director of Lanbide, in an appearance in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy, was to reach 5% at the end of the parliamentary term. It has not yet reached the end of the legislature and has risen to 2.6%. We have other autonomous communities that have received competition from active employment policies much longer than Euskadi, and Catalonia is at 1.2%, Madrid at 1.5%, Valencia at 1.5%, and Nafarroa at 1.6%. It is not "bad of many comfort of fools", but let us also be realistic and draw in the intermediation also the positive data that exist, which is progressing in that intermediation that Lanbide is doing. And we also believe that the fact that the RPT has been approved will strengthen all the work that is being done. As for the subject that it has to be something personalized, it is already done. That's not enough, that we have to focus more? Okay, but it's already done. Since a person comes to Lanbide for the first time, an employability assessment is made and hence an individualized plan is made for each person who comes to use Lanbide's services. That's why we say the government is already doing it. That we should continue to incide and that I hope there would be no long-term stoppage? Obviously. But the figures and numbers must also be taken into account, and we are talking about 372,285,400 euros, of which 149,768 people have benefited from long-term unemployment. Socialist Party. The truth, Mr. Itxaso, you keep surprising me. Two weeks ago, I was talking about the fact that I didn't want to impose any more duties on the Government because you already saw it well enough, but all of a sudden today you say that you do want me to make that new plan that you showed your rejection two weeks ago. On the subject of budgets (the second point in the compromise amendment to which you have come), as I said to Mrs Arrondo in my first speech, I do not think it is time to talk about it. And with regard to the third point, which is that which you included in your initial amendment and which contains the agreement of 17 October 2013, I will tell you that we are voting against. And the People's Party also abstained that time with UPyD; I don't know what Mrs. Garrido is going to do at this point today, because I think she's been a little lost – I don't know if she's been to other menisters – but at that time they abstained. And the reply sent to us yesterday from the Government regarding the degree of compliance with parliamentary initiatives, with respect to that particular initiative, states: "It may pose serious problems in terms of its compliance with the current law. In fact", and this for Mrs Pinedo, who has previously been praising how well the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation all did, "the foral rules of the Gipuzcoana regulation of the same object of the motion is doubly appealed before the courts, by the Basque Competition Authority, on the one hand, and by the State Advocate, on the other." We therefore find it a genuine irresponsibility to adopt that point in that compromise amendment. You say we had competence to include social clauses. Yes, but it also does not need to be included so that an administration, if you want, can establish it. Wherever you have skills, you can do it. Nor does it need to be waiting for the Government. If you are so concerned about it, where you have government responsibilities put it into practice. Mrs Garrido, I insist again, I think you are a little lost in today's debate, talking about the intermediation of Lanbide – which was not the subject of today's debate –, the plans, the evaluation. That is what we talked about at the hearing recently, when Mr Toña, the Sailburu, came to explain the final results of that employment plan, and also previously, in April, he had also given the provisional data. Therefore, I think it should be focused. And I do not know if you have heard what I have said to Mr Bixen Itxaso on the third point, which is appealed by the State's Advocate. You abstained earlier; therefore, you may have to vary that support to that third point.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Finally, the Euskal Potula Group representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u63	No, Mrs Arregi – I do not know if you have not understood me correctly, or I have not explained myself correctly – we will vote in favour of the first two points, although we have said that we would have liked them to have been more accurate and not so incredulous. And we are going to abstain in the third, because the People's Party is a party of coherence, not like you, who say one thing when you are in the government and another in the opposition. For example, in the debate we had last week on social emergency aid: despite the fact that your mayor at Vitoria City Council asks that the Basque Government put more money into social emergency aid, you here say no. It's just that that's incoherence, Mrs. Arregi. Or even when you are in opposition, as in past legislation: you asked that the Basque Government, because it is the responsibility of the Basque Government, put more money. But, well, that's not the point. The point is that it is clear that this Government does not meet the objectives. And not meeting the objectives is not a baladian issue, when the Government is already recognizing that the objectives will not be corrected. It is true that it seems that sometimes they come into contradictions, but it is also true that in the end everything is seen, as the subject of the adjustments that we will have to deal with in the budgets. Let's see where we see them. Let us hope that these adjustments do not reach all that retaliatory programme which you have told us, that they do not reach local and regional employment plans, and that they will also be resolved this year with the speed they require and that calls will also be made in the annual exercise, as has been left in this Parliament in numerous initiatives which this group has presented and in which you have been left alone. Therefore, when the objectives are not met, one of two: either the objectives are wrongly set, which is important – and it seems that on the one hand it can also be so, according to what the adviser himself has acknowledged – or the options that are necessary for the achievement of the objectives are not put in place, which is also of this, because we have already seen that many items in relation to entrepreneurship, employment, are not being met. And what the slogan of this government, which has hung it, I believe, everywhere, is that what is important to this government is people. If people are important to this Government, this should be the main problem for Basque citizens, which is unemployment. And something that has to lead to reflection on this government: when the councillor himself in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, when talking about all these issues... Because we need to talk a lot about all these issues in this Parliament, because we are dealing with the main problem, Mrs Arregi. When you are not doing it right, there is a clear inaction, a lack of diligence, things must be repeated and brought many times into this House. But I say to show, a button, and to show the button of when the counselor illustrated us saying that the problem with Lanbide is that companies pass from Lanbide. I believe that this is a statement that very much denotes what is there, in Lanbide, and the attitude of this Government in relation to this matter. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u64	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the Middle Amendment of the Basque Socialists. I got it right by point. We'll vote for the first and the second. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 45; counters, 27; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u65	So the first and second points are accepted. Next, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters 35; opponents 27; white, 0; abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u66	The third point is also approved. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, myria Llanos Gómez, a member of the Basque Groups of Popula, presented to us by the content of the following law of transparency to prevent clyentelism. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Llanos, it's yours to introduce and get rid of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. 15 days ago I asked the lehendakari, although finally the one who answered me was Mr Erkoreka, about what would be the content of the next transparency law. And I did it because, as I said at the time, in the plenary of general policy Lehendakari himself spoke of transparency, that transparency and good governance were essential for the proper functioning of an administration and to generate confidence in the citizenry. And from the People's Group, as I said then and I repeat it today, we certainly share this statement. And believe me, Mr Erkoreka, since you are here, that concern is an honest concern, even if it seemed like you were questioning it the other day. And we, too, could sometimes doubt the interest of this government in transparency, judging by some facts that I said at the time, such as the relative – and I want to reiterate here today, because I think we would gain in transparency – to refer to this House the preliminary draft laws, which was also a proposal that you made in the Congress of Deputies, but which here, however, is not yet in force. We proposed an amendment to the Government Act 7/81, to ensure that transparency, but that proposal has not yet been even discussed. Nor do the resolutions issued by the ethical committee, which say very little about its credibility, show much interest in transparency. In addition to committing to observing the provisions of the state transparency law – which we believe is yours – the lehendakari did show that, before the end of the year, the transparency bill was to be brought to this House. And what we wanted to put on the table, and we want to put on the table today too, is what is going to be the content of this law and if you can go beyond that content. Obviously, this law will aim to ensure that citizens are able to scrutinize how decisions are made in institutions, how public money is used or how it is acted in those same institutions. It is to be assumed, because it cannot be otherwise, that these forecasts will be collected, although it is also true that the other day the ESC considered that the Government's transparency bill was insufficient for its application in the various Basque administrations. He pointed out that it remained in an extension of his general principles, and that was one of the issues that we raised in that inquiry: whether the content of that transparency law could go further, whether the content of that law could include formulas to avoid an issue that is given – and is given even if some do not like to talk about it – and it is the political clientelism that exists in the Basque Parliaments, in the municipalities, in the Basque Government and in public societies. Mr Erkoreka gave us here almost two weeks ago a class of the concept of political clientelism, which had different versions: anthropological, sociological, political, historical and legal. He pointed out that our interest was in the legal aspect, essentially, with regard to recruitment. Man, I think the anthropological, historical and polytological point of view of political clientelism may be good for doctoral theses, but I think that, when discussing in this House what this law of transparency should avoid, what is most worrying is the legal concept of political clientelism. And, as I said here and I would like to reiterate today, in many Basque institutions many entrepreneurs who do not have political links do not have opportunities, because there seems to be favourable treatment in public tenders, in favour of certain companies that are always in the hands of certain people. And this, as I said on that occasion, is not something I have heard; it is that they have come to tell me when I asked them why they were not going to a bidding, and the answer was: "We have no chance, because there are companies much better positioned politically." And I in that plenary asked a series of rhetorical questions, questions that were not answered to me. If it were a coincidence that the same companies, linked to posts, discharges, relatives, related to the same political party, were always the contractors in the contracts. If it was a coincidence that, when one followed the builders who worked in the different institutions, almost always the same appear. If one is going to check in the commercial register who is part of these builders, there are charges affiliated or related to the Basque Nationalist Party. Also when cultural services, social services, are provided in many municipalities, they are always given to companies in whose managerial positions appear positions or discharges of the Basque Nationalist Party. It must also be a coincidence that aid is given to a company, that it comes into competition with creditors almost in a row and that when you look at who that company belongs to, it belongs to Mr Ardanza and his family. That the producers who work with EITB have also been related to charges of the Basque Nationalist Party. Or, I mentioned it here, the case of Mr Atutxa, who constitutes a real lobby, with companies such as Alaiki, Ingeplan, Arkigest, Iaz and Ekin, and that in all those companies there were children, nephews, brothers and sisters from whom he was President of this Parliament and adviser to the Basque Government. In these companies and companies that are awarded in a vast majority of the contracts of the Basque public institutions, it seems that membership of the Basque Nationalist Party and affinity with positions of the Basque Nationalist Party is the characteristic note. Well, we believe that it is necessary to arbitrate measures so that this does not happen, to avoid corruption and also political clientelism, because here, in Euskadi, even if some want to sell it as a happy Arcadia, there has also been corruption, but what has been there are many, many examples of political clientelism. For some, that political clientelism is a way of life, and sometimes the doors between the public and the private, especially in a certain political party, as I said here, rotate in a way that I don't know how those at those doors don't get dizzy. And, as I say, it is necessary to arbitrate measures to prevent that. And the first thing to do – and it seems that it has been accepted, because we have reached a compromise amendment – is to acknowledge that there are many, many cases of political clientelism in Euskadi, and that it is not a normal practice and that it cannot be assumed as a normal practice. That one cannot assume as something normal, that it is part of the landscape, that the public offices of the party that governs in most of the institutions, that is the Basque Nationalist Party – and they are responsible for telling us that they govern in most of the institutions, right? – that their relatives, that their associates set up companies that are then awarded the awards in a majority way in those institutions. That's not normal, that's not natural. And you have to assume that it's neither normal nor natural and that you have to change it. We have to change that philosophy, which seems that here the Nationalist Party not only governs in the Basque institutions, but also in the awards, in the contracts, in the aid also the majority is always the Basque Nationalist Party. Steps must be taken, steps must be taken to ensure that this does not happen, and the law of transparency and good governance is a good opportunity for that. Mr Erkoreka said that it was not the right instrument, and it seems to be, because we are going to arrive at an amendment in which it seems to be the instrument. And it was also contradictory, because when this matter was discussed in another chamber, at the Bizkaia General Councils, where the People's Group proposed that a series of measures be agreed to to avoid political clientelism, what was said there was that, as a rule of transparency was in process, it should be included in that rule. And that is why this group here has taken advantage of the situation that a transparency law will be introduced in the coming days to request that, as it had been said there that this would fall within the transparency law, the transparency law that will be introduced will take measures to avoid such political clientelism. A good measure, which we have not put into the amendment but which can be included – and, if not, we will put it as an amendment when the transparency law comes – is that clearly, as I said here, a history of the contracts that have been given to the different companies, and that in the end they are all related and they all appear in the same institutions, and that whoever is part of those companies is part of other companies that are also contracting. As I said here, the red lights would jump, the citizens would have it very clear; although it is true that they have the feeling of political clientelism, there would be the black test on white. I believe that this transparency law that will come to this House is a good opportunity for citizens to know how institutions work, how we organize ourselves, who we are in those institutions, how we make decisions and where public money goes and how we use public money. We will also have the opportunity – I don't know whether in that transparency law or, if not, through other measures – for the ethical commission to truly serve to ensure the untainable nature of all those who are engaged in public office, and fundamentally those who are part of a governing council. And it will also be an opportunity to change that political philosophy to which I referred, to ensure transparency and equal treatment in recruitment and to move us away from that which is no longer a suspicion, but a reality in Euskadi, which is precisely the existence of that political clientelism. We, as it was said here that it was not proper to the law on transparency, in our initiative we had said that it was the law on transparency, and that, if it was not considered relevant, other legislative measures would be introduced that would help this through other regulatory instruments. Finally, I believe that with the amendment we have reached, it can be through the transparency law that measures and actions can be taken to combat and prevent political clientelism. We have also included, because reference was made here, the amendment to the Public Contracts Act, which we know is not a matter for this body but which can also arbitrate measures to prevent, as Mr Erkoreka said here, political clientelism or conflicts of interest exist; also to ensure access to information, which has only very justified causes as exceptions, and which in any case must prevail the general interest. In the amendments tabled by both UPyD and Bildu, I think there are some interesting points. I believe that there are points that can become initiatives, and in fact some are already being dealt with, such as the amendment of EITB or the Basque Court of Public Accounts – the Contracts Act we have included in the amendment – the issue of commercial registration. I think these are interesting points, but I think they should be the subject of other initiatives and other debates. Because, even if they are related, I believe that if we want to focus on the issue of political clientelism, this initiative is essentially aimed at avoiding that. That there may then be other issues that are connected to this and that may be interesting to raise? Of course, we will be prepared to discuss them and support them, but I believe that this is aimed at a very specific issue, which has been mainly reflected in the amendment which we and the Basque Nationalist Group have finally negotiated and which we hope will have the support of this House. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u68	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u69	Thank you, President. The matter we are dealing with is of extraordinary importance. The fight against clientelism or, in other words, the fight against the appropriation of institutions by political parties, or by certain political parties, to put them at their service. We are talking about this, about the appropriation of institutions by certain political parties. And that's not a philosophy, as Mrs. Llanos said. It's a lot more. It is a way of life that must be helped to dismantle with a battery of long-range measures. Mrs Llanos has also spoken of corruption, because it is absolutely related: clientelism, friendliness, plugging, corruption or corruption. Mrs Llanos said in her question that there are clear examples of political clientelism in Euskadi, in the municipalities, in the parliaments, in the Basque Government and in public societies. And, indeed, this is so. He said that there seems to be a favourable treatment in public auctions, always of certain companies that are in the hands of people who are always linked to the same political party: the Basque Nationalist Party. And he added that it cannot appear that it is PNV that is the safe conduct to be awarded public tenders, aid and subsidies from the Administration. And to deal with all this, what Mrs Llanos proposed through her motion was to perfect the transparency law as much as possible. Mr Erkoreka, here present, said in that inquiry that the law of transparency is not the ideal instrument to address the material regulation of political clientelism in administrative contracting. He drew attention to the fact that, as such, the Basque Nationalist group had tabled an amendment referring to the forthcoming presentation of that transparency law, because the spokesman for the Basque Government a few days ago said that that was not the appropriate instrument to combat clientelism. This confirms what we already know, and it is that the Basque Nationalist Party does not want to fight against clientelism; instead, it wants that clientelism to remain in order to continue to take political out of that matter. Certainly, it's getting attention. By the way, Mr Erkoreka, in that inquiry you, as usual, clearly manipulated the debate and manipulated a few words from Mrs Llanos. You said that big cases of corruption in Spain don't give way to hiring relatives and friends. You manipulated, because Mrs Llanos did not propose that public awards be awarded to friends or family members, but to public or organic positions of the PNV or to their friends or family members, who are similar but very different. With which you, with the skill that characterizes you, tried to manipulate history. No, we are talking about prominent or unremarkable members of the Basque Nationalist Party who are beneficiaries of certain preferential treatment or decisions of the Basque Government. That was Mrs. Llanos' complaint. In any case, we will analyze what clientelism is, because, according to the RAE, clientelism is the system of protection and protection with which the powerful sponsor those who welcome them in exchange for their submission and their services. Political clientelism is an unofficial exchange of favours, in which political office holders regulate the granting of benefits obtained through their public office or of contacts related to it in exchange for electoral support. Indeed, this is political clientelism. And in a system of clientelism, the power over the decisions of the administrative apparatus of the State is used to obtain private benefit. The pattern makes decisions that favor its clients and that these compensate with perpetuation in the power of the official involved or their environment. The relationship can be strengthened by the threat of using the same decision-making capacity to harm those who do not cooperate with the system. The usual relationship between the main public or private media and the main parties close to any of the most important bodies of power, a phenomenon which is particularly characteristic of systems with strong consolidation or predominance of situations of bipartisanism, is paradigmatic in this regard. That is what we are talking about and we can put very specific cases. Because what do we talk about when we talk about clientelism, friendliness, plugging or, in some of the cases I'm going to quote, directly corruption? We are talking about the cases pointed out by Mrs Llanos. We are talking about Ibarzaharra, where certain public offices allegedly did not work but did charge. We are talking about Pinosolo, a case of mismanagement and reassignment of certain public offices in certain public enterprises. We are talking about Hiriko and the privileged treatment of certain companies. We are talking about the plugging that exists in the public enterprises of Euskadi. We are also talking about the control of the public media by certain governments or political parties, and this is happening in Euskadi and it is happening in other autonomous communities. This also favors clientelism, corruption and corruption. That's why political parties, that's why governments always want to control the media so they can't expose or denounce all these cases. We are obviously talking about buying news, Mr Erkoreka. We are talking about illegal financing of certain media outlets. We are talking about paying certain media outlets to interview certain advisors of the Basque Government. This is also clientelism. And we are also talking about the politicization of the Basque Court of Public Accounts or other courts of accounts, which logically prevents the fight against clientelism. And we are talking about revolving doors, that is, the relocation of posts or former public posts in certain companies. And we are talking about the outbursts, that is, the privileged treatment of public office. And we talk about the politicization of certain institutions such as the Banco de España, such as the National Securities Market Commission, such as the different regulatory bodies. That's what we're talking about. And we are talking, and this should have been included in that compromise amendment, about the politicization of justice in Spain. We are also talking about that, that the traditional and majority political parties in Spain have the justice colonized through the General Council of the Judiciary, Constitutional Court or Supreme Court and also the Prosecutor's Office. And we talk about the revolving doors, and we talk about the pardons to the corrupt, and we talk about nepotism, and we talk about the looting of Caja Madrid or Bankia. We are also talking about the fact that a Minister of the Government of Spain receives Rato in his office. This is also a bad political practice, this is also clientelism, this is also a favor deal. We talk about the Gürtel plot, we talk about Punica, we talk about the Pujol case or we talk about the EREs of Andalusia and so many other things. This is what we're talking about. And all this is clientelism, or corruption in some cases. It favors clientelism, allows it and, of course, does not fight against that bad practice. And to deal with this, what is needed is not a law of transparency, but much more. We need to put in place a battery of measures to regenerate democracy and fight against amigoism, enchufism, nepotism, clientelism in all its aspects and political corruption. Hence the amendment tabled by UPyD, where we have tried to collect all this, because all this is necessary. It is not that it is interesting, as Mrs Llanos said; it is absolutely indispensable: a good battery of measures to regenerate democracy in Euskadi and Spain. We are talking about the appropriation of institutions by political parties and the powerful to put them at their service, and all this has to be addressed. This is the political battle that must be waged and that the establishment is trying to throw down and prevent, using all the imaginable ways to do so. All this, therefore, and much more, should be done to fight against clientelism, friendship and corruption. There's all that battery raised by UPyD. It is a question of ending the opacity, of making it more transparent, of the public media counting and denouncing the excesses of different governments. It is about professionalizing the regulatory bodies, depoliticizing the courts of accounts so that they can better monitor the institutions. This is about guaranteeing independent justice in Spain, which we do not have today. It is a question of improving democracy in the end. That is why I support my amendment, because there are many of the things that must be done and that the main political parties refuse to carry out. That is why the compromise amendment that you have signed is clearly insufficient to combat clientelism, corruption, friendliness or corruption.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u70	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Collect EH. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u71	Good morning, everyone. When we received the proposal, we were surprised, especially when we saw who was behind the proposal. In fact, I have great doubts whether the party who introduced the initiative is really responsible for the transparency. Not only from the point of view of political enterprise, but also in the sense of public management. Bestalde, argi daukat ere klentelismoz asko dakiela proposemena ekarri duen taldeak. Klentelismoz asko daki tade horrek, askotan substatu egin duelako eta probetxu tente aera diolako. This debate today has several aspects. On the one hand, we are talking about the law of transparency, and on the other hand, we are introducing aspects relating not only to political clientelism, but to controlling the excesses that have been committed by political parties that have ruled for economic powers, also when it comes to legislation, how these powers relate to political power, and how political power ends up benefiting certain people not only at the economic level, but also at the power level. Gai Horixe Honen Gakoa, Botera, Hain Zuzen Ere. As you will know, the laws to penetrate into transparency are not something of the present day. 18th in the century they were already speaking of it, and began to regulate the right of making information about what was done in the public area. Thus the public institutions, which the people might have at hand, began to take notice of the decisions which they were to make, and to make contracts, projects, costs, etc., public. It was the Anglo-Saxon countries that continued this tradition. And while corruption, clientelism, or the concealment of information by governments have not disappeared, we can say that at least the citizen's ability to have access to more truthful, more detailed and closer information is something real. Of course, this does not in itself bring a balm of greater democracy or equality, or even of greater critical awareness of excesses. But what does contribute is the ability to be able to control the outbursts of people who make decisions in the public sector and of groups who, thanks to their power and money, want to control whether those decisions go in one direction or another. And before these we are. From the looks of it, we'll soon have a law of transparency. Let us hope that it will not only seek that all public documents can be accessible to citizens, but that it will open the doors and windows of those dark spaces of power in which business and banking sharks, moralists and other clubs that make pressure their profession and thus manage to influence politics and political groups. We didn't have much light that could cause the Chamber's presence directly in a law that will present itself here. Therefore, by a correction we have attempted to explain some of the most important points we shall defend in the discussion of this motion. The first of the points that we are defending today is that the law designates access to information as a fundamental right and therefore eliminates those exceptions that are given today in order not to provide us with such information. We believe that the right to information is above most of the excuses or reasons that may exist so as not to provide us with all the information. I think we are not the only ones in this House who defend the same thing here today. The second of the amendments is an amendment in addition to the original one tabled by the group which is the promoter of this initiative. So, to your amendment we add something in which we believe that all of you must and can agree, that is, the uncensored publication of the business register in order to put measures against the corporate plots and thus end conflicts of interest. With this measure and opening up communication between the different public administrations, situations such as those experienced by the same Government in relation to persons who were participating in the boards of directors of private companies being members of the Government would never have happened. I believe that the Government itself will be the first to be interested in this measure appearing in the future law. The third and last is in relation to lobbyists and interest groups. Since their existence is unquestionable, we must begin to regulate the way in which they relate to the Administration and to public administrators. It's an obligation we have. That is why we are launching this idea to the Government to include it in its future law, provided that it is in the interest and interest of the public to know with which lobbying groups their high offices meet and what they are talking about. I imagine that this would clarify the doubts that surround us about our heads in relation to the TAV, the incinerators, Kutxabank, Euskaltel, Iberdrola, Repsol, various consultants, including architecture, various audits, etc., etc. In short, this would be good for all citizens, although the most interested, sure, would be the Government itself. As you see, these recommendations are in relation to what the proposer was calling for, i.e. on issues that may have to do with the power and flocks of vultures that revolve around her. More specifically, about public money. But since we have occasion to speak also of the law of transparency, I would like my speech to be ended by talking about this law. Since 2013, legislation has been in place at the State level. The period of application for the different local administrations – as they call us – is two years since their approval. That is, either the Government is in a hurry to bring here a good law of transparency or we will suffer the law of transparency of the party of corruption, friendship and political clientelism. That is not what I am saying, but rather that the criticisms of this law come from the European Commission itself. Critics are: The first, due to the lack of monitoring of the financing of political parties, the European Commission requires the Government of the Kingdom of Spain to carry out greater control and to strengthen the sanctions regime. This is important not only for the PP, but for all parties that have extra lines of financing on the part of companies, loans forgiven by banks, donations of entrepreneurs with subsequent counterpart to the level of contracting, etc. The second criticism made by the European Commission was that this law of transparency lacked sufficient guarantees for the independence of its control mechanism. It is the fox who continues to watch the henman, something like putting José Luis Bilbao in charge of the Basque Court of Accounts. I imagine that appointment to the European Commission would not have liked anything either. The Commission's third criticism. It notes the high risk of corruption in the construction and garbage collection sectors. Beware of the TAV and the incinerators, which some in Europe have already put their eyes on what we have been denouncing to them for a long time! Fourth of the criticisms of this Commission. We are talking about the cost of corruption itself, which amounts to EUR 120 billion. In short, a big scam made by big scammers. As you see, there is an extreme need to take letters on the matter and put in place the necessary means not only to be a transparent administration, but to be a responsible administration with citizens and their interests, and not, as has been the case so far, an administration that benefits and gives way to the interests of political parties and the powerful. That is why we and we maintain our amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u72	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u73	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good noon. It is transparency to-day that we talk and talk, and I was tempted to give an easy answer to the Popular Party. As a subject connected with corruption, the assault would be too easy; However, we shall not take the easiest way, because we owe more to the Basque people. And I don't think it's lawful to act recklessly on this subject, because it's too easy to say, "Y tu más." That's very simple to throw it out, but it doesn't solve anything, because it ruins the political practice, and, after all, because it's politics, it's the light that, in my humble opinion, will solve us. I am pleased that Mrs Llanos has been permeable to the replies she received from the Councillor for Public Administration and Justice in her parliamentary initiative, which, at this time, is not only talking about the future transparency law as an effective instrument to combat and prevent political patronage, but also, and I am opening quotes, about "or, where appropriate, a regulation to the effect", I close quotes. It is important, because in his writing of interpellation he attributed almost miraculous effects to the transparency bill in order to avoid political clientelism. Well found, Mrs. Llanos. It will be with me that the phenomenon of corruption cannot be addressed only from the parameters of transparency and good governance. Bad procurement practices can be combated through the visibility of such contracts (verbigrance, transparency, which is the subject of this debate), but also, and above all, from prevention. That is why there is that part of the amendment that we have negotiated that refers to the Contracts Act. And prevention is the most effective weapon to combat corruption and corruption because corrupt practices flourish in the pre-contractual phase, in the award phase and also in the execution phase of contracts. Well, this Parliament can lay down rules on transparency, and also, as the Councilman said a couple of weeks ago, on subsidies. But there are many issues that have to do directly or tangentially with political corruption that are outside our sphere of competence, such as the basic legislation on public procurement, referred to in the transaction, and also that which regulates the incompatibilities of staff in the service of public administrations and, last but not least, the Criminal Code itself, matters on which the Constitutional Court itself has already been responsible to point out their basic character. I share with you the honest concern you seem to have regarding the improvement of the public procurement control regime and the measures envisaged for this in the future law. But let me point out that the bandage is being put on before the wound, as it is prejudging a text that is unknown. You know very well that the Basque Government is dealing with this preliminary draft law, but you also know that it has not yet been adopted, as the procedures are being finalized for the Government to adopt the draft law. The bill will therefore be in the House in a few weeks. It will then be when parliamentary groups will be able to discuss the provisions of the rule, where you will be able to see that the threshold for active advertising in the field of procurement is going to be higher than that laid down on a basic basis by the rules of the State and also higher than the whole of the autonomous communities. And active advertising and access to information are the tools that can contribute to political clientelism having difficulty in emerging and developing, but, as the counselor said before and as he said a couple of weeks ago, let us not be deluded either, for these instruments alone will not eliminate or make these appalling practices disappear. But in this matter I invite you to read and review the regulations adopted by autonomous communities governed at the time by the People's Party, such as Castile and León and Valencia. I invite you to compare that legislation with which the Government will bring this Parliament and you will be able to see that we are going to take a step forward in this area. We are going to go further, with a greater demand than that provided for by that basic legislation. Mrs Llanos, I believe you when as a People's Party you say you have purpose of amendment with regard to corruption. I believe him and I want to believe him. And also when he says he wants to incorporate measures into the law to limit and combat political clientelism. But, in the same way, I say to you that you cannot shatter the words of Councillor Erkoreka in parliamentary office two weeks ago, nor the commitment of the Lehendakari and his Government to bring to this House an upbuilding law that will certainly serve as a model for other public administrations, more if it is possible when this new text has been drawn up on the basis of incorporating many of the amendments that you have tabled. I am aware that the Government is making an effort to introduce the amendments that you have tabled against the law on public administration. Specifically in the chapter on economic information to be made public, and as the Councillor commented here, 43 amendments from the parliamentary groups have been accepted. In particular, 15 amendments from the People's Parliamentary Group have been incorporated, which refer to information on recruitment. The Government will therefore shortly bring to this House the bill on transparency, citizen participation and good governance of the Basque public sector, which is its full name, in the hope that transparency will be welcomed by the public authorities and citizens as a principle of action or value. The policy about public activity transparency has a double purpose. On the one hand, the necessity of the public administration, in order to place the public information in his hands, in order not to require them; and on the other hand, that every one has a right to receive them by a request. Berez, keeper of a beret ez from the helburu bat. Transparency is not an end in itself. As Professor Rafael Jiménez Asensio said, "The fundamental value of transparency is its instrumental role as a power control tool. That is where, in fact, it can eradicate its future strength. But in order to achieve this important role, it will be necessary to burn down many stages of this long process that leads to the democratic maturity of the citizenry and to a real strengthening of the quality of the institutions and of the people who populate them. Something tremendously difficult in the short term. It's all about getting started, but let no one make big illusions. Too many expectations have been placed on a policy that demands for its effective realization many things that we do not yet possess." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u74	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u75	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Group proposed that in the transparency law, which we hope to initiate as soon as possible, or in any other rule to that effect, measures and actions should be taken to combat and prevent political clientelism. And we were absolutely in agreement with that initial approach, as we have stated on every occasion we have been discussing these issues, because it is neither the first nor will be the last. And because of this, moreover, as you will agree with me, we can talk to the Socialists for a long time, because this is the way, ladies and gentlemen, which we started and in which we progressed in a long way in the last parliamentary term. They've heard it many times and I repeat it one more time. The Government of Urkullu, the current Government, inherited the greatest progress in transparency that has been made in Euskadi. He inherited Irekia, Open Data, the profile of the contractor, the regulation of electronic administration. An internationally recognized and accredited experience, and, by the way, without any law behind it that forced it to do so. And in the face of this undeniable advance that this Government received from the predecessor, when it came to giving legal form to that commitment, it intended to leave us as an inheritance a bad copy of that state legislation. And we are going to pass, I have said many times, from head to tail in terms of transparency. That's why, Mr. Latxaga, we sent that law to the drawer... Anyway, you've put the bandage on before the wound ("Don't be deluded") and that's very dangerous. We send this project to the drawer, as I said to you, because, we have said it every time we have had, we have opted for a law of radical transparency, because this transparency of the activities of the public authorities and access to the information that works in their power constitute one of the main demands of a consolidated democratic society. And so, we also agree with the most demanding measures regarding active advertising, whereby the public authorities (and not only them, but also some private entities that are publicly subsidised or pursuing public services) come to publish regularly in an up-to-date, clear and understandable manner and, above all, structuredly all relevant information on their activity, operation and structure. And we also agree to guarantee the right to access to public information, as these are two aspects of what we call the principle of transparency, which basically consists in considering that all documents are exactly that, of the public, and therefore can only be retained to protect other legitimate rights and interests. And, as it could not otherwise be, with the establishment of forceful measures, Mrs Llanos, to avoid conflicts of interest; above all, conflicts of economic interest, but there are conflicts of social interest that should be seen. I am referring, above all, to the request made by EH Bildu for the creation of a kind of register of interests. Because we must remind you, for example, in your approach to declaring the right to information as a fundamental right, that the doctrine on this matter is not peaceful, although it is related to other fundamental rights contained in the Constitution, in the section on fundamental rights, such as the right to political participation, freedom of expression and truthful information. And I take the floor, and I also invite you to, in that constitutional reform that we are going to push when we are in the Government of Spain, the abertzale left gets wet and whatever it does is to work hard for the shielding of all fundamental rights and put it on the table if it is so clear. And we are also at that bet on radical transparency, and we believe that this must also be translated into a comprehensive reform of the public sector, which must be regulated by law. However, these principles have been laid down and we agree with what the People's Party has brought to the debate, and we must say that we are failing in this request that it has not been in the transparency law presented by Mr Rajoy, who puts a lot of obstacles to access to all information related to the euro, above all to the public money that administrations and public companies and societies handle. A law which, as I have told you before, Mrs Llanos, was timid and insufficient, but which was – and I say this by the Urkullu government – imitated, but at the bottom, in its objectives. A law that was resigned and failed, to the extent that it lacked, as you well know, a specific chapter of sanctioning regime, which is what basically makes compliance with the rule itself effective, and which we have forced to put in the drawer with the express mandate – very important this from the express mandate – of this Parliament to turn it around and present us with an ambitious, progressive, clear and effective law for a modern, efficient administration and for the service of the citizenry. We really believe in the need for comprehensive public sector reform and radical transparency as a basic principle of operation for the future. Because we citizens demand more public administrations. Basque society requires a modern administration, appropriate to current needs, that is clear in its language, understandable, rigorous, that it bets on the evaluation of public policies at the beginning, in the middle and in the end, that it bets on the evaluation of all public policies, that it brings economic value and that it is transparent, and that it can be followed, above all, by the trace of each public euro. That is one of the important cores of this issue: to follow every public euro, to follow the trail. And that is to be achieved with these two laws which the Government has committed itself to bringing in and which we hope it will do, including the contributions made. For all this and regardless of these previous warnings from the representative of the Nationalist Group, we hope that, once approved this non-legislative proposal that we will support despite the fact that it seems a little more melifluous this more demanding... No: radical demand. To try to eliminate, no: measures to eliminate, to the extent possible, all these kinds of issues. And in that law that comes, in the text that presents us, we hope that all this that we are asking of you will be reflected. And we expect it because it touches and because it is necessary, and because it is also a parliamentary mandate, a parliamentary mandate that must be fulfilled, because this is an agreement of absolutely all the parliamentary groups in this House. But it must be said that, regardless of the fact that the parliamentary group supporting the Government has made a bet on all this that we are saying, this clashs with reality. It seems like a kind of declarative goodism, because we have the most important closure to the information on minor contracts, which this Parliament has already denounced. Or we also have before us that very bad practice of concealing the orders of the day from the matters dealt with by the Governing Council, which is a matter that we will be talking about for the longest and longest time next week. I believe that we will have the opportunity to discuss this law, and, as Mr Latxaga said, we will have the opportunity to contribute a lot to each of the groups. But I believe that the warning of this return of the transparency law and the regulatory law of the Basque public administration was an important warning and now I think it is up to us that, regardless of the work that parliamentary groups take to improve a text, the text has to come with all these things. And this is something that needs to be fulfilled, because parliamentary mandates, even though we then hold sessions to see if they are fulfilled or not, the truth is that many times they pass as the vanquished and leave no trace (the pigeons do leave, but the vanquished less). So, please, we urge the Government to bring in a law that is forceful, that bets on transparency, that bets on taking all those measures to avoid all these things that we so much talk about and are filled with our mouths, and that bring in all those contributions (our contributions and those of the rest of the parliamentary groups) and all the improvements that are being made today. For now, we're on hold. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u77	Thank you again, Madam President. To begin with the end of the speeches, Mrs Gallastegui's, I agree with many of the questions she has raised here. It is clear that, if he considered that in some respects the initiative was not very strong, if he had tabled an amendment to make it stronger, we would have admitted it. I also admit to the Socialist Group's usual desire to talk about debates in the Congress of Deputies; I admit it, as I also admit the medal that Mr López's Government has put on. With regard to the EH Bildu group, I am not going to disqualify, as he has done, the initiative for the group that proposes it. We could go in and not debate many of the issues that EH Bildu raises here many times if we do that, and we debate in principle all the initiatives. In any case, with regard to some of the points that you put in your amendment, I have already told you that you will be perfectly able to debate when discussing that transparency law or the rules that you have to do in order to avoid that political patronage, and we will discuss it regardless of whether you are presenting it and in some matters you are not entitled to speak. With regard to UPyD, it may seem to me very well all that he has proposed, but, let's, in addition to giving an apocalyptic view of Spanish democracy and Basque democracy, in which everything works fatally and it is a building that is crumbling... I do not think that is the case at all, regardless of whether there are many issues that can be improved. But, hey, I was much more humble in my initiative. I do not intend to change the constitutional and virtually global order. I am the one with which the law of transparency, and if not – and then I will go with the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party – if the law of transparency is not the right place, another regulation that was and is guaranteed, in addition to what has to be a law of transparency, which ends with something that also exists here, which is corruption and political clientelism, with that, which is what the initiative was about, I was satisfied, regardless of whether we then have to address another number of issues, which I am sure some are also in the process of being approached and will count on our support. To the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party I have to say that the truth is that, although Mr Erkoreka did an exercise in escapism the other day and a little too, as Mr Maneiro said, with that ability to twist the statements I had made, at least in some matters seemed to be more sincere than you. And I'll explain why. Mr Erkoreka has already told me clearly: "The law of transparency is not the right place. Not at all." You are presenting a compromise amendment – above all we have signed it – in which it seems that the transparency law is the place or measures can be taken. And now you come down here and tell me not only that, as Mr Erkoreka said, you are not very sure that the transparency law is the right place, but above all let us not make much illusions with the law. Come on, that's putting on the bandage before the wound! "Don't make yourself too many illusions or have too many expectations because..." Man, I illusions, not many or few. I have no illusions. What I want to see is done. It does seem like a change of attitude, although after your words I no longer have it so clear, that you recognized that there was political clientelism here and that it is necessary to combat that political clientelism. Because it's not about "And you more"; it's that what you want to do is "Not here." No, Mr. Latxaga: here too. There's corruption here too. And you, then, here in Álava, for example, can't do politics? Because, I remind you, the number two of Álava is involved in the Miguel case. Can't they do politics? Can't you talk? It's just that it's not a happy Arcadia, no matter how much they try to sell it to us. Because he has not referred to any of the cases I told him – just like Mr Erkoreka the other day – none. It is not the "And you more", which, of course, is not upbuilding and does not contribute to improving neither the policy nor the image that citizens have of politics. But what will not be admissible is the "Not here", when "Here too", as I say. Here there are cases of corruption, and many, many cases of political clientelism. And it's about arbitrating measures so there won't be any. You say that in other autonomous communities... Listen, talk to the political groups in these autonomous communities, and that the relevant changes are also proposed there. I'm here, I'm a parliamentarian from the...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u78	Miss Llanos, go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u79	Yes, I'm finishing up, Madam President. I am a member of the Basque Chamber and what I want is that in Euskadi, where there are many cases of political clientelism and always in that political clientelism those who appear as beneficiaries are positions, friends, relatives – and I do not follow the rest of the relation – of the Basque Nationalist Party... And of course contracts have to be made! It is that many times since the preparation of the contract, this political clientelism is already being prepared. Well, I, as a Basque parliamentarian, want the Basque Government to bring that law. And we will be vigilant if this from here, this purpose of amendment, was only that, a purpose of submitting an amendment not to be left alone, or if the Basque Government really has the will to put an end to political clientelism. We will be very vigilant, and if not, through amendments we will do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u80	Thank you. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u81	Thank you, President. Conclusions of the debate: In Euskadi there is clientelism and political corruption and neither the Basque Nationalist Party nor the People's Party want to move a finger to deal with that political clientelism. Annex: The Socialist Party of Euskadi, either. That is the conclusion of the debate. A clearly insufficient initiative is being put forward, which does not address clientelism. Mr Erkoreka said: to deal with clientelism, the law of transparency is not the right instrument. What amendment is being tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party to combat clientelism? One on the law of transparency. Conclusion: they do not want to fight against clientelism. Why? Because they are the beneficiaries of that clientelism, that's why they don't want to fight against clientelism. That is why the People's Party does not want to fight against clientelism. And that is why the Basque Socialist Party, however much it speaks, in view of the facts and its political actions in recent years, it is obvious that it does not want to move a finger either, because so far it has not moved it, in order to fight against political corruption, clientelism and friendship in the Basque and Spanish institutions. That's the conclusion. Because, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, what are you going to do? Are you going to vote for a transaction that seems clearly insufficient to you? Or are they going to vote against it so that it does not go ahead and another initiative that is much clearer and much more forceful can come out? What are you going to do? Vote a transactional that you yourself have said is insufficient or reject it, so much you speak and so much you say? Facts, not words, we need. And we have tabled an amendment that is sure to improve, because the initiatives that can be put forward to put an end to all this are almost innumerable, but here we are presenting a few that would be very good for implementation as soon as possible. By the way, to promote anti-corruption measures, in defence of transparency, etc., sometimes it is enough to look at the countries in our environment, that there are things that do them very well. And yet, here you want absolutely nothing to be done. What is intended is to deceive citizens a little bit, to pretend that something is done, but to leave everything the same. If not, how do you explain that you do not want to include a specific reference, for example, to the fact that the right to information is a fundamental right and to that end to promote the necessary constitutional reform? If not, how do you explain why you don't want to end the rigging? If not, how do you explain why you do not want to take steps to professionalize the regulatory bodies politicized and taken today by yourselves? Otherwise, how do they explain why they don't want to depoliticize justice? Because they're not interested in fighting corruption. Because you're clients, you're beneficiaries. So far they have done nothing and from now on all they want to do is act like they do something, but without touching anything at all. If not, why have you not included in the transactional some, at least, of our proposals? Why don't you ask for justice to be depoliticized? Why don't they include the professionalization of EITB, because here the public media have a lot to say? If you find it insufficient, why have you not looked at other amendments that we have recorded? Why haven't you included some of your points? Why haven't they devised a more ambitious transactional? Why are they going to vote for a transactional that's useless? To cover his shames. That's what you're going to do, no matter how much you talk about the Lopez government and I don't know how many more things, or the proposals you're going to defend, I don't know exactly when, to reform the Spanish Constitution. Facts, not words. What are the facts? Don't move a finger, so everything stays the same. Because you don't want to end cases like Michael's, Ibarzaharra's, Pinosolo's, Hiriko's, buying news, rotating doors, strangling, politicizing justice and so many other things. There's so much to do! But, obviously, you don't want to move a finger. Who has been the protagonist of the big cases of corruption in Spain in recent years? The People's Party and the Socialist Workers' Party Spanish: Gürtel, Púnica, the ERE, etc., etc. What have you done to face all that? Absolutely nothing. I do not intend to change the world through my participation in this Parliament, but a series of measures can be put in place to regenerate democracy, to broaden democracy, to improve democracy. You, logically, do not want to move a finger, because you are beneficiaries of that clientelism.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u82	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u83	We were told that there should be no illusions, and clearly we cannot have illusions. None, moreover, when we see the Dalton brothers, who are the ones who sign this transaction, and it is the thieves who go after the spoils who bring us the solutions. That's the example that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u84	I'm sorry. I'd like you to take those words away.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u85	I won't.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u86	I'd like you to take those words out of Lopez de Munna.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u87	No.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u88	You're calling the thieves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u89	No, I said Dalton. Follow the sentence, that phrase you read. What else did you say? Los Hermanos Dalton... So?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u90	They're going for the loot.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u91	So? I want you to withdraw those words.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u92	No.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u93	Mr. Lopez de Munna, please. You're reference to some members of the legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u94	What can't be is that every time that group can be called whatever the rest of us can't say... And it's more...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u95	López de Munna, please. Lopez de Munna, you don't have the word. Please, you called the other parties what you wanted, but you're referring to some congressmen. Stand back, please. Retreat, please, those words. You've referred to some members of the legislature, not to a party. You've been referring to a lot of parties and nobody has told you anything. But not making some congressmen. Wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u96	I retire. It is the parties that represent the Dalton brothers who today sign this transaction. It's not inconceivable. For all this...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u97	Lopez de Munna, that's enough. Please. I'm asking you, please. Don't take your hair from people, please. Don't go that way, please. [[Berber]] Please be quiet. If not, you'll go out too. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u98	Here we have been called worse things and absolutely nothing has happened, so I ask that it be the same for all groups.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u99	Please don't go that way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u100	Okay. But can I go on?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u101	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u102	- Valerie. He said that we cannot get any illusions because the Basque Nationalist Party, together with the People's Party, are the ones that sign this transaction, those parties that if they identify for something, one in the Spanish State and the other in Basque, it is because of the cases of corruption, clientelism, friendliness and everything that makes Basque society more and more alienated from politics. You represent all that. And, even if you do not allow it to be said in this House as it intended, society is quite clear that you are the ones behind all corruption, all corruption and, above all, those laws that make it impossible for the truth to be known. That's you, you're responsible, you're guilty. With which, illusion, none. There can't be. There cannot be one when someone is demanding the government party to talk about cases of clientelism, such as the Ardanza case, the Atutxa case, and then sign directly with that government party, because you know perfectly well that you do not aspire to get anything out of this law. And there are other groups that do try. There are groups that try to make something clear, because you do not represent transparency or absolutely nothing. You represent the darkest of public administration, you represent the darkest of politics. And I do feel legitimized, as legitimized as you are, to talk about what this group wants and whenever it wants. And if we have to call you corrupt, the People's Party, we will continue to call you, because your action – and so it is proving, even judicially – is that of a corrupt party and we will continue to tell you always.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u103	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u104	I'm out of my mind. It's not easy to talk now, but I'll try to answer, with some manners, the charges you've made. As I have said before, for this matter, I think that the Basque people deserve something more. The schema used so far, the schemes we've seen here, we can't accept them. We are not condemned to repeat eternal schemes, eternal refrains, that "Y tú más" forever, making a lot more and more of a public practice. The scheme of the "And You More" does little favor to political activity already plunged into discredit and civil disaffection. If there are problems, let us seek solutions, not forgetting that these solutions will come, they must necessarily come from the hand of politics. I would like to make a brief reference to some of the points made by Mr Maneiro and also by the ineffable representative of EH Bildu. Mr Maneiro shoots at everything and pulls by lifting, mixing issues that this Parliament has in its hand with other issues that it does not. For example, he talks about eliminating strangulations, when he knows or should know it's something collected...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u105	Hey, maniro, please, shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u106	... which is something contained in the Organic Law of Judicial Power. His party had a well-known representation in the Congress of Deputies and that was where it should make the necessary changes. It also talks about politicized justice, about regulatory bodies, etc. – these issues are not in the hands of this Parliament – but you have no means of resorting from time to time to that politicized justice for the issues that interest you. It also charges against all isms. And it does not refer precisely to pictorial phenomena, such as impressionism or Cubism, but rather against amigoism, enchufism, nepotism, clientelism. I don't know what else isms has said: all the other isms have been and have been. And you lead a way to stardom as an imitator of the ineffable also Paco Martínez Soria, in his role as Don Erre who errs. Regardless of the subject, you always talk about the same, about your subjects. With regard to Mr López de Munain, there are a number of maximalist approaches which, curiously, were not included in the foral rule of transparency of the Gipuzkoa Foreign Office last February. Curiously. The foral rule was limited to making a short and sticky of state legislation. Well, the old Spanish saying says I sell advice but I don't have it for myself. It gives me the feeling that they don't seem to say the same thing when they go out to the square as when they're in the palace. Let's do the story, too. You are talking about transparency being recognized as a fundamental right. You should know that these recognitions have to be reflected in texts of constitutional rank. It also talks about facilitating access to business registration to avoid corporate plots, etc. You should know that the business register is a public register. What do you mean, that the Basque Government should provide some link? I just didn't get it. In summary, that is why we support the compromise amendment with the People's Group, because it reflects the concept that active advertising and access to public information are the instruments that can contribute to political clientelism having difficulty in emerging and developing. But with regard to some of the accusations already repeated by Mrs Llanos, I will allow myself to read a press release. He is a senior prosecutor of the Basque Country, Juan Calparsoro, and says that there would be no ex-officio investigation into companies related to the family of former Interior Councillor and former President of the Basque Parliament, Juan María Atutxa, and he has asked the PP to report him to justice if he has evidence that irregularities have been committed. Mr Calparsoro says that, not the Basque Nationalist Party or Councillor Erkoreka. The People's Party urged the Basque Prosecutor's Office last week to open an ex officio investigation into the award of 200 public contracts worth more than €65 million, which it has reported has been carried out in recent years for companies related to the Atutxa family. In an interview with Radio Vitoria, collected by Europa Press, Calparsoro believes that it would be premature for him to act on his own initiative: "I think that the person who claims to have such evidence makes sense to take them to the Prosecutor's Office or the court," Javier Ruiz, secretary general of the PP of Bizkaia. "I believe," concludes Mr. Calparsoro, "that it is a serious enough issue, and the person who has given it publicity has an important rank...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u107	Go to the end, Mr. Lachaga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u108	...so that these things can go where they have to go, if you understand that there is a crime." With this in mind, the members of the Basque nationalist Euzko Abertzaleak Group will not receive lessons from any of the groups present in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u109	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u110	Thank you, President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon now. For following the order of the interveners, look, Mrs Llanos, it's not about putting on medals. All I do is explain the reality. The reality is clumsy and the evidence too. I can only see one fact. But, in any case, I thank you very much for your kindness in admitting so many things to me. Mr Maneiro, you have come here and the first thing you said when you spoke is that the Councillor, when he responded to Mrs Llanos's question, used a phony language and also changed the terms to say something that she had not said and that was not the same. Indeed, you do the same, because you are a skilful apprentice, especially from bad things, because with a very bad parliamentary tactic, not allowing you to answer Mrs Llanos or anyone else, you only do what you do is to devalue parliamentary activity. You're a very... Anyway, let's just say it's not too strict. You don't say what you have to say, you just say it in the end so no one can answer you. And to deal with political clientelism and to regenerate politics and to regenerate democracy, we need politicians to move forward. And not, like you, saying that others have no idea what they are doing and that you are the one who has the essence of democracy, the very best for the citizens and, above all, your electoral programme, in which most of the time, by the way, the good you have is copied. To Bildu. There are many things in your amendment that we can agree on. Indeed, we can discuss it. I have already invited you to discuss the issue of the recognition of the fundamental right to information in that constitutional amendment that we are going to deal with. What is also true is that the registration of the property exists, what you are asking for exists. And it would also seem important to me to see the possibility of creating a register of interests. But the problem is: What about conflicts of interest? Are they just cheap? Or are they also of a social nature? Because I am very sure that, for example, there will be many associations or interest groups or other pressure groups, which have nothing to do with economics, that they do not want to meet with Bildu or at least do not want citizens to know that they have wanted to meet with Bildu. So, let's be a little serious. And I advise you, paraphrasing that example that you have set, to take Jolly Jumper, to go down the meadow and go clean your den first, and then let others do what we have to do. You tell us about the Daltons, I tell you about Lucky Luke and his horse. And finally, the Basque Nationalist Party. The tone you use seems very reasonable to me, Mr Latxaga. All I want to say is that, regardless of everything, we are waiting, and I am sure it will be so, because I believe that, after a parliamentary defeat of this kind (in the sense of saying, "Hey, you, return this law"), and that there is an express commitment that I hope will be fulfilled (I am sure that it will be fulfilled), regardless of whether we have to make a number of improvements, the laws that will come to clarify the political landscape in relation to transparency and public sector management will be much better than they were. And then we'll see each other. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Middle Amendment signed by Euskal Populars and Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 51; contraries, 20; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u112	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. The seventh point has been retired. And the whole meeting breaks off until half-past three. It was two o'clock in the afternoon. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at thirty-two.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u113	Five point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced by Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPyD members, the homages of the Basque Council to the victims of terrorism. Discipline and final resolution. The guy who made the motion. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and get rid of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u114	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr. Lehendakari, good afternoon. 15 days ago, I called on the Lehendakari to explain at parliamentary level and to report on some of his actions and decisions in the area of peace and coexistence, which, far from seeking the delegitimization of terrorism, the defence of the victims or the defence of a true account of our recent history, sought and sought to entangle everything, to approach Batasuna and, ultimately, to defend the theory of political conflict. Finally the lehendakari did not respond and instead the spokesman of the Basque Government did. The truth is that Mr Erkoreka made absolutely no clarification of what we asked him, and, as a result of that answer, we have finally decided to register this motion that I am defending today. The idea we have with this motion is to censor the latest decisions, the latest actions promoted by the Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence and the latest actions and decisions of this Government with regard to the victims of terrorism. And, in addition to censoring, protesting and saying that we do not agree with those decisions and actions, we also try to include a positive measure that relates to the institutional celebration of Memorial Day. The truth is that I raised some issues in that inquiry. In particular, the meeting held by the lehendakari with certain mayors of certain cities of Euskadi. Its claim also relates to mixing victims of terrorism with other victims. Also its elaborate list of honourable victims and the celebration of Memorial Day. These are the issues that I dealt with in that inquiry, and it seemed to us and continues to seem to us that the Government's response was certainly regrettable. Hence the motion. And I want to say that all those actions, all those decisions that the Basque Government has put in place that we believe are not in the right line to delegitimise terrorism and to defend the victims of terrorism, we are going to denounce them in Parliament. That is what we have been doing in the past, what we do today and what we will continue to do in the future. That is our way of collaborating in building coexistence. That is our way of defending the victims of terrorism. That is our way of trying to prevent impunity in Euskadi. That is the way we have to defend the justice, truth and memory of the victims of terrorism. In connection with the meeting held by the Lehendakari with mayors of the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party and EH Bildu to supposedly promote the honouring of victims of ETA and alleged victims of police abuse, I asked the Lehendakari basically two questions and asked him for explanations on basically two questions. On the one hand, the reasons why he decided not to invite a party such as the People's Party to that meeting, which is one of the political parties that in recent times has suffered most from ETA attacks. And, on the other hand, ask him for explanations for his claim, which is maintained over time, to mix the victims of terrorism with other victims, or, as we shall see below, with other alleged victims. The truth is that the Basque Government, instead of organizing tributes in all the places where there were victims of ETA, has decided to modify the previous criterion and the map of memory to confuse everything, content Batasuna and defend the theory of political conflict. And we do not agree at all with this claim. We're going to do everything we can so this can't be done. I think it's easy to understand. And I am referring specifically to these two decisions taken by the Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence or by the Lehendakari himself: the decision to hold a meeting and to leave the People's Party out and the Basque Government's claim to maintain the line of wanting to mix the victims of terrorism with other alleged victims or with other victims. If we take a look at the listing that is included within what has been called the Municipal Portraits of the violations of the right to life in the Basque case, we can conclude that this listing is a real scandal. Presents 21 floors as victims. It includes some cases of suicide and half a dozen deaths from heart disease, cancer or other diseases. The authors of the report have ignored the existence of judicial decisions that have exempted State security forces from liability. Not only are they ignored, but they are deliberately hiding flaws from the Spanish, French, Mexican and Strasbourg justice systems, and it is therefore a real scandal. In addition to 21 years of age, the Basque Government, its Government, Mr. lehendakari, proposes to treat as victims workers killed in union protests and those killed with burdens from the Ertzaintza and the police. They include names, although the cases have been investigated and filed by the courts, including by French courts. People who died from natural causes and various diseases are included. There are certain actions of the Ertzaintza that Atutxa at the time or Ibarretxe himself defended before Arnaldo Otegi. It refers to deaths that occurred two years after police action, among others. This seems absolutely scandalous to us. And this is something that we have denounced by some opposition parties, namely the People's Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi, and also UPyD. One way or another we have asked for explanations for this list. And the truth is that Mr Erkoreka, in that inquiry, did not clarify absolutely anything and did not explain the reasons why this list of alleged honourable victims is thus configured. We think we must be very irresponsible or have very bad intentions to present a similar list. A list, by the way, that has outraged most of the victims of terrorism. A list that cannot be understood by the democratic groups of this Parliament. As I say, you have to have very bad intentions or be very irresponsible to submit a list with those characteristics. Therefore, with this motion, what we want is to censor these actions that are maintained too much in time, maintained and promoted by this Basque Government. We want to say that we do not agree that the Basque Government should act in that way. We want to say again that certain actions, and in particular those actions, do what they do is to promote the theory of political conflict, however much Mr Lehendakari repeats as active and passive that he does not intend to do so. If we respond to the facts, the truth is that in our opinion these actions encourage the theory of political conflict and give an oxygen balloon to EH Bildu. I mean, it's not UPyD that just does these approaches. It is other political parties that have come to say similar things in recent days. That is the reason, therefore, for the presentation of our motion. Only the People's Group and the Socialist Group have tabled amendments. The Socialist Group does not want to sign any compromises on this matter, I believe neither with the People's Party nor with UPyD; it is in its right and will defend its own amendment. We have signed a transaction with the People's Group. It consists of five points and what it raises is the following. We want this Parliament to see the failure of the Basque Government's Peace and Co-existence Plan, as well as the programmes and plans that develop it. This was already defended by the People's Group, the Socialist Group and the UPyD Group not too long ago, a few months ago, before the summer. On the second point, what we propose is for this Parliament to demand that the Basque Government abandon definitively its intention of mixing ETA victims with so-called victims of police or other abuses, since this strategy seeks to endorse the theses of the political conflict and benefits the positions of those who still do not condemn ETA. It is also something free, which has no justification whatsoever. We also propose that this Parliament deplore the report prepared by the General Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence called Municipal portraits of violations of the right to life in the Basque case and that it censor the lehendakari for this unacceptable and biased report. To urge him to order his correction and correction, taking into account the criteria that the associations of victims of terrorism have made public in this regard, and to demand the complete remodelling of the General Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence. There are precedents for bad actions by the General Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence. It was not too long ago that we also heard a report from that secretariat on the crimes committed by ETA pending resolution, a report containing countless errors, recognized by the Lehendakari himself at parliamentary level. This has or may have a single explanation, either not working well or not competent enough, or has a very bad idea or very bad intentions. On the fourth point, what we propose is that this Parliament urge the Basque Government to push forward all the actions that are necessary for the Basque municipalities, or instead the Basque Government itself, to pay tribute to the victims of terrorism in all those municipalities where ETA murdered, as well as in those from which its victims originated. We are in 2015 and we have not yet achieved an objective that should be shared by all the democratic political parties in this Parliament, which where ETA murdered can be honoured as they deserve the different victims of terrorism. Nor have we been able to do this, not even this wants to carry out the Basque Government. I could, but he doesn't want to. What it basically raises is that this is a matter of municipal competence and we think that this cannot be a matter understood as a municipal issue, but goes much further, and therefore the Basque Government could implement actions to carry out these tributes. And finally, a fifth point, in which we propose that this Parliament urge the Basque Government and commit itself to promoting an institutional tribute to the victims of terrorism on 10 November, thus regaining the original meaning of the Day of Memory. Only on one occasion have we been able to celebrate this Day of Memory, on 10 November, to honour the victims of terrorism as they deserve. From the following year, this has already changed, the meaning of Memory Day has changed, and what we have come to say is something very simple: we think that the victims of ETA terrorism deserve a specific tribute, and what better day than that Memory Day? This is, therefore, the transactional that I have signed with the People's Group, to whom I thank for its goodwill, willingness and contributions to sign this transactional and defend it in this plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u115	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Maneiro has made a presentation, an extensive presentation of what our initiative is. I will not be that long, but I will say that we basically agreed with the UPyD motion and we also agree with the whole amendment tabled by the Socialist Group. We had tabled two amendments to the original motion to replace and add to the original text. They've been taken over. So we agree with the text that we have finally signed and that we will vote after the debate. The work of the Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence of the Basque Government is regrettable and distorting. It's not objective or equanimous. It's a machine to build up harmful reports. We could say it's irrelevant, but it's relevant, but for the wrong and the pernicious. It is absolutely necessary to reorientate, reorientate, in that section of the Government, in that secretariat. The report referred to in the initiative cannot, must not contain proposals, projects for honouring criminals and those responsible for so much pain, as the report does. It is unheard of that the Basque Government proposes to pay tribute to the age-olds and murderers paid by a terrorist gang. This report is formulated from the most absolute equidistance and from the exaltation of the theory of conflict. In addition, this document is one more in a long list of imbalances, from looks to the other. That is what the Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence of the Basque Government is all about right now: those imbalances, those looks, those forgotten, those looks elsewhere. We also need to remember in this regard the work that the secretariat is doing on 8 May 2014, a year and a half ago, and Mr Maneiro recalled other agreements that we have had most recently. I have to remember that we also signed a transaction at that time, to which the nationalist majority logically opposed, the tandem that the Basque Nationalist Party and Bildu make on all these issues. At that time, some groups of the Basque Parliament urged the Government to make up, at that time, "a new team composed of people recognized for their trajectory of support to victims of terrorism that replaces those who make up the current Secretariat General for Peace and Co-existence and that has as fundamental objectives to ensure the reparation, memory and dignity of the victims of terrorism, to tell the true account of the events that have taken place, to care for the victims as they require and deserve, to do justice, to prevent the impunity of criminals and to draw up and agree with democratic political parties a new plan that delegitimates the history and totalitarian ideas defended by ETA and that develops cross-cutting actions that support and defend democratic principles and democratic coexistence within Basque society." We said that a year and a half ago, and in what the Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence has persevered, it is quite the opposite. I'm not going to stretch out much longer. Mr Maneiro has reviewed the compromise amendment. It is quite clear that these five points from our point of view are unequivocal. The first, the absolute finding of the failure of the Peace and Co-existence Plan in relation to how it was conceived, how it was initially promoted in the action of this Government. Check that failure. We do so and we have transferred it to your ladies and gentlemen through this compromise amendment. Require the Basque Government to abandon definitively its intention to mix victims, to do so in that way, which is a kind of constant obsession. We have wanted to recognize all, but to do so in the way that must be done, with the recognition that each and every one deserves; not in that magma, in that distortion of mixing, as it does and is reflected in point 2 of our compromise amendment. And it is true that the report of the Basque Government is deplorable. It is deplorable, and we want to see it in this compromise amendment. The report prepared by the General Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence, called Municipal Portraits of Violations of the Right to Life in the Basque Case, is not objective and cannot be, and is reprehensible. And, in that sense, we censor the lehendakari himself for that unacceptable and biased report. We're sorry, but we have to. And we have to urge you and we have to ask you or we have to ask you to order your correction and rectification, taking into account the criteria that the associations of victims of terrorism have made public in relation to the needs of these tributes in municipalities and in so many places. And, of course, demand at that point the remodelling of the Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence. It is clear that in all other matters, in all those matters of promoting the necessary actions in the Basque municipalities to pay tribute to the victims of terrorism, this must be the case. We continue to urge you since this compromise amendment. As we are also doing to ensure that this Parliament and the Government commit themselves to promoting an institutional tribute to the victims of terrorism, recovering the original meaning of Memory Day; that is an issue (we have been surprised in recent years and regrettably) that we demand. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, we spend a lot of time in this Parliament talking about Mr Fernández and his work in the secretariat, and all that time focusing on dissatisfaction and discouragement. It's sad, it's sad. It is a pity that Mr Lehendakari did not agree on this issue. It is a legislature, Mr Urkullu, lost in the demand for the world around ETA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u117	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u118	Thank you, President. It returns to this plenary a matter which should not be the subject of controversy, but which is, unfortunately, from its very beginning, because it was born with a defect, which is the lack of previous consensus, and without the clarity of concepts that require projects of this nature and scope, something that we have made known (in writing, by the way) to the Secretariat of Peace and Coexistence itself. And I am referring to this, to the Peace and Co-existence Plan adopted alone by the Government, which so few results are being achieved in the objectives it has set itself and which is giving so much to speak, and not precisely for good. Today's issue is motivated by the unfortunate gestation of the so-called Municipal Portraits of the violations of the right to life in the Basque case, elaborated by that secretariat. And on 4 September, Mr Fernández himself and the Lehendakari solemnly handed over in Bilbao to the mayors of 130 Euskadi municipalities where fatal casualties had occurred. It is, as the heading of the document, a document of the Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence – I read textually – "offered to the municipalities in order to facilitate the impulse of memorial actions and of recognition of the victims". That is their stated purpose: to promote acts of remembrance or homage. The problem is that this document, which is official (because it is drawn up by the Basque Government, has the backing of the Lehendakari himself) and which is formally handed over to public institutions, is, in our view, full of inaccuracies and creates confusion. It places on the same level some victims and others, in fact equalizing the victims of ETA terrorism with persons who are also victims of other terrorism or police abuses and who have been recognized as such, but who in no way understand that they should be honoured, because they are also victims and, in some case, some accredited torturer. And at the same time, along with the people who were victims of terrorist organizations (the various branches of ETA, the extreme right groups, the para-police groups) and those who died from actions by the security forces, it incorporates alleged violations of the right to life of confused authorship and others, as well as, in text, it says, "other cases that need greater contrast". For, gentlemen of the Basque Government, if they needed greater contrast, it would have been much more opportune not to include them in that document. The Socialist Group, and this is reflected in a question we have put to Lehendakari on this matter, has found that in these last three sections of the municipal portraits there are at least 21 members of ETA, not included in the Act on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Terrorism of 2008, nor in the decree on victims of police abuse and who died in clashes with the police or in other circumstances (in some cases, deaths from illness, suicide, etc.). On the other hand, there have also been cases of doubt or which have already been analysed with negative results by the Basque Government's own assessment commission working on the recognition of victims of police abuse in the period 1960-1978. And this does not seem to us to be serious or responsible, and probably not casual either. The Basque Socialists have already warned of this deliberate disorientation when the municipal portraits of the victims were presented to the three capitals. Already last July we warned that we understood that the map of memory promoted in 2009 was being denatured in application of the Act on Victims of Terrorism and that it had a very clear and assumed purpose by all until that time: to situate and remember in Basque geography the places where terrorism (the one of ETA mainly and the other terrorisms) caused mortal victims, in order to build a clear memory of what has happened in our country. A goal that is drawn with municipal portraits that put in the same niche dead of different nature and, in not a few cases, dead by a political motivation more than dubious as little, because cancer or the road, which is known, do not understand ideologies. Those performances are not new. Since the launch of the Peace and Co-existence Plan and its endless sequel to plans, sub-plans, programmes, studies and various initiatives with drug names. Therefore, because they are continuous and successive, we have to conclude that they may not be random, but they obey a purpose. And it can only be that of mixing everything, diluting, in a magma of various violence, the one that has more specifically developed in Euskadi: the terrorism of ETA and the terrorisms that tried to combat it criminally, that is, the terrorism that has killed the most, the longer it has been and the more social support it has received. The purpose of supporting the thesis that there has been a succession of conflicts imposed on the Basque people, which would start as little since the Carlist wars, and that ETA would be but an inevitable continuation. And we understand that it cannot be admitted, because it would mean excusing from all responsibility those who, with a self-governed and democratic Euskadi, killed and threatened with far greater virulence than during the Franco dictatorship, until yesterday. Mr Urkullu has on several occasions reiterated that it is not intended to equate the victims. It has even made self-criticism and purpose of amendment for the abandonment of ETA's in the past. We believe you, we follow you in that reflection and we agree with what you say. The problem is that what you say, in big words, is not what your Government then does through the Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence; and on many occasions, even the opposite of what is proclaimed. Socialists believe that all victims of violence, all of them, must be recognized and cared for. But a policy of memory – and that is what we are talking about here – worthy of that name cannot mix everything, as it is being done. A memory with which everyone is comfortable, which seems to be what was sought with these municipal portraits, the victims and those who supported or justified the victims, not only is not possible, but is also unjust and absolutely false. My group, Mr Maneiro, shares with you one of the assessments set out in your motion. But we believe that we cannot remain alone in the mere reproach, but that we must try to move forward, on firm principles of course, by reviewing the past without distortion, but, of course, with a view to a better future. That is why we are going to defend the amendment to the whole that we have tabled in a constructive spirit, because we believe that no one can object to what it says: The need to work from consensus, rigour and discretion to build our coexistence from the basic principle that no political cause can be placed above human rights and from the recognition of the injustice of violence and damage caused, as well as from the recognition of the dignity of the victims, all deserving of the right to truth, justice and reparation. The commitment of the institutions to the recognition, memory and reparation of all victims of terrorist gangs and police excesses that are so recognized, without any such action being used to advocate terrorism or humiliate those who suffered it. And the request to the Basque Government, its Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence, to correct municipal portraits in order to prevent the victims of terrorism and such recognized police excesses from mixing with uncontested or at least dubious cases, and to ensure that, in any case, the recognition of victims is accompanied by the delegitimization and express condemnation of the use of violence. And we do not table this amendment in the spirit of either polemizing or creating sterile discussions on an issue that we think is serious enough to do so. But I think that you should be able to do at least some self-criticism about some of the actions that you are taking in this area from that secretariat and that we sincerely believe that you do not correspond to the stated objective of this secretariat and the policies of memory.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u119	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing over to those who have no corrections, the representative of the EH Collector. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u120	Thank you, Mr. President. With your permission, from this side of the seat, I'll do it. In fact, I don't have much intention of getting into the real thing. Yes, but, to say and put it in value, there have been profound changes in a script that is commonly used for the last few weeks to talk about peace, partnership, political normalization, and freedom. And that, to put it in value, we may proceed from new coordinates or parameters, a deep dispute, in order to make a dispute between the several. These options, as I say, I want to highlight. We could have been here today trying another motion. Another motion, which, in addition to having other content, having another text, also brought with it other wills, other attitudes, another tone and therefore we thought it had another dimension. And yet we are again discussing a motion tabled by Mr Maneiro, a discussion of more of the same, a gateway precisely to the possibility of doing something different. A motion that leads us back to starting positions, to the exit box. A motion to retreat to those spaces of comfort, to those spaces of tranquility, to retreat to that discursive trench, to the warmth of our certitudes, but that serves absolutely nothing more. This is not the method. And we also think that this debate is not effective at all, because I do not think that after this debate there will be any victims who feel more recognized, who feel more repaired; whatever sign it is, I do not think there is any victims who believe that there is more empathy on the part of this Parliament today towards it. Hence, because we think that this scheme and form contributes nothing, we assert that our engagement between the severalties is to be found in agreements for peace, co-exist, freedom, or political normalization, between conditions and differences. We keep our hand stretched out. Let's take advantage of this. And since, as I say, we will not take part in this dispute, which is not useful, I say that we shall appeal to absceration in the presence of all existing positions. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u121	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u122	Mrs. President, Mr. President, members of the legislature. To tell you the truth, I shouldn't be in this tribe for long because we're not here to protect Mr. Maniro's obsessions and monopathetics, or to give Mr. Maniro andUPyD's obsessions. And just now again, and as often happens in the past years, there are phrases and proposals made again from the members of the legislature, from the members of the legislature. And we're not here for that. Mr. Maniro doesn't care what he says. He asks the president or whatever he is, and it doesn't matter what he answers because he doesn't hear. It doesn't matter what happens. He has his own prejudices already established, and he puts all his policies on this prejudice, and we do not agree. We don't agree with that attitude and we're also accusing him of it. I could end my interference with that. But yet we do not agree with all the points in which the motion plans. All of them. Beraz, regardless of whether we are not going to enter into UPyD's strategy, into UPyD's repeated strategy of manipulation, misrepresentation, deaf ears to explanations that are asked and given... Because Mr. Maneiro applies the maximum that reality doesn't spoil a good headline, or in this case a good prejudice. And you don't care what the lehendakari answers or whoever it is, that you, regardless of what you answer, will continue to maintain your thesis, even if you have completely contradicted it. So he has said that our obsession is to approach Batasuna, when Batasuna no longer exists for many years. But you are – as a colleague said to you this morning and had also told you on another occasion – as Don Erre is wrong about this. But it's just that, regardless of whether we're not going to share or dance the water in that strategy, which, on the other hand, we're quite tired of... And not just us. I believe that society in general, not UPyD, of course, but the monotheme that you repeatedly bring here, has it quite discounted, unfortunately. And our responsibility and obligation is to make sure that you do not forget and read correctly, but not by the way you do, Mr Maneiro. We do not agree with any of the points in the motion and that is why we are voting against it. First, because it is impossible for us to see the failure of the peace plan, when the peace plan has not failed, when the affirmation is not true, when the peace plan is working. All its objectives, all the initiatives put in place to achieve the objectives are working, they are being implemented; they are being evaluated satisfactorily, many of them by users themselves, by victims themselves, and by external evaluators. If we don't like the evaluation, we charge the evaluators, we end up with their prestige; it doesn't matter, that reality doesn't spoil us a good headline, Mr Maneiro. Parliament, you say in the second point, demands the Basque Government to abandon definitively its intention of mixing the victims of ETA. It's just not true. It is not true, however much you continually insist and insist on your prejudices. That is not true, and therefore we cannot vote in favour. The Peace and Coexistence Plan and the political majority in this House are defending equal rights in the face of violations of equal human rights and equal treatment for all victims. And that is the philosophy that inspires the peace plan. And it is not just a matter of philosophy; it is that for a few months now there is a legal mandate. And do not forget, Mr Pastor, that it is not a matter that would work in a way in 2009; there is a legal mandate approved at the request of the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, a law of the Memory Institute, which is the mandated body, created by this Parliament to promote, coordinate and plan memory policies in this country, and which makes a framework of what violence is being referred to, what victims are being referred to, what victims are being referred to and what treatment is being given to all of them. We just can't look anywhere else. We have a legal mandate that you and we have promoted, and that legal mandate is governed by the Peace and Co-existence Plan and that legal mandate is governed by all the policies put in place by the Basque Government. Also municipal portraits. Because it is not true, first of all, that it is no tool for the recognition of victims, because it is not a legal instrument for the recognition of victims. It is a tool placed in the hands of the municipalities to promote memorial projects. We're doing the same thing that we agreed with you in the last legislature in memory politics, we're doing the same thing. We are moving forward in those consensuses from which you, I do not know why, come out in your speech, because then in reality, when it comes to making it concrete (such as, for example, the most powerful instrument that can come out of a Parliament, which is a law), we agree on everything and we are able not only to present it, but to adopt a law. Therefore, nothing has been invented, it is false to propose to pay homage to members of ETA, it is bluntly false. And you can come down here as often as you want and repeat it ad infinitum, which is not going to become true for that, Mr. Maneiro. And the Basque Government is already doing what is asked of it in the fourth point, it is already doing so since the previous legislature, since the map of memory was boosted. And it is being done with the same criteria that were made in the previous legislature, which, according to which victim recognitions were being incorporated, were being incorporated into memory policies. To memory politics! So don't talk to me about mixing victims. By the way, victims who are already mixed up in the lists of the Ministry of the Interior, without the People's Party, which is responsible for the ministry, shaking for nothing, nor the pulse, nor the eye, even in the face of this situation. The Government should therefore be clear that we are committed to the Peace and Co-existence Plan and that the Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence has the full support of my group. And we are not going to validate the falsification of history, the falsification of the reality that Mr Maneiro is doing, and we are not going to participate in that way of proceeding in politics. The truth is that the Socialist Party's amendment offers us three points. The third of the points we do not share at all; it is clear that it is part of a false premise, and therefore we cannot support it. In the first two we wouldn't have any inconvenience. It's just that we've repeated it so many times! Not only in the rostrum, not only in expressions: we have already approved it. We have already approved it so many times that I only think about it: is it necessary to do it again? Is it necessary to re-adopt what we have already approved? Is it not trivializing it, as if it were in the end not a declaration, a solemn commitment, but a totem or an icon or an image that is soft as convenience comes? Frankly, I do not know how one can fulfil the first of its points, with which I absolutely agree in the sense of the need to work from consensus, rigour and discretion in the task of building, etc., if from these three principles of consensus, rigour and discretion one does not participate in the instruments created for this; how one can work, as we have done so far in previous legislatures and in previous years, from rigour, from consensus and from discretion if we despise, if we do not go to the instrument on which we all agree that it is a necessary instrument, that is the instrument of the presentation, which keeps under the cover of the daily referendum, the media referendum, the policies of memory and coexistence. Mr. Pastor, two don't remember if one doesn't want to. And everyone actually sees history from their point of view. I, who have been in this for a few years now, sincerely believe that two do not agree because at the moment you do not want to agree. And we may have made some mistake, I won't deny it, because no one is perfect and neither are we, even if sometimes we think it is. It is true that I do not believe that you are behaving with this Government with the same loyalty with which my group behaved with your Government in the policies of peace, coexistence and memory. And I would just like us to get back to that way of working, and I invite you to get back to that spirit of consensus with which we behaved in the previous legislature. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u123	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing on the answers, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u124	Thank you, President. Mr. Iturrate, you have it for everyone. For everyone except EH Bildu, casually. Mr Iturrate, we already know that the Basque Nationalist group supports the Government. Congratulations. The Basque Nationalist Party supports the Government of the Basque Nationalist Party, we already knew that. Who else, however, supports the Government in its actions in the areas of peace and coexistence, delegitimization of terrorism and defence of the victims of terrorism? Who else defends the government? Because you've started your intervention by attacking a server, trying to move the idea that I was here alone, defending absurd things. But really what is alone, even if it is a larger group, is the Basque Nationalist Party, because, having listened to the representatives of the Basque People's Party and the Socialist Party, the truth is that both groups, together with a servant, are constantly criticizing certain actions of this Government regarding the Peace and Co-existence Plan, defending the victims of terrorism and a long time ago. That's the reality. Who else supports you? Obsessions, what obsessions? Monotheme, what monotheme? Monothematic, a server or you, who always comes down to the rostrum talks about these matters? If someone's not monothematic, it'll be me. I bring this matter and I bring many other matters. In fact, I am involved in virtually all the issues, and of course this is a very important issue for UPyD and we are not going to abandon it. We will continue to uphold the democratic principles that we have always defended. So, monothematic at all. It is about defending the victims of terrorism and saying some things that, by the way, other groups seem to share. Mr Iturrate, what have been the political parties that have suffered most from ETA attacks? I suppose the People's Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi. Do you hear your speeches? Do you hear your demands? Do they come to any kind of agreement with them? If it turns out that you don't agree with them on many issues at least, it will be that some sort of self-criticism you will have to realize. You speak of the claims of the victims of terrorism. What victims of terrorism do you refer to? To those victims of terrorism who share some ideas of the Basque Government? That minority group, perfectly respectable, but ultimately minority? Do you share any of Covite's claims? Do you listen to Covite, who is the majority association of victims of terrorism? Because Covite, like other groups in this House, has been a very critical association with all the actions carried out in this matter by the Basque Government and have denounced the intention of this Government to mix some victims with others in order to defend the theory of political conflict. Does this just say UPyD? No, it is also said by the political parties that have suffered from ETA, and so do most of the victims. So, some self-criticism will have to do you. You come to say that the Peace and Coexistence Plan has not failed. What support does this Peace and Co-existence Plan have? Who's behind it? Does the Socialist Group support it? Does the People's Party support it? I don't support him either. With whom do you seek alliances? You say that this mixing of ETA victims with other victims or victims of police abuse is a pilgrim idea of a server. Other parliamentary groups are telling you this, the groups that have suffered the most from the ETA clashes are telling you this. There's something they'll be right about. Why don't you listen to them, either? And you have said again that the report drawn up by the Basque Government and Mr Fernández is perfect. For it has been harshly criticized by victims' associations! It has been criticized by the various parliamentary groups. You do not admit any kind of criticism. They're alone, therefore. Only you defend those approaches. And he says that you are pushing tributes to the victims of terrorism. No, what they're pretending to do is mix some victims with others. And it tells me nothing about our idea and our proposal to pay tribute to the victims of terrorism on 10 November, as was done in the first year. I believe that the victims of terrorism deserve at least one day of tribute a year. That does not even accept the Basque Government. And Mr. Arzuaga speaks of more of the same, of starting positions, of space of comfort, of discursive trench, of value for nothing... And, indeed, it is not effective. Obviously, our approaches are not valid for you. Our approaches are based on telling the truth, delegitimizing ETA, defending the victims of terrorism and defending justice, and it is therefore logical that you do not share those principles. To finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u125	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u126	... There is also talk of a paper. I believe that in order to put an end to ETA and to delegitimize terrorism, nothing needs to be invented, words must not be twisted, the auxiliary services of ETA must not be given a climax, it must not be wanted to seem sympathetic, let alone betray the democratic principles that one has always defended. Ultimately, what needs to be done is to defend the law, defend the rule of law and implement the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u127	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u128	And respect the victims of terrorism and listen more to opposition groups. Just what this lehendakari and this government don't do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u129	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u130	Thank you, President. Briefly also, to say, first, to Mr Arzuaga that, as always, his speech moves in sarcasm, in the most discarnate sarcasm. You don't stand out from the violence of ETA and come here talking about what you empathize with or what comforts the victims, that is, what statements they make or don't. It is a sarcasm, and that is why his whole speech is fundamentally discredited, permanently, on this issue. I've told you many times. To Mr. Iturrate. The report is a tool of the PNV to fit agreements with Bildu once again, and there are more than 20 in this legislature (I will tell you one day, I have them all listed). And, of course, he seeks the tribute to whom he should not be honored. That's clear. That is not said by the People's Party or other groups; that has been said by the media and said by the victims and has been said by many people, Mr Iturrate. And, in that regard, it makes no sense for the Lehendakari to make a speech in June aimed at the victims of terrorism in the terms in which he did so and within a few weeks he wants to seek or establish channels of honour to those responsible for the suffering of those victims. We do not care as much as Mr Maneiro that Mr Lehendakari should leave us out of some forum, some forum where he remembers these things, but we do care about the substance of that matter, that we do care. And that's what we told him and we'll keep telling him. And in relation to Mr Iturrate's approach to the Peace and Co-existence Plan, you know that that plan has failed, you know that that plan has not worked. You know that plan in principle was declaratory. He already had the positioning of the groups when it was carried out, but he knows that he does not have the consent, that he does not have the agreement, and that moreover, as time passes, the distances of the parliamentary groups from that plan are longer. And, in that sense, it is a failed plan, no matter how much you talk about evaluation. You have highlighted an evaluation of the plan at this time in the rostrum, an evaluation entitled Mid-term Evaluation of the Peace and Co-existence Plan 2013-2016. Final report, somewhat like the Contracting Party to Part One is equal to the Contracting Party to Part Two. That is what you want to do with language in this matter, to confuse us all. They're confusing themselves. What was that evaluation of that plan? That assessment of that plan, you know, the obsessions of the past: the central government did not want (the central government, the obsession of the past), some parties cling to immobilism (as always), flexibility of prison policy (we already know it), associations of victims, criticizing that assessment (the role of associations of victims). That was said the other day to the lehendakari, the evaluation was: Basque government, exercise of political responsibility (so much of the global government); necessary, ambitious, advanced, realistic, balanced, alive, flexible, participatory. That you said yourself about your own plan, and the finding is absolutely the opposite: an unbalanced, distorting and obscurantist plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u131	Mr. Barrio, thank you. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u132	Mr Iturrate, I have said to you and I repeat: I have not come here to confront you, because, fortunately, in the fundamentals in this matter we agree and I think it is good that it continues to be maintained. But please don't talk to me about loyalty, Mr. Iturrate. We, with all loyalty, from the minute one told you, the Government and Mr Fernández himself that we did not like the approach of that secretariat. We sent him our contributions and suggestions in writing. And, of course, you will allow me to have to reserve the right of criticism when something we don't like. And since we don't like certain things we're doing, with all loyalty and transparency we say it here. Because it is not true, as you say, that no tribute is given; it is the stated purpose, according to the plan itself, of the municipal portraits that are given to the municipalities and that it is said: "Offered to the municipalities", says the surrender, "to facilitate the impulse of memorial actions and recognition of the victims". In other words, to promote acts of remembrance and homage. Why is it done this way? It is handed over to the municipalities and left wide sleeve for each municipality to do as it sees fit. And if, in addition, a section is inserted in which mention is made of certain victims, that the plan itself says that they are of a dubious character or in need of contrast, a wrong impression is generated, in such a way that an equine city council will honor one another and another; or, better, we do it in silence and that everyone understands that we honor whoever seems best to him. And we would have liked the Government to have led that policy of municipal portraits and to have indicated what the clear guidelines are for a clear and true account of what is meant by these tributes and municipal portraits. Not that it is left at the dawn of each one: that the town hall of Bildu pays tribute and that of the other Socialist Party and that of the other PNV, and we are all happy and silence hides the shames of each one. That's not a clear memory policy. And that's what we wanted to bring us here. We have not brought this debate here, as you well know; we have not been the driving force behind this debate today in Parliament. But it did seem important to us to make clear what their position is, what our position is, and also to make clear what aspects do not seem appropriate to us. And it seems to us that you should at least reflect on whether what the Secretary of Peace and Coexistence is doing responds to the objectives that the Lehendakari verbally expresses with great force and which we applaud. What we do not applaud afterwards is what is then set in motion, supposedly to develop something that does not correspond to what was said earlier. That is our criterion and with all loyalty we manifest it here. And the first point, of which you say "It is that it is repetitive", you approved it in June, not long ago. Do not talk about repetitions. How many repetitions do I have to endure Mr. Egibar every time he brings us with Mr. Arzuaga or Mr. Arraiz the right to decide? Isn't that repetitive? More than repetitive! Even tired and boring! So, do you take courage away from him because he talks many times about the right to decide? Allow me, on subjects of broad consensus and democratic quality, to be repetitive on many occasions to put things in place.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u133	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Arzuga mustn't speak. Eubertarians. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u134	Mr. Pastor, don't cheat on me. Because you have started by saying that literally says the Portraits document that the objective is the organization of acts of homage, and then you have literally read the text and nowhere does the term "acts of homage" appear, because it is not the function of the document to promote acts of homage. And I said that in my first speech. Don't you see the same thing one goes out to say here, that no one is going to change their speech or their prejudice? Because I have spoken that the plan intends to put in the hands of the municipalities tools to promote memorial acts, not acts of homage. And you yourselves have shared in all the previous years the principle that it is not the same memory and homage; that there are victims, who are both victims, who have the same rights to memory, to justice, to truth and do not have the right to social recognition because they were, for example, in the example you set, torturers. Therefore, if you are going to hold a criticism, base it on something real, not on a fiction that you yourself have contradicted in your intervention. And then he says we leave it at the dawn of every town hall. But if we're doing the same thing you did! What was the memory map doing when it was pushed by the Lehendakari López government with Mrs Mendia, a councillor in that government, who, by the way, was constantly denouncing Mr Maneiro? Or not? Or were you not denouncing the López Government for leaving the memory map in the hands of the municipalities? But how are you talking to me about your will for consensus, your loyalty when you are denouncing to this government the action you have taken, leaving the map of memory in the hands of the municipalities? And you come to face this government that leaves the memory map in the hands of the municipalities, which is what you set in motion and defended? And they defended him with our silence and with our support. And we did not come to manipulate on any occasion in this rostrum, nor to harm the lehendakari López, Mrs Mendia, nor Mr Ares ever from this rostrum his policies of memory. Never! And you've done it. And, despite everything, as you have said, Mr Maneiro, although in the tool it seems that we are alone, in substance, and Mr Pastor has said, we agree. And that's what hurts me – and I was saying it to you before too – that, being in agreement with the fundamentals, they are using peace, coexistence and memory policies to stifle the government, to make opposition to the government, which we didn't do, that we were able to make a very tough opposition – and you have every right to complain about our opposition – but never with victim and memory policies. Never, Mrs. Mendia. And, I repeat, how do we work with rigour, consistency and discretion if there is no place protected from the partisan refirrafe? How is it done from the rostrum with discretion? It can be done in any other way, but with discretion in the parliamentary rostrum it is impossible. Mr Barrio, let you tell me that we want to be confused with the words, after the one you have linked to last week and what you have taken forward for a few words, is a humorous one. So, I'm gonna act like I didn't hear it. Moreover, it is so cynical that you talk to me about mixing and that we want to mix victims, when in the list of recognition of victims of terrorism of the Ministry of the Interior there are 21 members of ETA sharing the list of victims with all the other victims... Here it is, I'll pass it to you later. Six of them killed by the ETA itself and the rest don't, and share the same list without you shaking your wrist or getting red. Mr. Maneiro, building coexistence in Euskadi requires tenacity, integrity, firmness, constructive spirit. And you sometimes praise those values and also pretend to attribute them to them, but where you see tenacity, the others see stubbornness in your party and in you; where you see integrity, the others see integrity; where you see firmness, we see rigidity, and where you see a constructive spirit, we see nothing but intent to destroy. Because you in these matters, Mr. Maneiro, say what you say, answer what you are told, you have no scruples in lying, in falsehood, in slander, so as to support your prejudices. Yes, since we validated the theory of conflict, since we want to mix victims with victims, that we mix victims with executioners, all that. And you repeat it machaconically, but it doesn't turn into truth and it won't turn into truth. I have a persuasion and I think it's quite shared. I have to admit that you are aptly relevant, very relevant, I would say, in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u135	Go to the end, Mr. Iturate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u136	Luck or the D'Hont law wanted it to be. But you are already on your way to being politically irrelevant, here and in the rest of the state. And I don't know what the outcome of the upcoming elections will be, but most likely that bench there will remain here more or less with the same or similar representation and I don't think you'll be there. And that day, on these issues, this Parliament will be a little more decent, as you like to say. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u137	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. After the discussion, we'll vote for the middle-term correction signed by UPyD and the Basque Populars. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; the supporters of the 10th, the contrary, 27; the whites, 0; Abstations, 35.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u138	So we're not allowed to rectification in the middle of the line. We're going to vote next to the Basque Socialists' correction. Dots?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u139	For points, please. Lehenengoa eta bigarrena alde battik eta hirugarrena bestean.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u140	We'll vote for the first and the second. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters 50; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 22.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u141	Your vote wanted to be favourable. No, no, I said, he didn't. We'll vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 24; the contrary, 27; the whites, 0; Abspentations, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u142	As a result, the third point has not been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "Mution introduced by Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-UPyD members-about removing public television spokesmen. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and get rid of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u143	Thank you very much, President. Very briefly, because there is an agreement on this issue between the majority of the groups: among the Basque Nationalist groups, Socialist Group, People's Group and UPyD. So, I'm not going to stretch. We have finally signed a compromise that I hope will do something and that the EITB Directorate-General will take care of, because I think it is a good starting point; I think it urges that direction as it should, and I think it brings together the members shared between the different groups in this Parliament. It is a compromise amendment that contradicts some of the issues raised by the adviser during the inquiry I made to her 15 days ago, but in any case, the important thing in this case is that we have reached that agreement. What we are proposing with this compromise amendment is that this Parliament should urge the Directorate-General of EITB to do two things. On the one hand, guarantee the principles that must be fulfilled by ETB as a quality public service, that is, professionalism, information neutrality, ideological plurality and veracity. On the other hand, to include in its programming public television, both in Basque and Spanish, joint debates between political parties with institutional and parliamentary representation, with criteria of professionalism, topicality and information interest, addressing the issues that most concern the citizens, which is basically what I demanded in that inquiry made to the councilwoman here present. UPyD raised a parliamentary question at the time to the Director General of EITB on the reasons why the public television channel had stopped producing and broadcasting the periodic debate held during the last parliamentary term with the spokesmen of the political formations represented in this House. In response received on 5 May, the director general of the entity denied that the discussions had been discontinued, but the truth, as I explained in that inquiry, is that the data she herself provided contradicted that response. Only such a debate took place, in particular on 19 December 2012, when the structure of the entity had not yet changed, as the autonomous elections had just taken place. And since then there has been no debate among the parliamentary spokesmen, which was what I came to raise in that inquiry. We find it wonderful that other institutionally represented political formations can participate in these discussions. We don't have any problems; the other way around, that's fine with us. But it drew our attention that for so long, even years, this humble parliamentary spokesman would not have had the opportunity to parliamentary, to discuss, to discuss with such important people as the spokesman of the Basque nationalists or others. There was no such possibility. I hope that from now on it can happen; that other political groups, other political parties, may be, if desired, but that EITB will take the previous or similar format, where the different spokespersons and other institutional representatives can debate, and if necessary criticize, even the action of their Government. That is what we wanted, and I think this is at least trying to save with point 2 of the compromise, which is a recognition by the Basque Nationalist Party that this indecent Basque parliamentarian, in the words of Mr Iturrate, was right. On the other hand, in this first point we urge the Directorate-General of EITB to guarantee the principles that must be fulfilled by ETB as a quality public service: professionalism, information neutrality, ideological plurality and veracity. So far, EITB's leadership has been characterized by sectarianism and by being an instrument at the service of the Basque Government and Basque nationalism. We've denounced him. From now on there is a broad majority in this Parliament that again demands that EITB guarantee those principles which, at least theoretically, we all share. I'm satisfied. Interestingly, I have been able to reach an agreement on this subject with Mr Uribe-Etxebarria. It's something new. I hope that this agreement, in any case, can be implemented. That's our wish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u144	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, Congressman, good afternoons. If we take a look at both the original initiative and the amendments tabled by the different groups at the time of this debate, there is something that is absolutely clear, that EITB needs a thorough review and that all groups should take it seriously to work on a comprehensive reform of the public service of Radio Televisión Vasca. I say this because the proposer brought a point to the debate, which has to do directly with the guarantees of plurality and the responsibilities of those who decide whether or not the debates are organised and how they are organised. The Socialists to this reflection add another, that of the issues that are being discussed, because for us it is as important, as what people participate, what issues are being addressed, because plurality is not guaranteed only because all the options that deserve citizen trust are represented, but because we talk about what all the public representatives want, not what they want only the nationalists, which is what is happening in EITB. All these ideas are reflected in the EITB reform proposal that we tabled half a year ago and that we wanted to share with all the groups in order to enrich it and deepen the line set out in some of the amendments tabled. This is the meaning of the proposal that we transferred to this House last May with the initiative for the creation of a special committee to analyse, reflect and generate proposals for a thorough reform of the Basque public body of radio-television. A large majority of this Parliament agreed on the need to deal with this debate and, at the same time, to transfer it to the whole of society and the groups involved and to seek their participation. Because the motion we are debating today is correct, but from our point of view, it is short. As I have already pointed out, we are both concerned about the presence of views reflecting the plurality of this country and the issues raised in the debate. Socialists have been insisting that citizens want to hear proposals on how to tackle unemployment, how to improve the quality of employment, how to strengthen health and education, how to guarantee social protection or the right to housing. And these are problems that really affect society as a whole. This is what citizens say that they are concerned about when asked and this is perfectly reflected in all sociological studies. But EITB is committed to something else, to going another way. I hear a number of debates, both on radio and on public television, I ask comrades to come more to debates and the constant is that the topics proposed in these programmes are those that interest nationalism: the right to decide, mobilizations that have to do with demands from that part of society always in the same line. An example, because it is always better to set examples than to speak generically. Just a month ago, a new debate program was launched at ETB on a stellar schedule; leaders of political parties were invited. Well, in that opening program and with the presence of the highest political leaders, who are making decisions every day that affect the daily lives of citizens, the chosen themes were three: one, territorial question; two, Catalonia; three, refugees. The latter is clearly a social issue. But in a whole hour there was no talk of crisis, unemployment, social services, except for the express references made by the secretary general of the socialists, who linked each of the topics proposed to this social reality. But it was not in the idea that those responsible designated by ETB management believe it should be of interest to people. If we give an example of the weekly radio debate between the parliamentary spokesmen, it is clear that the issues proposed and, above all, those that are finally taken to the air, have more to do with the issues of interest to the nationalist part of society than with those that correspond, as I said at the beginning, to the interest that citizens show recurrently when asked. Socialists think that a public environment should encourage citizens, who pay for their service through their taxes, to know the proposals of the different parties about the issues that affect their daily lives most. I am not saying that the political situation in Catalonia does not have some information interest in part of our society, but I can strongly assure you that the proposals for job creation are of interest to the vast majority of Basque citizens. We Socialists are very busy and concerned, for example, with making proposals to create quality jobs, to ensure a decent life for workers, to put an end to precariousness and temporaryity. And we want to discuss this with the other groups and that citizens know all the proposals, and I believe that it is up to the public to disseminate these proposals and debates. That is why we say that the motion put forward may be timely but that it is short. These days in Spain is on the table the model of organization of the electoral debates in view of the upcoming general elections. We are witnessing a new controversy about who should be in some or other debates on public channels. For our part, it's very clear, it's all said. We are ready to contrast positions with all and commit ourselves to promoting by law the guarantees of plurality and neutrality. But, returning to the ordinary debates, our view is very clear. Yes, all parties represented in Parliament must be present. And yes, there must be all the issues that all groups consider of interest. This is to ensure plurality. In all the debates on EITB, and there are already several, there is a widely majority opinion in this Parliament, as it is that both the editorial line and the proposal and the treatment of the topics of debate clearly benefit the Basque Government and the party that supports it... And, I would add, the socialists in general. This situation is based on the principle formulated by the Jeltzale leader who had the responsibility of the public body: EITB is a means made by abertzales for abertzales. From there, a structure has been created in the dome that responds to this criterion and not to what should inspire the functioning of a public service. EH Bildu raises in his amendment a matter which basically raises the need to depoliticize the organisation of debates, and we agree with that, because reality gives us clear signs of manipulation and favouritism. And also, to illustrate this, I'm going to give you an example of how EITB's information is being protected or circumvented by putting the government in pressure. Last Tuesday was the news of the collection problems in this exercise. The Government spokesman assured that this situation could lead to cuts in certain public services. Well, yesterday the lehendakari is interviewed in ETB and in that interview, instead of forcing him to delve into a matter so important to our society, he liquidates the issue with a question to get out of the way. That is why, as I have been pointing out from the beginning, every parliamentary discussion on EITB reaffirms us in the need for us to take a look at how to organize the public service, to promote a thorough reform. This reform, which I hope we will be able to push, must have different levels and in relation to today's issue. We believe that those who aspire to lead the entity should undergo a public scrutiny of their qualifications, moving them away from short-term elections, increasing the required majority and, therefore, the agreement between different people. In the document we have presented to the social partners and to society as a whole, we propose to extend the mandate of management beyond a legislature, so that it is not subject to short-term majority voting, extending these requirements to the management team and promoting the internal professional career for positions of responsibility. The Socialists are convinced that this will be the way to solve these issues, not denying the reality, as the PNV is doing, listening to the demands of transparency in decision-making, betting on the plurality of participants and issues of debate in which all citizens are recognized. The debate is not over here. Today we will adopt a compromise amendment which we consider appropriate and which has an added virtue, such as the recognition of the need to abound in the reflection on which model of public radio-television Euskadi needs. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u146	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u147	Thank you very much, Madam President. And briefly, because we have a broad agreement in this House. I think it is remarkable, because once again, and since different groups have called it into question on numerous occasions, we have the opportunity to demand from this rostrum and from this House the leadership of EITB and the public officials of that house who work in the service of Basque citizenship, that they work to fulfil those objectives which set the course that this Basque public radio-television should mark: the principles of plurality, veracity, respect for pluralism, objectivity, impartiality, the defence of democratic values, which we have so many times demanded here. We have always missed an EITB at the head in the defense of those values, in the defense and in the fight to transmit those democratic values to society. We have to ask ourselves, without going into the budgets of the motion resulting from the interpellation in relation to that famous spokesman program, that I don't know the audience I could have, without going into a program model or a certain format... Surely, over the years – I think it was many years ago – the formats need to be revised and we need to think exactly how political debate can be facilitated in a way that is attractive to society. Do we really want to offer a public platform for political debate? We understand that it is. That the house, that EITB, must do it and that it is necessary to do it. Do we have to offer that platform for public debate, that platform for ideas? I think we should do it. Do we want it to have an impact? We understand that yes, it must have repercussions. It should not be put at one in the morning, it should have a format that is suitable for exactly what Basque viewers are waiting for today. Repercussion, that doesn't go unnoticed, that stimulates, not that it's a toast, that's what we all want. Have credibility; not that they go, I don't know what day of the week at night, the leaders (numbers one, two, three...) so that no one listens to them. I do not know what the impact of the last debate referred to by the inquiry resulting from this motion was. 20,000 spectators? I don't know where I read it. Did 20,000 spectators have that last debate of the political leaders? I don't know. I believe that we need to move towards a much more attractive approach, allowing reflection, comparing views, respecting pluralism and addressing topical issues. When we talk about respect for pluralism, we think that it is not a question of the representatives of each of the political parties represented in this House being strictly represented there, which is not enough. It is not enough to respect pluralism, it is not enough to offer Basque society a chance for debate and reflection of ideas. It is not enough, it is not enough that we have to listen there to the same retahíla, in a rigid format, of each of the political leaders. Respecting the present is not to teledirect the themes or the monotheme to which EITB is dedicated. Respecting today is knowing exactly what issues are worrying Basque society and not being permanently talking about what interests some. Political debate cannot be focused exclusively on the debate that nationalists claim. That's our opinion. The choice of topics, the previous reports. Respect for pluralism is not to give voice to each of the parliamentary spokespersons; respect for pluralism is to know exactly how these programs are contextualized, what are the previous reports, the totals presented, the previous production. The introduction of topics and subjects, how they are carried out. Even the opinion of viewers, or of incoming calls, or of surveys, that it is not known where they are taken from and that they are introduced in the middle of a debate. Respecting pluralism is respecting the ideas of others. Respecting pluralism is not to think that in this country, with PNV nationalists and Bildu nationalists, pluralism is already being respected. That is not respecting the pluralism of our society. It is not respect for pluralism to think that giving a voice to those who are not nationalists and forgiving our lives is enough. No, no, We believe that respecting pluralism is truly respecting the ideas of others, knowing exactly what is happening in our society, and confronting and allowing the different views to be confronted. Not that a point of view is handled as an editorial line of a house, in this case public radio-television, and the opinion of those who are not nationalists appears as a somewhat picturesque thing, sometimes Martian, alien to our reality or our landscape. That is not respect for pluralism. We believe in a Basque radio-television at the service of all, especially when we talk about political debate at the service of confrontation of ideas, of criticism of the Government. Respecting pluralism is not to think that when the government is criticized by EITB, the government of Madrid, Brussels or Washington is criticized. No, no, When we criticize the government in our Community, we will have to criticize the government of this Community, I think. When the opposition is given a voice, it will be true to respect that there is someone who governs our Community and that the opposition will have to have a voice. Because, if not, what voice do Basque citizens have when they intend to criticize the government's action in our Community? Our television is to give voice to the problems here, not to give voice to the issues that go well here and only to give voice to criticism when it comes to criticizing others. This television must be the television in which we debate things here and give voice to the criticism of the action of the Basque Government, not that it is intended to use this public radio-television to oppose those we are not nationalists, here or in Sevastopol. We need a television that allows us to discuss in a loyal, frank way, to open ground for understanding, for dialogue. Working for coexistence also requires beginning to change the ways and forms of our public radio-television. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u148	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u149	Good afternoon, everyone. For my part, we shall treat of those principles and values which, as the public media is, it ought to retain. And, to be honest, EITB has need of it, even for that and for more. And here again, if those who have taken the word in advance accepted it, I believe we all agree with the disturbing state of ETV. ETV is being the source of news at the moment, and is being a source of disturbing news. In our opinion, EIB needs a deep reflection, and we believe that as it has appeared here, and that we are not the only ones who think that we are, because they are getting more and more voices in society. There is a disturbing situation, but there is another factor, and we believe that there is also one who wishes to take advantage of this alarming situation to make EITB still more hurt: Those who do not believe in a instrument like EIB, or who do not see it necessary for the development of this country, as the instrument of the production of this people is necessary. We see the necessary EIB, because the instrument is indispensable in the course of this country. So we're not going in or we're going to get hurt by EIB at all costs. In the construction mode, we think we ought to be put into an proposed manner, which is why we are surprised at this initiative which has come to us today. Why? We all agree, as has been said, with a disturbing situation, but in the corrections of the four parties there is not a single correction in the answer and improvement of the situation. What's the reason for this initiative today? Here, as has been said, on the 16th of September, a program of ETB-2 was issued with some political representatives, and since Mr. Maneiro was not invited, we are speaking of that at this moment. Mr. Maniro wants a program for him and he'll have it after the middle of the day. That's the point. Maneiro wants a place on TV, and that's what we're talking about. And we do not say that Maneiro ought not to be a part of such a debate, nor do we say so; and in this sense, we think it too much to be said, who ought to be a part of it, and at the same time to be a part of it. It is well to remind EIB that it is necessary to reflect on the manifold political reality of this people, but we think it too much to make it a subject for plenon, to say something else. Corrections. Popular Party plans on the same road asUPyD, no contribution at all. The Socialist party, besides saying that the debates must be done, says what matters must be. Klaro, which interests the people most. I think the Socialist Party still confuses the public wishes and interests and interests of the party, but, well, it gets them in a jam. He says that debats ought to be done, who ought to be in the debates, and he goes beyond, and says what matters they ought to be. That's not what we're going to do. The expressions of good will are received, but again there will be expressions which will remain empty. There is not a measure, as I said, a contribution for what EIB needs. The Basque Country is a measure only in the amendment of the Collectors, one, in fact, but it answers to this reality, which, as it were, is received in other words and in its original initiative, because what is said is that EITB, in so far as it is a public extension, must guard professionality, objectiveity, neutrality, and such principles. Then we all seem to agree that he doesn't meet them at the moment. Then, according to this, we make a contribution, and the contribution is that of the news. We have said about the news, and do we believe that this point also gives occasion to it, how are they to be formed? Or how's the production of information done in EIB? The editors, the news directors, the news directors, and the editors participate. These are people chosen by finger. All these posts are chosen by finger, and, as its workmen have often said, and have often been accused, we believe that this must end in some sort. What we propose in our contribution is that the posts which tend to the production and treatment of information, which I have just said, may be fulfilled by means of the methods of selection which can be evaluated according to professional merit, because we believe that in such stations, where confidence is the only merit, trust is immediately broken, and trust is often interpreted even in inadequate states. And now there has been no such example in EIB. So that's what we're proposing for the moment because here it's said there's a problem. Mr. Unzalu used to say "revision ando," and so are we. We believe that even in society, more voices are rising, and we must answer this. It's a constantation: the audience is suffering from a remarkable decline, especially in televises. The number of ETB-1 audience is getting very scarce, and we're wondering if even the management of the board isn't using ETB-2's poor brother any more. The predication of the sedal spectators has become a principle which, when the number is greater than ever, understands the euphoria. We're being warned by the unions of the work policy, of the disastrous personal policy, but also of the informal routine. We have to answer all this, and we believe that it is necessary to start a reflection which will answer it. We formed a special committee in this legislature, and we believe that with society, together with society, there must be a discussion which the direction itself ought to take part in, in order to overthrow this alarming situation. When all this discussion is pendente, we may here continue to be plunged into disputes that lead us nowhere. Even to-day, it does not seem to be much more agreeable to me than the expressions of good will. We've tried our correction as far as information is concerned with what informal furrows are concerned about the production of Tripoli information, or rather we've been trying to correct a process that is quite incorrect in our opinion. But other parties seem to have preferred the surface, and we are all acquainted with the corrections derived from this surface. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u150	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the chief physician, all the members of the legislature, all the afternoons. One of the good people of my country, having listened to you and seen the text we have in hand, I think he would ask frankly: "And these have come to a middle-way text? Have they agreed? "I don't know. And not only that, but because the weighterga passes through Valladolid, here any subject seems to be capable of touching, any aspect of EIB, and I think things have their place. All these things which Mr. Urubuno proposes, we shall discuss it, no doubt they will have their place on this special committee. And I'll try to concentrate on the initiation Mr. Maniro has introduced to us, because in months and months and months, I've already directed this idea to all the parliamentary companies of Æcometa, which we believe EIB, that we're doing well in informatives, and that they do business in professional honesty, and that, in a wide measure, society of eupscala, is witnessing the reconnaisssance of society, because in months and months and months past, the novels of the ETV world remain the leader of television information in the world. So I tell everyone that I don't fully approve of all these manipulation contests. EIB is a media group with a public character, and is a media group, as we have said several times. And we have mentioned the nature of its ends in consequence: To encourage the eucalyptic culture, to inform me of certain conditions, and so on. But even a function, which we have not often spoken of, is perfectly consistent with the initiation presented by Mr. Maneiro, that is to say, to promote political participation in the Basque people. There is also a function of EIB and of ETV, of course. And that's why he uses some tools, media media and TV, that is today and today's informative days, conversations, reports, statements, debate programs. Such are the instruments which the Basques use to promote the idea of entering into politics. Generally, they're informative programs. That's why our parliamentary team agrees, essentially, with the initiation Mr. Maniro has introduced. That's why we agreed. And we think that it is well to organize disputes between all the political parties which represent the different institutions of this legislature. As far as possible, the chief physician and director of the EIB never denied that. They mentioned it and I also mention that there are other tools and Mr. Maniro knows them. But, having said all this, I think we have to take into account, and in the very transaction that we have signed, some aspects no less important. And these aspects relate to respecting the professional dignity of EITB journalists. Respect her. Because, fortunately, we have introduced criteria such as topicality, interest in information, professionalism (we could have put even professional honesty), which are the criteria by which journalists, in this case the journalists of EITB, have to be governed in order to fulfil their function of service, in this case of public service, to all Basque citizens. And that's something we should be especially careful about from here. All in general (any group, be it economic, cultural, social, political of Basque society), but especially parliamentary groups. And adding to all this that phrase of "addressing the issues that most concern citizens", obviously. But, to be clear, Mr Unzalu, the problems or issues that most concern the citizens are not determined by the Euskobarometer, not even the Office of Sociological Prospects. This is a professional work of the journalists (in this case, of the journalists of EITB), who, with professional criteria of topical and informative interest, determine what the topics to deal with. And that's something that has to be very clear, because it's because you don't resist, Mr. Unzalu, it's because you can't stand it. There must be a supernatural force that surpasses him, and whenever he comes down to this rostrum he gives some signs of trying to establish an EITB steering and manipulation that is absolutely scandalous. And I would say that it is worth it, because, among other things, trying to condition what is the professional work of EITB professionals and journalists is, even democratically, inadmissible from a Parliament and from a parliamentary group. You recently even asked the Counsellor to give guidance to EITB and its management. But are you aware of what you're saying? Mr. Unzalu, please. I deny you the greatest. EITB deals with all those issues that you have listed and stated, dealt with and you know it. What bothers him is that, in addition to those issues, which is absolutely demonstrable that he treats them, he treats others as are the right to decide, the new status, independence, Catalonia, Scotland, etc. That's what's bothering you. And I'm going to give you a proof that it bothers you, but also with the result you got. That bothered them in the previous legislature. We came from a stage that was marked – among other things, but two very important – by the new Statute approved by this Parliament and by the Consultation Act, also approved by this Parliament. Then the political debate became very important throughout all those years. You come to the Government and have the political direction to say: "No, no. Here the only conflict that exists is that of ETA, there is no other kind of conflict. So, everything's fine. And that also has to have a reflection on EITB, and EITB has to project it." And what did they do? They had the Gaur Egun and teleberris stopovers changed from top to bottom. We started with murders of not knowing what in Oklahoma and relegated all political information to the 20th minute, and if possible, soon. And the hemerotheque and the archives of this Parliament bear witness to that. But what was the result? As a result, ETB news reports lost their leadership and lost their primacy. That's true, Mr. Pastor. They lost their primacy by their political guideline that we should not deal with issues of right to decide and all those things that are so tiring I don't know who (to you, for example), and yet that was answered by society with a loss of hearing, so and so that ETB newsmen moved on to second position, they lost leadership. The late Pello Sarasola had to come to make a series of quite simple changes, change the stopover so that again the ETB newsmen would regain their leadership. And that is a leadership that is maintained, and it is maintained throughout this entire legislature. And it's no ballad issue, it's very important. If a means of communication has as its fundamental objectives to inform, entertain and train, taking into account the public service requirements of EITB, if in the field of information – which is not of little importance, is very relevant – we have been leaders for months and months and years, it is not to be scorned. And then we'll have time to look at other issues. For example, the field of entertainment, the limits that a public service has, the budget limits that it has and what other televisions do (of course, it's not my model, eh! Neither Adam nor Eve nor anything like it). Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u151	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Mr. Maneiro, in response, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u152	Thank you, President. I thought the debate would be brief because there was agreement. I was thinking of dealing with a specific issue such as the debate between the different political forces, and this is not that we have left our hands, but it has gone beyond what one intended. Which I don't criticise, everyone exposes what they consider. Mr Urruzuno does not follow the parliamentary work of UPyD, that is obvious; I understand that, because the initiatives of UPyD are plentiful. But this initiative does not arise as a result of a debate in mid-September where all political forces with institutional representation were called, except UPyD. It doesn't come from there. This inquiry was recorded on August 10; the motion was not, because it was debated two weeks ago. But it has nothing to do with that debate. We agree that there are debates between different political parties in which UPyD is not, we have no problem. What we were coming to demand was the recovery of an earlier formula; in particular, the debates between the different parliamentary spokesmen. In relation to – I have not commented on this before – the amendment by EH Bildu, I find what is proposed interesting; I would share it. But I believe that it deviated from the nuclear issue of our initiative and could prevent the adoption of what was essential today. I agree with many of the reflections that have been made, with some of the reflections that have been made by Mr Unzalu and Mr Oyarzabal. I share your thoughts on the topics covered in EITB. Indeed, that is monothematic: the right to decide, nationalism, prisoners. That is monothematic, that must be changed. And I also share his reflections on plurality, pluralism, and the need to articulate attractive formats for the audience. I agree with those reflections. I usually listen to EITB. I listen to and watch different TV and radio programs from EITB. For example, I like Euskadi Gaztea. I think it's okay. They play good music and presenters are nice. I think it's a program, a station that's worth it and it's fine. I also try to see other things, not just what is related to EITB, more than anything for mental health. As I am not a nationalist, I see not only these programmes, but I try to see different programmes to try to see different points of view as well. They draw attention, from EITB, to the issues and issues that are being dealt with, and it draws attention to the fact that nationalist Tertullians are the vast majority. But it certainly draws attention to one more thing, and it is that many of the presenters seem Tertullian, Tertullian nationalist, no doubt. And if you don't know them well, if you don't recognize their voice and listen to a program or a chatter, you don't know who the moderator is or who the presenter is and who the Tertullians are, because they all look like Tertullians, besides nationalist Tertullians. And, of course, that has to be changed. In recent days, new professionals – in quotes – have been incorporated, or are going to be incorporated, in the following days or weeks, all nationalists. That is the condition that appears to be that EITB requires new professionals to join the different radio and television programmes. They're all his friends, they're all friends of the Basque Nationalist Party. And it is not about incorporating his friends, it is not about some journalists with a long nationalist background joining EITB; it is about incorporating all democratic political parties and incorporating all the views of the different political forces and incorporating the different issues of interest to society. But you're wrong, you're wrong. And it seems that the EITB General Directorate does not understand these concepts and incorporates them into new programs that are announced to professionals – in quotes – who are all nationalists. Yesterday, Mr. Lehendakari was interviewed. He didn't put the presenter or the interviewer on the ropes. Certainly, you were seen very calmly, and the truth is that it did not give the feeling that it was an interview conducted by a professional or a professional to a president of government, but that it seemed to be rather a chatter between a nationalist and a nationalist. And that's not good. But it's not good for you either, Mr. Lehendakari, it's not good. And that, of course, must be changed. I could tell some more anecdote, but perhaps the important thing is that a transactional has been signed that captures some of our main demands. In any case, we remain clear that the sectarianism and the lack of professionalism of EITB must be eliminated. EITB must cease to be a tool in the service of the Government and all necessary reforms must be pursued to make this possible as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u153	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u154	And that EITB today is a sectarian instrument at the service of the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party is also the responsibility not only of the Basque Nationalist Party, but of the Socialist Party which supported and chose this leadership that we are currently suffering from.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u155	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Unzalu, representative of the Social Party, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u156	Thanks again. Mr Urruzuno said that no proposals have been made, that we have not made any proposals. I think we've been making proposals for a long time; we've been making proposals for months, years. However, if you do not have this proposal which we have distributed to the whole of society, which we have distributed to all the social partners, which is a new model for EITB, I will pass it on at the end of this meeting. I think your group received it in its day, but, in any case, I did it to see what our proposals are, what we want to discuss. Today it was a point-by-point issue, as I said in my speech, and on that point we have reiterated and stressed that what is important is the overall issue, which we want to discuss on the merits. And that is what I believe in my first speech to be clear, or at least I wanted to make it clear that we want to get to the bottom of the matter. As far as the issues are concerned, both you and Mr Uribe-Etxebarria have said something that surprised me. I am much more surprised by Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, who says that neither the Euskobarometer nor any sociological study will say what interests citizens. Well, I don't know who you're gonna ask to know. Sociological studies precisely what they do is ask citizens to see what are the issues that concern them most, that is a scientific way of doing so. Now, if you have another... You usually have very brilliant ideas. Let's see if you have any other people's views on the issues they're interested in. Any of them. I have one here who says that what matters most to people, what interests them most, is unemployment; that the second issue is economic repercussions, that's what he says. And yet, the issues of the right to decide come in almost the last place, worrying a very small percentage of our population. And we don't want to impose any issues. Of course, we are much more interested in these issues. We are more interested in solving unemployment, we are much more interested in solving economic problems than others, and we do not waste time, like you, on seeing the new political status. We'll have to push what's there, but we're not worried. We are much more concerned and we are much more concerned with those problems that are affecting the whole, as I told you, not part of society. Because, Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, talking about Scotland or talking about the right to decide, or talking about the new status, as you said, can be interesting on time. But what is happening – and let us ask anyone here who goes to the debates – is that they are repetitive, that they are constant and that is that they do not correspond, because if 90% of the issues are those and 10% are of an economic nature, we are turning to the interests of citizens. And that's what I've said: it's not about imposing on anyone the issues, it's about picking up the things that most affect people who are having a bad time, that most affect people who are suffering from the crisis, who are suffering from the precariousness that exists. And, in any case, Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, you have signed a compromise amendment that urges the EITB leadership, among other things, "to include in its programming, both in Basque and Spanish, joint debates between parties with institutional and parliamentary representation, with criteria of professionalism, topicality and information interest, addressing the issues that most concern citizens". You urge the address to do so. It means that you don't, that you recognize yourself that you don't. No, no. You have signed that you urge it to be done, you are not very clear that that is done. I, when I signed this amendment, have made it clear that we are urging the leadership because it does not, because it has to. And you did the same thing. I mean, I don't know if he's confused or we're talking about different things.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u157	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u158	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, we had an agreement, but it is logical that everyone here defends their positions. Bildu has not signed this agreement, all the others have, and I am glad that the PNV has signed an agreement, because I believe he is fully aware that Basque society needs a more competitive public radio-television, but also, and above all, much more concerned about those values, those aspects of which we spoke before. Bildu didn't sign it because he was missing concrete measures, he was telling us. I do not think this House has to devote itself to giving EITB management the precise format or the specific guidelines that professionals have to decide. What I found to be serious about the intervention of the representative of Bildu is that what he has told us – and it is really important and what they believe – is that they want a television at the service of their political project, of Basque independence, of the breakdown of our frameworks of coexistence and, finally, of the construction of that political project. That's the TV you want, a public TV... And it says it here and it doesn't matter. And that's what's really serious, that we have to endure that that's their conception of what should be EITB. And the bad thing is not that you say it, but that many professionals in the house think about it, by calling them in some way. It's true that many professionals in the house think so, and they think that's their function in there. And I believe that that is the serious thing, and that the responsibility of the government and the responsibility of the PNV, the responsibility of the management of EITB today is to counter those who, from a sectarian way of understanding the media at the service of their ideology or their political project, do not understand what must be a democratic public radio and television today. I understand that the signature of the Basque Nationalist Party in this amendment indicates that they understand that their work, their responsibility is to counter those who believe that Basque public television has to be at the service of some and that they understand that it is a television at the service of all. And that we must work and that we must work every day to make that radio-television a television and a radio at the service of society as a whole. I am convinced that there are many things to discuss and certainly many points of view in dealing with this debate, and certainly many things to disagree with. But it seems to me essential that we agree on a majority, that we agree that there is something to be done. And there is also something to do not only to defend those values on which Basque public television, the EITB, must be based; to defend those values, but also because we want a Basque radio television with which a majority of society can feel identified. I don't feel identified. Mr Gorka Maneiro is very much aware of what is happening in EITB, I am little; I, like almost 90% of Basque society, am little aware of what is happening in EITB, it is true. I thought we wanted a Basque radio and public television with a Basque service channel, for promotion. We wanted a Basque public radio-television of proximity to talk about the things that happen here, so that, if there are some institutions here, let's make criticism here, opposition... To criticize the PP the Basques have 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6... EITB, what can you do? Criticise the PP? We thought it had to be used for more things. We believed that EITB had to be an instrument and we continue to think that EITB should be an instrument, it is essential that it be an instrument, in the construction of our coexistence, in the defense of a country in which everyone's ideas are respected, of a community in which everyone is respected. Respect for all is respect for everyone's ideas on an equal footing, respect for pluralism. A television that can really be used to convey that this society is not what these gentlemen want it to be. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u159	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u160	Very short. I wasn't going to come down here on this second shift, but after Mr. Oynor told me to do an excuse. I did not say that we understand EITB as an instrument to our political project, but I have said that we understand this people as a tool for their own production. And I believe that in the law of its origin, if you have read, some ends are very well fixed, and we agree with these ends. And one of EIB's most important ends (and even if they have passed more than thirty years, we think it must be done), is to help them in the succession of the cradle, and in the normalization of the cussa. That's what you need EITB for. And there are other ends, which are well established in the law of generation, and one is the political cohesion of this people, and we also believe that it still has something to do with it. And we think EITB is necessary in that. And I'll tell you even more. We think you're trying to fuck this up, because at last your referenced frame isn't here, but because it's found in another place in Spain. But I'm not getting into it anymore. Only to highlight and value the virtue and value of this medium of which you will here today agree. "UPyD, as I have said, wants a place for him in the debates, and therefore he insists that there should be spokesmen of all the parliamentary groups. The EAJ includes in the same case the party with the institutional delegation, right? And in doing the clarro, which is the middle way, Maneiro says: "No, not representation, because I can stay out of it," and then both of them, the spokesman of parliamentary groups. All right. So what's going to happen today is that instead of having a five-fifth debate, there's a 10-year-old debate in ETB. And if the debate is boring with five people, you'll say ten, another reason to change channels or go to bed faster. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u161	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. In conclusion, Mr. Uribe Housear, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you, Mr. President. That's why I say it's a pretty balanced proposition, because that's what it says, but then, luckily, even the professionals will be able to arrange it. The professionals will organize the debates, and with these conditions: there is an informative interest, there is actuality also, and there is professionality. Don't worry, I know it's boring to be five, six, or seven, but I don't think there'll be ten. I agree with Mr. Oyarzabal. I think that's the vocation and that's what we want and that's what we want. But on taste there are colors... And to me too have come voices saying (I did not see it, because I had other things to do, I will see it in Nahieran) that the presenter had been rigorous and harsh. Yeah, I was told. Therefore, everyone can see it as convenient. I mean, from there, there's nothing written about tastes and opinions are colors. Mr Unzalu, we are interested in all the news, absolutely all of us, and we believe that EITB, with a professional point of view, does what it does is proportionally reflect in its media and transmit to the service of Basque public opinion today, news of information interest, with the best professional honesty that they can. I don't know if I'm kidding or if I'm serious. If you were head of the EITB political section, what would you do every day when you got there at 9:00 in the morning? Call Mr. Llera to see what topics he was going to introduce on the Teleberri or Gaur Egun stopover? What was I going to do? The Euskobarometer is a study that is carried out, if I remember correctly, every six months; the sample and everything, we can discuss... So, for you, it's the Bible? That no, that the information professionals are trained for that, to work with professional honesty, to detect what is today, what is facts of information interest, and can contribute to the good development of the citizens to whom they address, because at their service they are. It seems very important to me, and I am very serious about it, Mr Unzalu, that we must understand the basics and the essence of the journalistic profession, because, if not, huge mistakes can be made, huge mistakes can be made in trying to steer that work. You have to understand her very well. And I'm not telling you that you have to do the career, but please, a little respect for EITB professionals in their work, which is a complicated job, a job of great responsibility, and they have to work for society as a whole. You have to respect them. We have to respect them all, but especially us. I end up paraphrasing... Mr. Maneiro said he sees the radio. Paraphrasing Saint-Exupéry a little, I would say that the essential is invisible to the eyes, and that if it is not with the heart, things do not look well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u162	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. End of discussion, we'll vote for the UPyD, the popular team of Euskal Socialists and the media that the eubertarians have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 52; counters, 0; white, 0,0; abstain, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-15.u163	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and forty-two.
