ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "The bill of law made by the Populous People of Euscal Act, and the organization of the Ar intermediary. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we'll go straight to the discussion without having to read it. On the side shift, who's going to participate? Madam Quiroga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u1	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. The institution of the Ararteko is undoubtedly one of the best valued, not only by the citizens, for their defence of their interests vis-à-vis the Administration, but also by this House, by the Parliament itself, to which it assists...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u2	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u3	... He assists with the preparation of his reports, in which he reflects the reality on the issues of today. It is only necessary to look at the last report presented by Ararteko to this House to realize his activity and the reflection that this has on the day-to-day life of Basque society. However, all this work that has been carried out knows that it has been at the expense of a remarkable increase in staff, which our group cannot take for granted, and less in the current situation of need, in that need to reduce expenditure, and especially in that chapter. We know and are aware that in recent times there has been a controversy over the approval of the Ararteko budget, because we considered – and, of course, from our group, we expressed this at the last committee session in which the budget of this House was approved – that there are too many reliable staff in the institution of the Ararteko that it would be necessary to review, evaluate, to see if it is balanced in relation to the functions that the institution has. At that session, the People's Party expressed its intention to propose a legal reform, because what we did realize was that it should be the institution itself, the Parliament, that dealt with that legal reform. We should not leave it in the hands of the Ararteko, but it should be this institution, on which it depends, to deal with that reform and to order what was happening so far in a disorderly manner. Especially because what was happening, from our point of view, is that the good work of Ararteko, the good doing of Ararteko, which I believe has had a very important impulse in the last time, was tarnished by a controversy about its internal organization. The People's Party therefore committed itself to submitting a legal reform, a proposal for a legal reform of the Ararteko Act, and that is the one that initially motivated the submission of this bill. Our proposal, in this proposal for a law, is that the internal organization regulations of Ararteko be put to the vote within the Committee on Institutions and the Interior. That is to say, it is Ararteko himself who makes a proposal for a regulation that is analysed and voted on in the Committee on Institutions and the Interior of this Parliament, so that in this way it is endorsed by that majority of Parliament and we can close this controversy which certainly does not benefit the institution of Ararteko. However, when we were drafting this legislative reform, we were aware that work had already been done in Parliament in 2006, a paper that was opened in this Parliament analysing the possible reforms that Ararteko needed in order to strengthen its independence and effectiveness in carrying out its mandate. That paper was working between 2006 and 2008, and in 2008, when it had already drawn up an opinion that became a proposal for a law with concrete proposals for amendments, it did not see the light in this Parliament, it did not come to debate in this Parliament, because the legislature was over. And, with all due respect for the work done by that paper, we wanted to gather those conclusions, that legislative reform that was adopted and that was agreed by a majority in this House. We wanted to collect it in this bill. Because we considered that those reforms that were being proposed were timely, that they could also give rise to their debate within the presentation that we hope will be created after the adoption of this bill, and that it could also be the opportunity, for the moment that we find ourselves, in that step from one arteko to another, with the next appointment, if any, of a new arteko, that it can begin to work with a new legislation, in new circumstances that can facilitate that work, which, at the end of the day, is what we are looking for with this bill. That is, that the institution of Ararteko has a regulation that benefits its work for society in its independence. By summarizing briefly what this proposed law contains, we can divide it into three blocks, as they have been able to read in the proposed law. A first block which refers to the direct election by Parliament of the person occupying the adjunct, with the same procedure as that required for the arteko. A second block of amendments dealing with issues affecting the status of functions, rights and powers of the Ararteko, such as those relating to objectivity and impartiality in the functioning, legal regime, direct access to administrative files..., something that is already being done, as the report rightly recalls, de facto, but which is not explicitly reflected in the very law regulating the Ararteko. And a third block that would already be more enlightening technical changes, in the face of possible gaps or interpretations of the current law. However, the legislator intended to contribute to the strengthening and better functioning of the Ararteko institution; ultimately, to the increase of citizens' guarantees. As I say to you, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is the right time to present this proposal for a law, not only to avoid the controversy that was constantly taking place over the over-dimension of the Ararteko institution itself, with those thirty-eight persons who are appointed, of free designation, which seems to us to be excessive, and which in any case deserves to be turned around and which is precisely this institution, Parliament, which, through the Committee on Institutions and the Interior, can analyse that regulation and give that approval. We also believe that this is the perfect time for what I was saying: because a new stage is opened with a new arteko...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u4	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u5	... in the coming dates, which can facilitate your work in the coming years and give you a guarantee and stability that is necessary for this institution. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I wanted to transfer you. As far as I've been able to get to know, this bill will come forward. And, beyond the debates that we can establish here, or that everyone can give their views in this House, I think it will be in that paper that is created from today where we can work. I hope that we will do so quickly enough so that the times are accompanied and that the new Ararteko will also have new legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. No one must participate in the reverse shift... No second answer shift... Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for it. How many are there? Are they nearly there? There's three left. The vote doesn't change, but is it about to get there? I've been told that only three of them are missing and all three of them don't change their vote. But if they're coming, we'll wait... Ba, bozketa gabe, explanation of vote. There is an explanation of vote now! [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u7	What I'm saying is that I have to explain my vote without voting yet... I would therefore propose that, if the votes are left for the end of the morning because of the absence of some Members of Parliament, we also make the explanation of vote at that time, if necessary. Not now!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u8	Again we did the first explanation of vote and then we voted despite... Some other time. But it's not a big deal either. (Berbotsa) Explanation of vote. Cool, it's your turn. Sweeping hitza.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u9	Yes, thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Although we have not yet voted, it is also time to announce that in my particular case I will abstain. And we are going to abstain or I am going to abstain because voting in favour would mean that we validate the institution of Ararteko, and we certainly have serious doubts whether we should not abolish it. At least we consider it essential to reflect on this possibility and to explore possible alternatives. I believe that this debate should also take place in the coming months, in the coming years. The current budget of Ararteko amounts to EUR 4.5 million; the budget has risen from EUR 3 million to EUR 4.5 million in recent years, i.e. it has increased by 50 % in the last decade. The workforce has increased over this time by 25%: from 40 to 50 workers. In particular, the staff are trained today four people in the management team, two assistance, assistance to the assistant, seventeen technical advisers, three heads of the citizen care offices...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u10	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u11	...and twenty-one administrative services. The Ararteko, which is suffocated, has a salary of 86,000 euros. I mean...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u12	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u13	The Ararteko, which is suffocated, has a salary of 86,000 euros. In other words, it currently charges more than the President of the Government. The salary of other employees of the institution is also extraordinarily high. The Ararteko has dozens of advisors, thirty-one advisors, and reliable staff, including a driver, reach the seventeen officials. Throughout this time the number of complaints has multiplied by three, and the files have grown by 123 %. The Ararteko to this day produces extraordinary reports, drafts general recommendations, conducts all kinds of studies, and holds multiple meetings with associations and administrations. The questions we want to ask, so that they can at least be used for reflection, are as follows: Is it necessary for this institution to draw up all the extraordinary reports it prepares or drafts all the general recommendations it has usually been drafting? Is there no alternative to such an institution? Is it necessary for each autonomous community to have its own defender of the people? Is it essential that certain municipalities also maintain similar figures? Is there no alternative to what we have? And, in any case, we are thinking of an alternative that, obviously, could work in the best possible and best way than the current institution has worked. We propose some alternatives. One possibility is that the national defence office will be maintained and that it will have delegations in the various autonomous communities, as the Spanish Government itself has recently proposed. A report prepared by the Government of Spain itself was carried out, at the impulse of the Government of Spain, which expressly stated that 30 million euros per year would be saved in total if the defenders of the autonomous people were suppressed and if that work was carried out by the national defender's office. I think it is certainly a rigorous study, which we should at least bear in mind. Since its primary function is to safeguard citizens' rights in the face of abuses of authority and power and the negligence of the Administration, another option could be a parliamentary commission, of the kind that has been set up in Asturias, a committee of petitions of the regional parliament to carry out this work. After all, this is the work of the citizens' representatives: to defend their interests against possible abuses by the Administration. And, of course, improve parliamentary and political representatives' work, promote new transparency measures, allow more citizen participation, make the institutions work better – let us not forget that Ararteko fundamentally responds to citizen complaints – and, of course, that justice works better, in a more agile way, and that it is more independent. These are the possible alternatives that we propose to what exists today. Having said that, I have to acknowledge and say that the proposal for a law put forward by the People's Group raises a number of amendments that we see well. In view of the fact that this Parliament does not intend to abolish this institution, what the People's Party is proposing is that they are appropriate amendments. In particular, the direct election by the Basque Parliament of the person occupying the adjunct, that the complaints can be answered within twenty days, or that it is the Parliament that approves the internal rules of procedure of the body, seems to us to be interesting amendments. But we want, I say, to open a new debate. If there are no alternatives to the institution, and better alternatives, so that citizens can be better served...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u14	Mr. Maniro, end it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u15	... and feel better represented, at least it is necessary, we think, to open that debate. I conclude by saying that, in any case, taking into account this proposal for a law, we will make all the contributions we consider to make the institution more efficient and work better. And, of course, as long as it continues to exist, it is essential to reduce its structure and resize it...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u16	Thank you, Mr. Maniro...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u17	... to reduce the number of advisors and reliable staff. That's what we're going to keep defending. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u18	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u19	Yes, if I may, from the seat. I will be a little shorter than Mr Maneiro, because this is an explanation of vote. We have voted, or will vote, in favour of the consideration; something else will be the position we maintain when it is finally discussed. After all, it is an institution emanating from this Parliament, which, after twenty years, obviously needs an update. It is well that we are launching an analysis and study of this update; it is well that, in the face of the Government's legislative inactivity, it must again be a parliamentary opposition group that presents this initiative, and it is well that it is precisely the People's Party, almost surprisingly, because it has not been two years since Mr Rajoy announced his intention to dissolve all the defenders of the autonomous people. We think that Ararteko plays a very important role in our society; that it has possibilities for improvement, and in that we will be. But I believe that the economic argument, which is the one that is being made, cannot be the element that is put on the table to justify its disappearance. Because, according to that same argument – expressed, by the way, in the rostrum by Mr Maneiro – we could also dissolve all the autonomous governments, because we would certainly save a lot more than by dissolving the Ararteko. This is a conception of the state that we do not share at all, and therefore our idea is to strengthen the role of Ararteko and correct those inequalities. That has been our intention in giving the approval to this consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u20	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Aguirre, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u21	Thank you, ma'am. The Populous Party in 2008 represents the legal proposal granted to the Board of Organization, in words, it has not changed at all, although many circumstances have changed since then to-day. However, the Basque Country Group will vote for their approval. The Basque Country is very sure of its bet: Support for tracking the circle figure. In general he defends what he does, and considers the institution as necessary and useful. We also consider the citizen's rating, for he is well rated. We believe that in the presence of other institutions it is necessary to remain independent and to penetrate into this. We also believe that it is necessary that the person who will guide the organization should be consistent. We also believe it must be eroscala. We believe also that he must be brave, and really independent, who will not be subject to different governments, who will work for the people's rights. We bet on the continuity of the figure of the Ararteko, we defend its activity globally, and we believe that it is a useful and well-valued institution; we believe that it must deepen in being an independent counterweight to the rest of the institutions, and we argue that it is essential to find a figure of consensus. But we also have criticism and we'll take advantage of the tramite to make our proposals. We introduced them last year, and even when we ran into this year's budget. That's what I'm talking about. There is no reflection, no proposition, in the last years, of the infrastructure of the Arlarian; 51 staff, 74,5% free, named signacion or personal, or 25,5 officers. As I have said, this situation has been maintained in the course of recent years, when we are in the opposite direction here and other institutions: that instability is the reduction of as much as possible, and that it is at liberty that it is less designacion. We see also illegal contractations. High wages: There are 20 employees charging over 64.797 euros (% 40). In legal and other institutions there is no such thing as a percentage. Too much cost. In front of all this, we've suggested... Nothing is said in that legal proposition which the Populous Party has presented. 44. The article may have been read since it was agreed to rule between 20 years or 25 years ago, but we...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u22	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u23	... those which we propose will be those which we propose: one, to lower the pay; two, the advisors; three, free to go down to the minimum of charges insignacion, and to replace them with civil servants, four to descend the cost of the infrastructure, when it is now 4,580. euros. These are the proposals we shall make. In fact, the Basque Country will not support a candidate who will not bring down the cost of the organization and the collapse of the infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u24	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre generous. And finally, Mrs. Arreg, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. In the presence of the legal proposition made by the Popptic Party to change the regulations of the organization, I shall attempt to briefly explain the affirmative vote of the Eucbertarian party. It is true, during the eighth law, a work had been introduced, and though the work had been very advanced, it could not be disputed, for the law was over. The agreement obtained in the eighth law is very important. What we have not, is plain, why this proposition did not take place in the ninth law, when the majority of those who were present considered. It is true, too, that in this legislation there have been a certain number of motives at the Rules and Government Committee when the budgets of the intermediary have been introduced, and above all the personalities, the advisors. The several groups have proposed the subject more than once, and have been mentioned here today. Our group participated in the work of the Eighth Legislature aimed at improving and updating the regulations governing the institution of Ararteko. This work, which obtained a great consensus, could not be approved because it dissolved the House. It seems to us that we should take up as a basis the document which enjoyed broad agreement from the groups then represented in this Parliament; agreement and consensus which has not been sought at all in the representation of this initiative by the proposing group. We believe that the organization of the intermediary was of importance, and that the agreement obtained by the preceding companies would be more difficult than the work for the agreement. It seems to us that it would have been at least more elegant to present a spoken initiative, agreed with the rest of the groups. We do not think it is the best way to change the rules governing an institution of the importance of Ararteko by means of announcements to the media, out of respect both for the institution and for the work carried out by most of the parliamentary groups also present in this House today. It's not the best way, we think, to start a change like this. On the other hand, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and the Government has commented against the number of persons and advisers the institution has, as well as the way in which they are chosen. It has been a recurring topic, raised by more than one group, so it has surprised us that no mention is made of this in the proposed law. The debate has also been sparked about what Ararteko is charging, when in this House there are parliamentarians who also charge more than the President the government of the State. Lastly, we have some legal doubts about the text presented, but we have time to study the legal proposition deeply, and to improve it by correcting it. To conclude, I repeat, that we think it very important that we should acquire a large agreement about the regulations of the organization of the Arlias, and that we are ready to work in it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. The fourth point in the theme list is left for another point. And now, instead of the second point, the third will be discussed. Third point in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by Gloria Sánchez Martin, a member of the Basque Socialists, was to prepare a project against the law of the Basque Office in question of no negotiation with the union delegation during the process. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u27	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, let us see that the government does not believe in public employees. And we can say this because it has been three years deaf and blind before union proposals to make a public employment law. And it remains deaf and blind after this government has had to return to the drawer the preliminary draft prepared without even having brought it to Parliament, after that failure, after that punch on the table that gave all the public sector unions on 5 November. And this paralysis, at the height of the legislature that we carry, makes us fear the worst: that this law does not come to a good place. Euskadi needs to modernise its administration and adapt it to the new times and to the new needs of the citizens. To this end, it also needs to adapt the conditions under which those who make such public services possible must work. Everything makes us think that the Urkullu government is also going to lose the train of modernity in this matter. The lehendakari included this law in the legislative calendar it presented at the beginning of its mandate. He committed it for the second half of 2014. And we can be flexible with that timetable, we can also advocate an intensification of the agreement with those concerned, we prefer this bill to reach consensus with the social partners before it enters this Parliament. What we cannot accept is that even the unions, the same ones that forced the return of the text, the same ones that asked for contributions, today do not have an answer. They have been waiting since 5 November, the last time the sectoral table met, and at that table they undertook to present a draft of that text by early December. That's why we started the session as we finished it. If, at the last full check, on 12 December, I asked the adviser, in an inquiry, about this matter and the justification for the lack of progress was that it had only been a month since the sectoral table and they had not been able to study all the allegations, what is the excuse on 5 February? I remind the Government that the department has hundreds of union contributions in its hands since 5 November. The vice-counsel himself undertook to offer an articulated proposal for the draft before 5 December. And today, February 5, we all keep waiting, the workers, the representatives and those who represent the citizens, who demand agile services that these employees must provide. As we do not know the excuse, we are convinced that the analysis we made was the right one: that this government has shown little waist and little sensitivity, because it has not taken into account that this law should regulate a matter that affects tens of thousands of public workers in order to adapt its functions to the needs of citizens, and that, if they had overlooked the cooperation of workers' representatives in this regard, they today do not know how to fit the union proposals, or do not want to do so. This Government has been very comfortable with the basic state law; so comfortable, that its original draft was limited to transposing that rule. This Government, which so much likes to protest the competitive abuse that the central executive usually does, is submissive to what is established by the national norm. In December, when I presented the question that gives rise to this motion, I expressed the deep concern that the Socialists have about the lack of ideas that we see in this government to update the entire administration, and to do so by the hand of those who represent more than 100,000 workers. Today we have to regret that our doubts are confirmed. You just have to look at what's going on in places as sensitive as health or safety. Trade unions in all cases – like the one that is happening in EITB, which we will see later – confirm the lack of social dialogue. Social dialogue is not just sitting at a table to take pictures after two years of delaying agreements with social partners to take action in favour of employment. Social dialogue is the one that governments must practice every day if they want that which they manage to meet the needs of citizens. And it is clear that this Government has no practice in this area. As the Socialists have been warning, the Urkullu Government has put the entire public sector on a war footing, and it is not able to promote social dialogue, if any, within its exclusive competence. You do not remember so much union unity in Euskadi, and you have made it possible to put all trade unions in front of the intentions of this executive. I do not want to go into this debate in another unfulfilled commitment on the part of the Government to draw up the medium-term employment plan that guarantees generational relevancy in the public administration. We will be talking about this in a few weeks, because we have put forward a new initiative for the government to comply with what the majority of this House decides. Nor of the contents of this law on public employment. If it were to be referred to this Parliament, it would be when the groups had to decide on them. What we want is to demand the foreground, that is, dialogue, and we do not want any more excuses or delays. Those of us who believe in public employment, in the thousands of workers and their rights, in the work of the doctors or ATS who care for us, in the ertzainas who patrol our streets, in the teachers who educate our children, we urge the elaboration of this law. Those of us who believe that these workers are the indispensable agents for public services that are guarantees of equality and social cohesion, we advocate a regulation of working conditions that is adapted to what citizens demand today. And it is clear that the Urkullu government does not show any signs of believing in the workers who must provide public services. To this day, they do not answer them, and this is a sign of little conviction in the public services themselves. In the face of so many doubts and mistrust, this Parliament, which must ensure the effective management of these services, must demand from the Government a timetable for negotiations with workers' representatives (we believe it is important), and that this consensual law reaches this House before the end of the current session. It is true that the Government in Irekia has already updated its forecast. It is no longer the end of last year, obviously, it has already passed; now its forecast is within the first half of this year. But as true as this is that the unions have not yet received even their allegations, and that the Executive has failed to meet the deadline that had self-imposed. That makes us doubt the real will of this executive. And this Parliament already wants dates, deadlines and commitments to bring about the updating of the conditions under which tens of thousands of workers guarantee public services to citizens. That is why, from my parliamentary group, we have tabled this motion as a result of an inquiry before this plenary on 12 December 2014. Because we consider it necessary to draw up a timetable for the negotiation of the preliminary draft law on public employment in the Basque Republic, and also to make a diagnosis of the situation. And let it be fulfilled, let it be fulfilled this time. That the Basque public employment law should reach this Parliament also agreed with the union representation of workers at the Civil Service Bureau before 30 June 2015, that is, before the end of the current session. And this will also be the result of the agreement that was adopted in this House on 13 November, in the case-law agreement on employment and poverty. And I appreciate the effort made by the EH Bildu group. We have not been able to present, or are currently presenting the compromise amendment, because this point was to be the third and has been moved to the second, but that compromise amendment signed by the Socialist Party and the EH Bildu Group is about to be tabled. Because we believe that it is important that it be complied with; that this timetable be drawn up, that it be complied with at once, and that the public employment law, within this second deadline given by the current Basque Government, be complied with, and that the negotiated public employment law come within this session and be presented before 30 June 2015 in this House so that we can study it and present the corresponding amendments. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u28	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Arrido, representing the EH Collect Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u29	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. As it appears in the proposition of the Socialist Party, and as it has been shown here today, the meetings with the unions around the law of public employment have been two: the first on September 11th, and the second on November 5th. As far as we know, there hasn't been any other meetings. And in the meetings he's been in, the unions have been very critical. They've made a complete discussion, and they've made a request to stop the proposal. LAB filed the full correction. ELA, Copisons and UGTs are also partial corrections. But the majority insisted that they retreat and introduce another. And it's no wonder, from our point of view, the unions made a request to go back to you. On the one hand, the reductions of recent years, the state of collective negotiation, the absence of agreements... they require a profound deliberation about the situation. For the last few years, RedMonk has cuts a lot less than ever in public services. The cause of the crisis diminished public employment, lowered wages, and very plainly ruined the conditions of the work. Sometimes they argue that they have been imposed on by Madrid, and sometimes they are determined on it. The pay reduction from year 2010 has been 17%. This ought to be added to the percentage of an extraordinary reward, and also to the supposition that it does not contribute to it. The attack on 35 hours of work is to remove other measures from being sick. There's a terrible sense of success in all the administration camps, especially in the Osar and Education. Besides, the preparation is very great: Eight thousand workers are temporary at Osar and 5,000 in education. All these are clear instances of what we are talking about. Besides, this proposition is a copy of the law established in the state in many parts. We do not see any real will to develop the regulation which answers to the reality of our country and the exigencies of the country, by supporting the intervention of the party and seeking the consent of the agents (for witness that the negotiation is almost at this moment almost at rest). A law is doubtless necessary, but cannot proceed from the subjection of the laws of the state, but requires a law which answers to the wants of the majority and the desires of the majority. On the other hand, proposals or contents received in the pre-stage do not correspond in many cases to what has long been proclaimed from different sectors. We agree on a level with the ratings and clinics that have been made around a lot of things. For example, the new figure of the public administration, the prices based on subjective criteria, the privilege of evading services, the piracy of administration, the collective negotiation of language, etc. That's why we proposed correction to the text introduced by Socialist Party. It didn't seem enough for us to agree with what they proposed, and that's where we made our own correction. First, this is what we plan in our corrections, when we ask you to let us overcome the subjection to the fundamental laws of the state, and to do the law of public employment, which answers our wants. In short, we believe that it is time to begin the course without interference, because it is the only way from reality, by means of participation, to develop the pattern of the majority, and the standard of public employment, which the majority chooses. Second, let's do a negotiation plan against the law of public employment. In this respect, considering the scopes of the whole public function, let him make a diagnosis of the present situation and share it with the unional and cultural operators. Thus the ends which the law ought to perform will be determined and agreed. The diagnosis of the situation, the X-rayography, the sharing of it, is indispensable to determine the goals of a new law. And the fact that the goal is clear, it'll make it easier for negotiation and agreement. What's the purpose of it? He who will answer the wants of the citizen, a Basque, open to the cooperation, with worthy conditions of work, with transparent methods of entering the Administration. It would be important to define all that from our point of view. Finally, let the law of public employments be sent to this parliament with the syndicate delegation of the workers negotiated at the table of the Public Function. The basis and guarantee of this negotiation will be the solution of the monographic discussion of the 2014 November 13 of the Artichokes to prevent unemployment and poverty from developing the integrated strategy of the New Year's poverty. "The assembly asks the General to create and restore the following two priorities in the process of evading public employment: that the print of the law should be the result of reflections and agreement between unions and institutions, on the one hand, and that the conditions of the workers should not be made on one side-that is to say, to guarantee a collective negotiation." We've made a middle-way with the Social Party. It's not all we asked for, and besides, since we've been running and rushing, there's also a mistake in the editoration. However, there are two things that are important from our point of view, and that is why we agreed. That is to say, it is necessary that negotiation and law should be developed quickly and that a calendar should be required for this purpose, and that this must be negotiated with the workers. And the second thing is that the part I just read is that the law is asking you to do it all in advance. That's why we protected him. And we expect you to have the chance, to get out, and to do the real job law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u31	Yes, thank you very much. The Socialist Group rightly stresses that the preliminary draft Basque public employment law is a very important rule, since, once adopted, it will affect about 110,000 executive officials and labour personnel, deputies and municipalities, and calls for a genuine negotiation between the parties (i.e., the executive and trade unions), which would not be taking place so far. And from there, and with this argument, he presented the corresponding motion, which has given rise to that transactional that we have not yet had the opportunity to read. During the inquiry, the Socialist Group made a historical account of the events that have taken place in recent months, since the first meeting held by the Government at the Civil Service Bureau on 11 September 2014, and explains that from there a number of situations have taken place that are perfectly explained in that inquiry. On 5 November 2014, the Civil Service Bureau met again, with the participation of the Deputy Public Service Advisor, ELA, Workers' Commissions, UGT and LAB, and from there the presentation of various allegations, and the commitment made by the Executive to submit a new text before 5 December, which was denounced by the Socialist Group in that inquiry held on 12 December. The counselor was saying things that we can share, or rather desire. He said that it was not only the Government's intention to engage in real, effective and genuine negotiations on this preliminary draft law; in addition, such negotiations were already under way. And the counselor said that the text that is currently in circulation does not come unilaterally from the Government, but from a working team formed in September 2013, which would have worked until April 2014. He noted that 1,241 allegations had been recorded, of which 427 were submitted by the different trade unions. And he assured the advisor that it is the Government's intention to respond to all the allegations, and to move forward in the negotiating process throughout January. For its part, the Socialist Group insisted that so far the opinion of the trade unions has not been reached, a number of allegations have simply been made, which the Socialist Group's spokesman reiterated today. Mr. Counsellor pointed out that the text was being amended; there was, therefore, a real and content-based negotiation taking place. And he ended up asking for time. "It takes time," he said, "all this can't be processed in two days." We share the arguments put forward by the Socialist Group, and of course we share with the Socialist Group the extraordinary importance of the Basque public employment law. And we also share with the Socialist Group that it is essential that this preliminary draft law be negotiated with trade union representatives. We therefore share this, too. In any case, it is not a question of the Basque Parliament giving, or giving, in its case, support for any kind of agreement that has been reached, since the responsibility for the content that finally has this law, and any other, lies with Parliament, which is the representative of all Basque society. But it is obvious that the fact that there has been, or has been, a negotiation between the executive and trade union representatives is, or would be, positive. In any case, it will be up to us to dismantle and study the law rigorously and seriously, putting forward such amendments as we consider necessary. A genuine negotiation is not measured by the degree of acceptance of the counterpart's proposals, but on the basis of good negotiating faith, something more glassy and less verifiable. The executive has to evaluate the proposals and consider a real negotiation; likewise, the trade union representation must carry out an exercise of responsibility and height of sight, committing itself to the negotiation. We generally shared the socialist initiative, the motion finally put forward, but we consider it to be short, which is very poor. Because we are talking about a law that had to have been presented in this Parliament a few months ago, that had to have been presented in this Parliament in the second half of 2014, and now, as I understand it, in that transaction the government is being asked, after the corresponding negotiations with the unions, to come to Parliament in the first half of 2015. That is why I say that both the motion and the compromise, which seems to have been signed to us, seems to us to be very limited, has little scope, is relatively poor. I believe that something more can be demanded of this Parliament and the opposition groups. And that is what we have intended to do with our whole amendment, which the rest of the groups considered at least in its fundamental points was not included in the corresponding compromise amendment. We note that there has been a flagrant breach of the legislative timetable by the Basque Government. This is an undeniable reality that has happened on other occasions, which is usually the case, but in this particular case it is evident. And I am surprised that no parliamentary group says this. In other words, there have been records of out-of-date bills, other than those proposed in the legislative timetable. We have the law of public employment, we have the law of cooperatives, we have the law of contributions, we have the law of savings boxes, we have the law of ports. Out of the way they're gonna show up, if they finally show up. And virtually all of the bills that this Government has tabled in this House, except three, have all been tabled outside the legislative timetable. And to us this certainly seems serious, and at least UPyD proposes to denounce it and to express it in this House. That is why in our total amendment, which I believe is more demanding than any other (of course, more than the original motion and more than the compromise that they seem to have achieved), we propose that this Parliament censor the Basque Government for the widespread non-compliance with the legislative timetable that the Government drafted and presented at the time, and in particular for the delay in the submission of the Basque public employment bill with regard to the dates committed and reflected in the legislative timetable. With regard to this draft law, we propose to urge the Government to conduct a negotiation in good faith, real, effective and true with workers' representatives, and to submit the draft law on public employment by 28 February 2015. And we propose that this Parliament raise its level of demand to this government and urge this government to draw up and present in Parliament a new legislative timetable, in view of the repeated breaches and delays that are taking place. Obviously, the Government will have its explanation for each of the delays that have occurred, it will have its explanation, but the fact is that the legislative timetable that was presented to us at the time has repeatedly failed, and I think that the opposition groups at least deserve an explanation. An explanation for what has happened, and also for the Government itself to explain to us what is going to happen from now on. And, therefore, to present us with a new legislative timetable with those bills that are still pending to come to this House, to know what to follow. Because if it follows the current pace on the part of the Government, it is possible that not a single project will finally be presented, or that they will be presented so late that there will not even be time to discuss them. Finally, this is why we continue to defend our amendment in its entirety. I believe that this Parliament has to be demanding with this government, and that is what we have tried to do when we tabled this amendment in its entirety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u32	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Llanos, who represents the Potion of Basque Groups, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. In order to frame the law on public employment, and for what it heard when the inquiry was completed, it is true – and it is also stated in Law 7 of 2007 of the Basic Statute of the Public Employee – that the Spanish Constitution provides that the statute of public officials shall be regulated by law, and that article 149.1.18 confers on the State jurisdiction on the basis of the statutory regime of public officials. The final regulation is that of 2007, and before that 2007 the three legal rules that had been the core of the basic legislation of the State were Law 30/1984 on measures for the reform of the civil service; Law 53/1984 on Staff Incompatibilities in the Public Administration Service; and later Law 9/1987, which regulated the system of representation of civil servants and their participation and collective bargaining for the determination of conditions of employment. But, as I said, the last is Law 7/2007, the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, which was approved with the intention of reducing the basic content laid down by the State, since the enormous development of the autonomous and local administrations required a rethinking of the design of the staff regime at their service. The system of public employees cannot be set up today on the basis of a uniform system with the State Administration as a single reference model, but each administration must be able to set up its own personnel policy, without diminishing the necessary cohesion elements and coordination instruments. Therefore, there is now more room, and more than ever, the need for the adoption of this law on public employment, which is partly motivated by the Basic Staff Regulations of 2007 and by the changes that the Administration itself has undergone over the years, and by the Basque Administration as well. And it's not about jumping the bases, as it was said here when the interpellation ended. No, it is not for this group to say that it is not necessary to respect the basic legislation of the State. But it must also be made clear that, according to our self-government, we have a wide margin to elaborate, approve and develop a law of public employment of our own, updated and adapted to the times and characteristics of our Administration. The development of our self-government consists not only in a continuous demand for competitive transfers, but in the development of the legislative tools of the competences already transferred, and above all in a good management of them by the public authorities. This permanent demand for higher levels of self-government hides nothing but a purely political approach, when today there are a good number of issues still to be developed, but because of the lack of the necessary political momentum. Some make accusations of false re-centralisation – and this matter is a good example of these claims – seeking to encourage a state of opinion based on political appreciation. And we say this because the basic legislation was used here as an excuse to say what the content of the public employment law should be or should not be. And the main feature of the basic legislation on public employment is flexibility, since, based on the powers conferred by the statutes of autonomy and the doctrine of the Constitutional Court, the Basic Statute of the Public Employee expressly recognizes the capacity of each public administration to develop its own public service policy. And, in accordance with article 6 of Law 7/2007, each autonomous community, like the state legislator, is obliged to adopt new legislation for the development of public service for the staff of their respective administrations, as well as of the local administration, with respect, in the latter case, to the organizational autonomy of the latter. This obligation also provides an opportunity to address, as I said earlier, a profound transformation and modernization of public employment here in the Basque Country. As was said when the question was raised by the Councillor, it is true that a number of procedures are required in the drafting of the normative provisions that are regulated by law. Now, it's also true that those steps, those steps can be done faster or less quickly. And in order not to make just one criticism of this government, I must also say that, now that we are immersed in the housing law, I want to say that the previous housing bill could not see the light because, according to the previous councillor, the procedures were so long, and so many, that it was like a viacrucis. What happens is that, of course, that viacrucis had to have more stations than normal, because it didn't come to an end and the legislature ended without law. Let us hope that this time it does not happen the same, that some of the laws that are under way do not have to endure a viacrucis so long that in the end we never finish it. Because this law on public employment is already late (it was planned for 2014, and has been delayed until 2015 at the request of the unions), but, apart from this law, according to the timetable of the Basque Government another series of laws would have to be introduced. I too had it written, and it is a shame that Mr. Maneiro is not here, because, if not, he seems to be the one to brag about the only criticisms. But I must say that twenty-nine are the laws that made up that calendar, which was announced in 2013; that thirteen projects would be approved in the first half of 2014, seven in the second, and the rest in 2015. Well, they have not been done, because in the first two years of the legislature we have only passed a law of those provided for in the legislative calendar, ten of the twenty that should have been sent, and seven that were planned for 2014 have been postponed. And, as I was saying, it is true that there are a number of procedures, and within those procedures you are consulting the social side. And we agree with the proponents and with the other groups in which this consultation should be effective, which should not be a paripé. It was stated here that in November last year this meeting between the trade unions and the Deputy Public Service Counsel took place, and showed that progress had been made at the General Civil Service Bureau and that the contributions of the trade unions would be taken into account in the drafting of the public employment bill. We hope that this will be the case, that they will be taken into account, to the extent that they are input from an important part, such as the representatives of public workers. Also, after that, it was again announced that these measures and contributions would be taken into account. It is true that it was said that, since in volume the allegations were very much, more than a thousand, it was necessary more time. And we believe that, in view of the allegations, it may take more time, but neither do we think that time should go beyond June 2015. It is true that we must try to reach agreement with the representatives of the workers, it is true that their contributions must be taken into account, and that the establishment of a timetable will make it possible to visualize this. But it is also true, and it has been said here, that negotiating does not mean inexorably admitting everything that is proposed, and we can agree on that. Nor that, because there are matters in which it is not going to be very difficult to find an agreement or some points of connection, in the end it takes time in illo tempore (Sic) to pass this law, because we believe that the existence of the public employment law is important, and because in order for everyone to give us time, and also the groups we can make our contributions throughout the process of that project in this House, it should not go beyond 2015. That is why we agree with those two assumptions that have been made here. One, that there is a real negotiation, and we also have no reason to doubt that this real negotiation, and without any paripé, will be given. But in any case, the law is here before June of this year. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u34	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Eubertarians have their word, Mr. Orbegis, representing the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, chief officers, members of the legislature. First of all, we will say that when the representative of PSOE says that there is no negotiation with the representatives of the unions, we certainly do not agree with that assertion. In answer to the interpelation made by Mrs Sánchez, the chairman of the revenues of Ercorence explained with precision how this prediction of the law of the public employment is made. We believe that these explanations had been answered in the correct manner by the principal questions proposed to him in the interpelation, and to those plans which the groups are repeating here and there today. We believe that what we're discussing today in this Chamber has no strong foundation. In fact, it's more like the initiative she's trying to kill the fun of you and make you bump into obstacles. And besides, what does it seem to me that the person who represents this enterprise is really the object of it, and that, though he knew it before, the law of public employment did not come to an end, he presented it without any calendar, and sent it to the parliament. So we think, on the one hand, the negotiation calendar already exists, and we're making a real negotiation. And on the other hand, the President of the Erkorene too confirmed the engagement that the law of the public employment should be sent to the legislature before this meeting was completed; and also, after having completed this process of negotiation with the agents, having examined and answered several contributions and delegations, and, as I have said, in a short time as short as possible. This middle course, therefore, we have been able to recognise at the very moment of the EZAZU, for what we have heard, has two main points. And about them, it's our study: when required to present negotiation calendar, as I said, we believe the negotiation calendar already exists. So this request is late. We don't understand what that business business business business business means, because it's negotiating and it's going to be fun and the unions, and that's how it's done. 'ErekMork insisted on this negotiation chat number again and again.' The Chief Department himself confirmed it in this Chamber's interpelation of yours, Mrs. Sánchez. Besides, the real negotiation was to be carried out. I mean, that negotiation would be effective, real, and also with content. He said, on the one hand, that this engagement was made by the law itself, but also because he saw it necessary to consider the opinion of the confederate agents in the designs of the working of the public administration. It's been mentioned here before because I remember that the representative of PSOE accused the Eusk0 Kyzi Kyzie to be one-sided. In this sense even the chief physician of the Rollets explained something, this Assembly of Laws 2013. in the year he accepted the law which regulates the nature of the general regulations, and the seventh article of that law says when it is to be negotiated with the text proposed at the beginning. And this is the moment when, after accepting a preliminary attempt, the phase of negotiation, of hearing and consulting. So it's just like, "You know, it's what's meant by the law." As a matter of fact, he put an initial suggestion on the table at his own moment. And about this he also explained the steps which had hitherto followed. And that's where he told us that from September 2013 to May 2014 a technical crew was formed, with experts in human resources. And in it they were responsible for the human resources of the Forum and the Eede, and were assembled every month, and they completed this work until they proposed a first text. After which, as I have shown in the September of 2014, the chief physician, following the law of 8/2013, gave his former consent to this law of law, and then began to listen and consult. They made a number of meetings, but I'm sure it was with the unions, and it's just a bunch of sactorial meetings, and both of them. This means that they were united one by one in the General Table of the Public Function, but also with traders who have no Representative at the General Table of the Public Function, to present to them by the first hand their proposals, and to give them an opportunity of arguing. And so the first general table of September 11th, 2014 was assembled. The document of pre-superation was given to the representatives of the unions in the official manner, in order that they might be able to examine them. And the delegates were engaged to join the negotiation procedure, and even explained whether they were willing to negotiate or contribute. It is not true, therefore, that they left the table, or expressed a total opposition. Apart from the representatives of the unions, they also made assemblies with the workers of the general administration, directly opposite to them, to give them explanations and to say that they had a chance to make their representatives and contributions. On November 5th, 2014, the second general table was assembled, and, as has been previously agreed, some unions were introduced in writing. I mean, you could see that you were planning to join this negotiation plan. Others were engaged to present themselves in a month's time, but in this same assembly of November 5, the negotiations began and completed. In the first text, in the first proposition, some changes were also introduced. This means that there has been a negotiation and that they had content, and that, consequently, changes had been added to this initial text. So when the term for the introduction was over, 1,241 representatives were introduced. That's 427 of them introduced by the unions. But apart from the unions, other institutions have also contributed to the process, such as the teams of fun, the forum, the professional clegios, and even the individuals. As I said, 1,241 requests have been introduced. And the latter were introduced by UGT himself on December 1st. I mean, you're the one who told M.M. wasn't doing his job for December 5, and we've got it, for instance, that UGT introduced them around 89 on December 1st. You ask four days later to look at all these things and answer them. We understand that it's a great deal. Even the chief physician said everyone would be examined and everyone would be answered. That requires a lot of work, and it's normal that it takes time so it can work. I repeat, however, that the number proposed shows the complexity of the product of negotiation, and that in this law-governism so many operators and private persons participate, and that this also adds the difficulty to this subject. Besides, as the chief physician said, after having finished these jobs, having examined them once, and given them an answer, there will be another general table, besides the assembly they might be looking for, the general table will be reassembled, and there will be occasion to introduce changes into that text which is still available. Secondly, what is required is the plan which we negotiated on the general table with the unions before we finish June to the legislature. In the first place, we have no objection to that, we too asked him to correct us in the whole of our lives. But I'd insist that you're laughing at this negotiation plan. Here is the data: The union delegates have been available since the beginning of the year... to your technical documentation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u36	Finish up, Mr. Sweets.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u37	Yeah. The general table has been convoked twice, and besides the general table there have been at least a dozen other assemblies, which have preceded the representatives of the former or of the unions individually, one by one. In November, in the general table of 5, together with the unions, the method of working was discussed, which shows that the will is to be carried forward to the negotiation of will. And in this very assembly, as I have said, there were several changes of change, which at that very moment had been taken notice of.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u38	Finish up, Mr. Sweets.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u39	So we think the negotiation procedure is still open. As the chief physician himself pointed out, the negotiations table is expected to regroup. He made it clear that there is no objection to any change in the scheme, after examining the provisions and contributions. And so we believe that we will protect our full correction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u40	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing on the answers, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u41	Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen. I have just censored in my first speech to this House that this law has not been introduced within the deadline. Obviously, the Government has not complied with the obligation, with the deadline that it itself set for sending this public employment bill to this House before the end of the second half of last year. In addition, I have already stated in my previous speech that the Councillor of Public Administration and Justice, Mr Erkoreka, has failed to fulfil his promises, expressed during the interpellation that I made to him at the plenary session on 12 December 2014. And it has also failed to meet the commitments that have been demanded within the legislative timetable, as I said. The Government must demonstrate once and for all that it wants to carry out a real, effective and true negotiation in relation to that preliminary draft law, as stated in the plenary on 12 December that the adviser, Mr Erkoreka, wanted to do. The adviser also stated in that intervention that collective bargaining is required, because this is required by article 37.1 of the Staff Regulations, and because it was the personal conviction of the adviser himself. And I say to them, prove it at once. After the submission of allegations already in early December, they had only to respond to those allegations and move forward in the negotiation process. Well, well, it's February 5th, and they haven't responded to the allegations yet. The trade unions are still waiting, as they were already waiting in my speech on 12 December. Two months later, I repeat, nothing has changed. There is no trace of responses to the allegations. There has not been a single meeting since the last of 5 November by the General Civil Service Bureau. That there's no need for a negotiating schedule? Mr. Orbegozo, of course I do! Because it's all stopped. I stated in my previous speech of 12 December that defending dialogue is not about invoking it: it is about practicing it. And the Councillor for Public Administration and Justice continues to make no progress in that hitherto non-existent negotiation. Since 11 September, there have been only two meetings of the General Civil Service Bureau, that of 11 September, where the text is presented, and that of 5 November, where allegations are made. And to that alone, they called it negotiation. First, they promised to provide a draft in early December, containing the accepted allegations and whether they would be included in the text of the draft. And they did not, justifying it on the basis that a serious study of all the allegations submitted had to be carried out. But they have also failed to comply with the second date that the adviser himself stated during his intervention, which was to respond to the allegations and have the draft in January. And at this stage it will also not meet the commitment set out in the legislative timetable. It has already failed to comply with the second half of last year, but at this stage it will also fail to comply with the first half of this year. And, therefore, so far there are only promises, promises and more promises. The lack of negotiation with trade union representation in the process of drafting the preliminary draft public employment law remains a public cry, and, far from empty words and promises, they do not take real steps to advance the real negotiation with trade unions. We are aware that the elaboration of the project has its corresponding procedures of hearing, that a negotiation is never easy, but it must be carried out, because it is also mandatory to carry out it. But to realize it in addition to a real way. Therefore, given the great importance and importance it has, I believe that the compromise amendment that is to be adopted today, by the motion tabled, is important. And I do want to express the importance of this negotiating schedule, because everything is stopped: the allegations have not been answered, nor has another date been given for the General Civil Service Bureau... Yes, that calendar is necessary. And let it also be implemented, that this project should come to Parliament before 30 June this year. And I just wanted to make it clear that in the compromise amendment there was a mistake on the date when the monograph on unemployment and poverty, which was not November 13, was November 7. It is a mere date failure, but it will be corrected, simply. And I would like to thank the EH Bildu Group for their cooperation and for having signed this compromise amendment. And also thank the People's Party, which has already stated that, although it has not signed this compromise amendment, it will vote in favour of it, because it agrees with the need to implement this timetable and that this draft law on public employment has to come to this House once and for all within the first half of the year. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u42	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u43	For us to define what kind of public function or service we need is very important. And this, by guaranteed the intervention of the party, would be said to be indispensable by the success of the large consent. Therefore we say that we must have a law, no doubt, but not every law, and not every thing, made and received in any way. The conditions of public service and their duties, and of labour in it, are too important for the people to do things in any way whatever. Moreover, this law, and I shall repeat it again, must be in reality and in need of it. It requires our action to be done without first setting bounds, and defending independence. This is not all, I have already mentioned, but there are two things which ought to be useful to us to get out of this magnet. You need a negotiation business, and you need to know and know, and that's what we're asking you to do. For it is not true that things are going, things are at rest. They are stopped because the last meeting was made in November, the beginning of November, and then there was no other step. And the deadlines go by. The deadlines are over. And we hope from now on at least that when you put a date on the date, that's why we've decided that you're gonna be able to make a date in the June term, at least in the future, and bring it back to the legislature with a legal proposal, but at least two conditions full. And that's what was planned for the discussion here in November. One is to be negotiated with operators and institutions, and to agree with them; and the second, with a firm engagement, refused to impose on collective negotiations and on one side the conditions of work. These two things are collected, and the necessity of making a diagnosis is also received. And we may add to this that this diagnosis ought to be shared, even with operators and institutions, and that, owing to the diagnosis, clear ends should be placed in the negotiation and progress of this law. We've agreed with this plan to get something out of here today and give it a push to the negotiation. We hope it's worth it. And we hope to reach this legislature when the legal proposition arrives, with a large consent.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u45	Yes, thank you very much, President. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that both the Socialist Group and the EH Bildu Group are demanding the work of the trade unions, which is indeed very good, but they are not demanding the work of ourselves, that is, the work of this Parliament as the control chamber of the Basque Government. This is a powerful call to my attention. You seem to attach more importance to the work that trade unions are doing – which is certainly fundamental – but you forget what work this Parliament should do. And, of course, we are not in this Parliament to accept docilely all the repeated breaches of this government, repeated breaches that you yourself, spokesmen of the Socialist Group and of the EH Bildu Group, have shown in this rostrum. They accuse the Government of failing to comply with this bill, they accuse the Government of failing to comply with the legislative timetable, they accuse the Government of not negotiating with the trade unions, but they give them a new deadline, they allow them to keep smiling so quietly. Because the truth is that this compromise that is going to be approved by the Government does not pose any discomfort to it, because it is clear that it is clearly insufficient and extraordinarily poor what is apparently going to be approved here. And we, frankly, are not in this Parliament to accept so docilely the repeated non-compliances of this government and the non-compliances of this councillor, who in that motion said some things that he said and that, indeed, they are not being complied with. That's why we're not going to support this transactional, which brings nothing. Because the Government is urged to negotiate with trade unions, but it is the Government's duty to negotiate with trade unions. And the Government is urged to introduce this bill during the first half of this year, when it had to have introduced this bill during the second half of 2014, as it committed itself. And that is why we maintain our amendment, and we propose that this Parliament censor the Government for submitting this bill late, because it has not yet introduced this bill, and that it also censor this Parliament for the repeated and clear non-compliance with the legislative timetable that the Government itself has voluntarily submitted, on whose timetable I say it has indicated the deadlines that the Government has considered. It is possible that similar things could not be approved by the Socialist Group or EH Bildu. The Socialist Group because during the last parliamentary term it repeatedly failed to comply with its own legislative timetable, and Bildu because, if I am not mistaken, it does not even present a similar thing in the Gipuzkoa Foral Chamber. But, Mrs Sánchez, it is not enough to say that you censor the government's breaches. We have to vote for it. That is why we will then vote for the application for resignation of the Director General of EITB. You have already defended it at the corresponding press conference, but that is not enough. There must be a pronouncement from this House. That is why we will then vote for Mrs Iturbe's request to resign, and that is why we propose that this Parliament vote against this government for its repeated failure to do so. If you want, Mrs Sánchez, we have a recess and we are negotiating a possible compromise that includes censorship of this government. I mean, repeated non-compliances. It is not worth the excuses, it is not worth saying that many allegations have been made and that they must be studied. It is not the trade unions' responsibility, it is not the trade unions' fault. The responsibility lies with the Government, which should have submitted this draft and has not been submitted. It is not worth saying that it is a very complicated project, it is not worth saying that there are hearings, it is not worth saying that many allegations have been made... It's not worth all that. That legislative timetable has been breached. I say, today only three bills have been submitted in time; all the others have been submitted out of time. And there are still many projects that remain unreported, including this one, and in relation to the other legislative projects we do not know exactly what is going to happen. That is why we propose that the Government explain to us today what its legislative timetable really is and when it intends to introduce these bills. Finally, Mrs Sánchez, if you are willing, let us negotiate a compromise in that regard. I mean, it's not enough to say from the rostrum that you censor. That censorship must be voted on. And that is reflected in our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u46	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Llanos, who represents the Potion of Basque Groups, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u47	Thank you again, Madam President. Of course, this group cannot be told that it has not repeatedly censored, even in this very plenary - we have done so today and we have done so on other occasions - that the legislative timetable has not been fulfilled. That's right. Moreover, even from this group it was asked that some of those rules that were set out in the legislative calendar and that we considered priorities, such as the employment law, should be advanced, precisely to give more opportunities. Some of the issues that were included in that legislative timetable we considered should have been advanced. And it is that we have denounced that, not agreeing with the timetable – we have just done so in the previous one – is that it has not even been complied with, because so many rules that should have been presented have not been introduced. Of course, I imagine that, if you ask the Government, you have very strong reasons why these rules could not be presented in time. Reasons which, on the other hand, are sure to be given in other instances, but which are not shared and are subject to criticism. In the same way as always – and I also said this in my first speech – there is a continuous appeal for recentralisation, for competences to be invaded, for no longer to be given competence, but they themselves are managed in an absolutely harmful way, and it produces the consequences that it produces, which is making this Autonomous Community the one that has the worst indices in terms of job creation and economic recovery. As I say, it is very easy to appeal to the rest, but it seems that it is more difficult to govern and make decisions and then take responsibility for those decisions. It was said here that for what a negotiating timetable was necessary, because it already existed. Well, if it already exists, let it show what it is. And I also think it is good that there is such a timetable not only for the unions themselves, for the government itself, that a series of deadlines should be set for such a series of meetings, because that also means that the procedure for this law should not be extended, as I said in my first intervention, in illo tempore (Sic), and that when we arrive in May this year we should say "No, it is necessary to speak again with the unions". No, a series of meetings are already being established, and an attempt is being made at those meetings to reach agreement. I used to say that in my first intervention. It is true that the negotiation is already established by law, that there is no need to urge such negotiation because it is established within the very procedures established by law for the elaboration of general provisions. I have also said, negotiating does not mean inexorably admitting what the other party is proposing; nor does responding to the allegations mean that that claim has to be absolutely considered. Sometimes the claim can be answered by saying that that claim, for whatever reason it was relevant at that time, cannot be accepted. But it is true that negotiation has to be a real negotiation, and that it cannot be a paripé. With this I believe that the timetable is good that exists, as it is good that there is a commitment, but on the part of all groups in this House, that the law be brought before June 2015. Because here it has been said that the law is important, but not any law. Because we also have to say that sometimes the best is the enemy of the good, and that we are going round and round and round and – what I said before – in the end is such a huge crossroad, and we try to get such a perfect law, in which there is such a degree of consensus, that in the end we do not even get to discuss it, because we continue to go round and round, collecting allegations, collecting contributions, and in the end the project does not get here so that the representatives of the citizens, who are us, can discuss the law and make timely contributions. Then we'll approve... I do not know whether he will contribute more or less; I say to him in any case that if his point had been raised, if he had been included in the amendment, we would have voted in favour, because we believe that the two points are important. That the timetable exists not only for trade unions, but also for the Government itself, so that the trade unions can no longer delay the negotiation of the law over time, and that it is presented before June this year is also important, especially for us, so that this House can give time to study and make the appropriate contributions to that law. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u48	Thank you, Miss Llanos. And finally, Mr. Orbez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u49	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Sánchez, you once again stand up to the Basque Government, which has failed to meet the deadline to which it had committed itself, and that the processing of the preliminary draft is paralysed. The truth is that it would have been easier to present a text..., simply to comply with the formalities that the law says that it must comply with all general provisions at the time of its preparation, and to refer that text to Parliament. But it wasn't like that. A negotiation process has been initiated in the past, leading to broad participation, extensive involvement of actors interested in making allegations and contributions to the originally proposed text. In fact, as we mentioned earlier, there have been about 1,241 allegations by entities and agents of different colors. Therefore, we understand that yes, that to defend dialogue is to practice it, and we very much agree with that statement that it makes. We are also very aware that two years ago in Parliament we had a text forwarded by the former Socialist Government which had no claim of any kind, nor was there any timetable for negotiation. In fact, it is not known that there has been any contribution or allegation to that text. On the other hand, on this occasion we have 1,241 allegations that are going to be analysed, that are going to be studied, that are going to be answered, and many of them are going to be incorporated into the text that we are finally going to have to discuss in this House. We have not said that there is no need for a negotiating timetable. We say that that timetable already exists, that the negotiation process is already under way, and that this initiative is late. It is late because, as I said earlier, this negotiating procedure has existed, this timetable has existed (it was described by the adviser himself in the reply he gave to the question he raised, he told it in all detail), and because we are already, in our view, at the final stage before the text that we are going to have the opportunity to discuss in this House is finally adopted. We are therefore going to vote in favour of the amendment in its entirety. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u50	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Second point on the subject list: "In order to discuss the project as the Basque Socialist made the legislatures, the records of the Red Radio jobs. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Unzalalu is the representative of Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u51	Thank you, ma'am. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, good days to all. Well, obviously it's urgent in the Parliament for two weeks ago to deal with the file of jobs that's been checked on the Euské radio. This socialist proposition seems to be proper, because the majority of the parties in it has expressed the intention of denying what the authorities are proposing. We say the Socialists are an emergency issue. We want this Chamber to deny the file of employment taxing that will leave more than 50 people out of Radiocadi, because it is a process that will take place for the first time in a public company, because there is no guarantee that there is no previous analysis of the job, and because it leads along the road to Rajoy's work form which this chamber refuses. That is why we also believe that the current Director-General should no longer be in her position. In two years it has only contributed to conflict, it has lost the confidence of workers' representatives, and it has lost and continues to lose the confidence of the audience and most of the parliamentary groups in this House. Mrs Iturbe has addressed an outstanding issue, it is true, that of non-fixed indefinite workers, which arises as a result of irregular decisions made on the radio station when Mr Ortuzar was the director general of the radio station. It has faced the challenge, right, but from our point of view it has given it the most wrong answer possible, making a specific group of workers of the entity pay for the consequences of mismanagement and a violation of the law at the time. It must be acknowledged, however, that Mrs Iturbe is right when she claims that the board of directors gave her permission to lay off part of these workers. The agreement adopted on 29 April 2014 specifically states: "The Board of Directors authorizes the Director General to hold a call for employment for Eusko Irratia Sociedad Anonymous in order to definitively cover 49 places which are deemed indispensable to ensure the current and future needs of the production process, as well as to amortize 30 jobs in the framework of the process of regularization of the indefinite non-fixed in the terms contained in the supporting memorandum submitted". This is the literal one, which obtained fourteen votes in favour on the board of directors (that of the councillors proposed by PNV and by Euskal Herria Bildu, Euskaltzaindia and Eusko Ikaskuntza, in addition to Mrs Iturbe herself), two votes against (those of the councillors on the proposal of the People's Party), and four abstentions (those of the socialist councillors on the proposal and the representative of the Consumer Union). And I wanted to stick to what that April 29 was agreed and approved so that there would be no misinterpretation. I will repeat the arguments that my colleague, Mrs Mendia, put forward in that council, which we have then repeated in this House and in other forums to the point of satiety; arguments that are just as valid today as ten months ago. With the permission of my colleague, Mrs Mendia, I will reproduce her speech, in which she began by saying that the decision that was being taken was suffering from a lack of prior reflection on the assessment of jobs in EITB, and the conditioning of the public call for employment to an objective of the strategic plan, such as bilingualism, which will not be possible in this mandate without a prior assessment of all jobs and their different levels of growth in the Basque country. Ms. Mendia also said that the list of non-fixed indefinite persons reflected generic professional categories, and did not indicate the criteria to be followed for choosing a job or another for the job call, or what they would be amortized and the consequences that such a decision would entail for those affected, when all of them acceded to Eusko Irratia after processes in which some even came to test access to the entity, not regulated by a specific public job call, but with evidence adapted at that time. Others did not. Others did so directly through the lease of services or the commercial contract. She also reminded Mrs Mendia that the consideration of indefinite non-fixed means recognizing the permanent needs of the company, and therefore they are part of the structural staff. And he also concluded by reiterating the firm defense of public calls for employment to stabilize and reduce interinity in the administration, but we could not support, and we did, a call for employment (that call for employment, better said), because of the legal doubts it presents, because of the lack of agreement with the representatives of the workers, something fundamental in a process of this kind, and because it contemplates the destruction of public jobs, and it will also lead, and indeed led, to an entity to a labor conflict that will not facilitate the adaptation of EITB as a public television project of the future. That was the socialist position on 29 April 2014, and this is the socialist position on 5 February 2015. We agree with job calls that stabilize staff, but not those that destroy jobs. We agree on the adequacy of human resources to present and future needs of the public service that is provided, but not to dispense with those human resources. We agree with planning and social dialogue. We are against allowing public operators to create a conflict that could have been avoided and, by the way, a decline in the provision of the service and in the quality of the public service of Basque television. Now, with the excuse of a court ruling, it has been pointed out that all the arguments offered in recent months by the management and those who supported that call for employment have turned out to be a deception. That the covert ERE that some of us saw from the beginning is a covert ERE. That an ERE can be a legal instrument, but it is certainly not an instrument of job creation, as its own name indicates and as we have been saying repeatedly. That has become, by the way, the word of the lehendakari himself, who literally said, in February 2013, "I guarantee the maintenance of public employment that affects EITB, and I guarantee that with EITB will not happen, despite the adjustments, what is happening on other autonomous televisions or on Spanish television. "I guarantee," said the lehendakari, "that this is not going to happen." And we say that the judgment is an excuse, because that judgment, as the legal report rightly explains, sets out what EITB is obliged to do, but it does not tell EITB what it has to do. The ruling is that, if the Director-General had previously planned to lay off the workers concerned with zero euros in compensation, she is now obliged to compensate them for that dismissal. The ruling does not say that it has to fire indefinite non-fixed workers, nor that an ERE should be made on a specific collective, nor what positions should be dispensed with, nor that it should do so even if there is no agreement with the unions and Mr Rajoy's labour reform allows it. That doesn't say the sentence. That is what could be avoided if the Director-General had at the time responded to what most of the representatives of this House are saying: that the ERE should be withdrawn; that it should present a plan on the current and future needs of the entity; that it contrasts the competences of all workers in structural positions; and that it should define the objectives to be achieved and that it should agree with the workers' representatives. All this has been missing in this process that opened in April 2014. Today there is no longer any legal doubt. Those who expressed themselves, as I said, on that board of directors of April 2014 are no longer. They're certain. We have been moving these doubts over these ten months and wanting to resolve through parliamentary initiatives what we thought had been a boredom. For our part, all these initiatives have been constant, as I say, trying to solve a problem in which we had been led and those who supported that resolution in April 2014. Today the doubts are clear: there is an ERE, as we said, and the call for employment does not consolidate, let alone create jobs, nor regularize the indefinite non-fixed ones. The remaining doubts now relate to the relationship capacity of the director, but of the Basque Government itself. And we have to appeal to the Government because, as I have already said, Lehendakari himself has committed his word to maintaining structural employment. Because the government itself in other areas of the administration has announced – Mr Erkoreka has told us in this very House – that it is going to regularize indefinite non-fixed procedures with precisely what has been done in the Basque Radio Television. That is what has been announced here, and that is what we would have liked to have been done in EITB too, that all these initiatives should be aimed at those workers consolidating their jobs, which is what is intended to be done in the Administration. We also believe that it should have been done in EITB. And because in the end the Government is ultimately responsible for the situation, and if it does not address it and resolves it, it will only create uncertainty in the rest of the workers in the public sector, who will not be able to trust the word given to them by the Executive on the future of their jobs. The Socialists asked the director to resign directly last October. We ask her because, as we said, she resigns in a reflective verb that belongs to herself. That request did not come out, for reasons we all know, nor did the affected one give up, while the lehendakari reiterated his support. As the Government has so far not wanted to address the problem and give it an adequate solution, today we reiterate the request for the cessation of the Director and the Director of Human Resources, because we believe that they are directly responsible for the situation of conflict and instability generated in EITB. We have signed a compromise amendment, which you all have, with the UPyD group, which I believe contains the broad lines that can be the basic lines that can help to amend what has been wrongly started. And I also believe that the four points in this amendment reflect – if not all, the majority of them – the consensus of the vast majority of the groups in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u52	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Llanos, representing the Basque Potula Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u53	Thank you again, Madam President. Well, we've seen one more chapter of the situation that seventy-nine Radio Euskadi workers have been living since 29 April. It is on that date, on 29 April, when the decision is made, as you all know, on the EITB board of directors, as has been said here, with only two votes against (then we seemed the rare, but the only two votes against the People's Party, this parliamentarian and the other representative), to call that offer of forty-nine places of public employment. This offer the Director General confirms it to a communication agency on March 7, through an interview, as a formula to regularize workers. And ten days later that the communication agency confirms it is when it communicates it to those affected. You see that you prefer to tell the media first, and that shows the respect that has been shown by the staff in general, and by these workers in particular. An OPE, which we have said from the beginning and we will continue to say, is the opposite of what should be an OPE. An OPE must be intended for job creation, and it is intended for the destruction of employment. It was justified from the management of EITB by the need to regularise certain contracts. That's what we've been told from the beginning. But from the beginning we also said that this regularization had already occurred, that the Labour Inspectorate had described them as indefinite, and as being part of the entity's structural staff. They can be called non-fixed, they can be given the names they want, but Social Security and Justice said they were part of the entity's staff. Therefore, ten months ago the workers reported that there was no way to fire them, that they were indefinite workers; that the non-fixed name would have been put from the management, but that the only way to fire them was an ERE. And here it has been denied as active and passive, and this group has said from the beginning that it was an undercover ERE. Ten months later, it seems that the address..., to Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria I also ask, and to Mr. Urruzuno, who at the time said it, already seems that for everyone it must be an ERE. Who were we right from the beginning, that this was a covered ERE? It has been said that regularisation was necessary because of the way in which the workers, these workers, had entered the entity, but we must say the same thing that we have said on all occasions: that when they entered the entity, in EITB, they were passed a series of tests, which at the time decided the direction; that it was the responsibility of the management teams then to choose the formula in which these workers entered. Entry and stay for a long time, because many have been responsible for EITB's successive addresses for a very long time. That they didn't go through a public call? They recognize him. They've told us. They entered thanks to a hundred irregular contracts signed at the time when Mr Ortuzar was the director, who then the Labour and Justice Inspectorate regularized them, and who are therefore full employees of EITB. And they are because of the incompetence of the successive directions (Mr. Ortuzar, Mr. Beloki, Mr. Camino, Mr. Salgado, Mr. Elgezabal). By the direction of then and the direction of now. And are the workers to blame for all that? Are the workers now the ones who have to pay for this mismanagement and the constant mistakes of the successive EITB addresses? And it is also that some have wanted to hang the plug-in sign, and on many occasions they entered through scholarships, scholarships in the last course of the UPV or of the University of Navarra. And they've been, like I say, working there for a long time. Some have been ten, others fifteen, and others even twenty years. And we have been told by some that their situation was provisional. Well, come on, really, I don't know if it's a problem with the Spanish, but look at the definition of provisional in the dictionary. Because being twenty years on a staff I think that for everyone we speak Spanish is the opposite of being provisional. And we also have to count more things: the hundreds of false self-employed hired in the Ortuzar era, the contracts of artists of EITB, which have been denounced by the Labour Inspectorate, the twenty-four workers illegally handed over by EITB to M4F, the dismissals of Radio Vitoria, the EPO now resorted to, the ERE that clearly from the beginning we said was going to happen... And here no one assumes any responsibility. No one! And the responsible are the seventy-nine workers who are trying to bear the consequences and who are now trying to fire. Because – we said from the beginning – what this OPE was supposed to mean was that seventy-nine workers who were part of the EITB's structural staff now go to the street. That's what this OPE meant. And it is going to be fired, as I say, to workers who the judicial sentences and the Labour Inspectorate consider to be part of EITB. But this which now seems to be clear ten months ago was not so clear. For some, ten months ago it was not so clear and justified, and the OPE was approved, and it was intended to drive out without ERE and without compensation to seventy-nine workers. And you know the worst? That everyone knew this from the beginning, because the workers contacted all the groups, all of them: the Nationalist Party, the representatives of Bildu, me and the Socialist Party. With everyone. And they all told us the same thing. And you, Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria, and you, Mr. Urruzuno, were told, and they told them what was going to happen. And they said that it was not an ERE, and they said that no, that there was no ERE, and that they could be dismissed. Well, now that it's been discovered that this undercover ERE has become a discovered ERE, are you going to apologize to those workers? Are you going to recognize him? Are you going to admit you were right? The bases are challenged, they're in justice. And we told the counselor... We asked for the presence of the councilwoman, who later at the end did not answer much, the truth, brought the director to answer us, and who we wanted her to answer was the councilwoman. Because we wanted to ask him if they had a plan B. If justice were to lay this OPE, would the seventy-nine workers, plus the forty-nine who, in their case, approved the OPE, be taken over? It was given maximum security. I, if I were a client and tried to contact a law firm, would go to the one who advises you, because the security is absolute that nothing is going to happen, that justice is going to give you the reason. I'm telling you, for me, I'd like that security! But, well, I don't have it so clear, and we'll see what happens if the judge drops the ERE and says those seventy-nine people are part of the EITB staff and they have to be readmitted. And what about those who approve the call? What are they gonna do, give them the square and then they're gonna take it off? Are you going to make an ERE later with seventy-nine plus forty-one? What exactly are they gonna do? And now it is said that the forty-nine places are the result of a rigorous analysis of the needs of professionals for the different EITB stations. It seems that these analyses had not been carried out so far. And that it is precisely the public call for employment that seeks to ensure the sustainability of Basque public radio in particular, and of EITB in general. Well, then it looks like it's possible to do the radio with fewer people. What about TV? Is it possible to make a TV too with fewer people, or is the second issue going to be TV now? And while we're talking about this, of course, we don't talk about how the radio goes and how the TV goes. From a TV with increasingly low audience rates and an increasingly scoured line to the same site. Now we are talking about the sustainability and needs of the radio, and I repeat to you what I have always said, what this group has said to the satisfaction: And why are only the needs of the radio analyzed? Why aren't the needs of the whole entity analyzed? Why isn't the entire entity's budget, the whole staff, studied? Why is it not assessed whether it is possible to optimize this template and perhaps to dispense with work done by producers, and in this way no one should be fired? Or, if after a rigorous analysis (of an analysis, not of choosing the easiest path) it is decided that the staffing is excessive, why is it not clearly stated and the consequences of that decision are assumed? Because that's rule! To govern is to decide and assume the consequences of that decision; not to speak or subterfuge, nor to cheat with language, to choose the easiest path and then to speak of "instrumental ER". No, of instrumental nothing: an ERE that does what it does is to send people to the street, which is what existed from the beginning. At first he was called regularization of staff. Translated, fired seventy-nine people. Now it's called instrumental ERE. Translation: dismissal of seventy-nine people. That's it. And, of course, it has given rise to the greatest conflict that the entity has ever suffered.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u54	Miss Llanos, go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u55	Yes, I'm finishing up, Madam President. And, look, I was telling you, ruling is making decisions and taking the consequences of them. And, of course, the decisions taken by the current management of EITB have not been possible. Then bear the consequences of them. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u56	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, president, chief officers, good morning to all. In the midst of the vortex which we have heard in the last few days, the Jest Party, in the presence of the hypocritical, informant, and opportunist attitudes of some of them, wishes to confirm the chief director of the EIB, and the entire support of his party, because the professional ends which they have in their hands are in order, and consequently because we think there is no reason to ask for any resignation. Two and a half months ago we said it, and we repeat it again: from the PNV, for institutional responsibility, we express our full support for the Director General of EITB and her team in the face of political positions that we consider electoralists, hypocrites and opportunists. Because this EITB team is developing good professional work, achieving the economic and communicative objectives of public service marked, and therefore we think that there are no serious and objective reasons to request any resignation. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that the recent public call for employment, which some want to call into question, was designed over a year ago and negotiated with the social side. It was the result of a very long and intense negotiation with the two majority unions of the Eusko Irratia Intercentre Committee, and also with the members of the EITB Board of Directors. Thus, as Mr Unzalu commented, on 29 April 2014 the board of directors approved the EPC. The agreement – I repeat, albeit briefly and even if Mr Unzalu has said so – authorised the management to hold a public job call in order to cover forty fixed positions and to amortize thirty-nine jobs as part of the process of regularizing the non-fixed indefinite. The agreement was adopted, as has been said, by a four-vote majority in favour, four abstentions and only two votes against. Ladies and gentlemen, when we voted, both the votes in favour and the abstentions, although for other reasons, which we will already be talking about, or the votes against the representatives of the People's Party, we were all very conscious of what we voted for, why we voted for it and what were the reasons for that call for employment, its philosophy and objectives. Representatives appointed by the Socialist Party abstained, did not vote against. They didn't vote against it. And Mrs Mendia's main argument on that occasion was that there were doubts as to the legal certainty of being able to organise a public call for employment given the restrictions established by Mr Rajoy's Government. You voted against, Mrs Llanos, indeed, but do not come to me to say that you now want to become champions of the defence of workers' rights, and less of EITB (and less of EITB), because what you would like – and proof of that are the subsequent statements and votes you have made in this Parliament – would be to make a bestial ERE within EITB, and to reduce it to the minimum. Those are their true intentions, and don't hide them and deceive us. This is also demonstrated by Mr Urquijo's appeal, not for the defence of the workers, but for squandering or squandering, once again, with the silence of the Socialist Party, the capacities of Basque self-government, in this case in the field of labour and the call for public offers of employment. It was a matter of the EPC giving a solution to a situation soon after the start of the socialist legislature, Mr Unzalu, when, by judicial ruling, EITB had to declare as indefinite non-fixed a series of commercial and eventual jobs. And you didn't do anything, and then I'll come back to that. And I will also return to the performance of Mr Ortuzar, who is sufficiently explained in this House and to whom, from 2003, all, from the left abertzale, passing through the Socialist Party or the People's Party, gave their absolute blessings. There is no Mrs Celaá, but, well, it was the one who intervened on that occasion. The objectives of the EPC are well known and well known: to consolidate the structural staff in Eusko Irratia into forty-nine posts; to consolidate them through a competition under the principles of merit, capacity and equality; to strengthen bilingualism on EITB radios; to modernise radio management; and to ensure its future viability and sustainability. The EPC has developed normally, and that is important to underline. And I say this because, in the face of the logical and usual claims that usually exist in such a process, all the claims (I insist that all) have been unanimously rejected by the evaluating court, which make up, among others, representatives of the unions. This demonstrates, ladies and gentlemen, the rigour and seriousness with which the OPE has been carried out. And let us not confuse interestedly or manipulate interestedly by mixing the OPE with the ERE and the EPC, etc., because in the course of this whole process, as you perfectly know and know, specifically at the end of June, the Social Plenary of the Supreme Court changed the jurisprudence when it came to amortizing jobs occupied by undefined non-fixed workers. This ruling does not alter the nature of the indefinite non-fixed, nor does it alter the full validity of the employment contract. It only affects the form to be used to extinguish contracts for indefinite non-fixed persons who have not obtained a place in the employment contract. Therefore, as you know perfectly well, we are faced with an unexpected and unexpected event. With that covert ERE, Mrs. Llanos, it's not you or Magallanes or Elcano, who's discovered the world. That was a rhetorical formula you used. It is a court ruling that involves using an ERE as a tool to properly finalize one of the parts of the public employment contract. It is therefore a strictly punctual, instrumental aspect, not initially conceived, but of binding compliance if we want the EPC to come to a full and successful conclusion. Don't let anyone cheat, no one. We all have enough information and we all recognize it and we know it: not using the ERE as a means of terminating contracts can jeopardize the job call itself. Let no one cheat in solitary. One cannot be in favour of EPC and against this instrumental and punctual ERE. That's impossible, it's inviable. The management of EITB has effectively studied all possibilities in depth, and you all know perfectly well that the ERE is legally and jurisprudentially imposed. Moreover, in spite of everything, and in this case, the ERE means offering better conditions than a mere individual and individual extinction of undefined non-fixed contracts. And why do I say this? I say this because the individual termination compensation is eight to twelve days per year worked, while the ERE route requires compensation of at least twenty days per year worked; because the ERE requires a supporting document from the EITB management to be presented to the labour authority, and because finally the ERE requires a real negotiation with the representative unions. All this requires the ERE, and not the individualized termination of contracts. The forty-nine places awarded, as well as the corresponding work bag created, have indeed been the result, Mrs Llanos, of a rigorous analysis of the professional needs of the various EITB stations. EITB radios, in this way, are going to be placed in the wave of changes in which the sector is immersed and which point in the direction of an advanced multimedia radio. Moreover, all this contributes to the objective of a bilingual radio, in line with the demand of Basque society. The carnival is coming soon, but some of them seem to have come forward for a long time, and they've been putting on masks and carriages. It seems as if everything was worth the night of the carnival, some of them here too seem to be disguised, and they want to prove that everything is worth it. I don't know if you're Christians, but if Gartuam is an institutional sense, Gartuama is to be careful and true, let's hope for some people that this attitude and attitude of Gartaram is soon reached by changing their attitude to EIB. For, alas, there have been some who have already entered the carnation with an attitude which for a long time wore a hypocrisy, an apothecism, and an apostonism.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u57	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u58	Thank you, President. We have finally signed a compromise with the Socialist Group, which includes, in addition to other issues, those which I believe are most important. On the one hand, the position of this Basque Parliament against the ERE of extinction raised in Eusko Irratia, and the request for the resignation of the Director General of EITB. And obviously everyone here will give importance to what they want to give it. We are going to explain the reasons why we again call for Mrs Iturbe's resignation. I say that there each one, there each group with its explanations, but in any case I believe that a parliamentary majority will finally be produced that will require the resignation of the Director General of EITB, because of its manifest and clearly raised inability and brought to light during the last two years. We have been calling for a real resizing of the public body for years, which was included in our amendment. A resizing of the whole entity that involves its restructuring, its resizing and its thinning. But that does not mean that we are going to endorse the layoffs that are going to be produced by the OPE and the ERE that the management is now proposing. The arguments have already been put forward by other groups, namely the People's Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi. What we have always asked for and want is the overall restructuring of EITB, so that it has the channels and stations necessary for it to be truly a public service, and above all a quality public service. For us, professionalism, plurality and impartiality are vital throughout EITB's overall policy, programming and management. And we continue to defend the same objectives that we have been defending in recent years: that we can produce a resizing of the true entity, before rigorous study and analysis of the staffing needs, but without traps, with light and stenographers. The reduction of its structure, which can truly become a quality public service, and which respects the principles of professionalism, plurality, impartiality and independence. We are going to ask again here for the resignation of Mrs Iturbe, and our fundamental reason, beyond the ERE, which is also included among the reasons why we ask for her resignation, is that the general management of EITB is at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government. For us this is the fundamental, and this is the primary reason why we propose resignation. In fact, neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party in its original initiatives directly proposed the resignation of the Director General. We do, and it has been mainly because of this, because we have repeatedly failed to comply with the principles to be governed by the public media. And this, Mr Uribe, is not an event that has occurred or unexpected, but is something perfectly planned. The principles of informational objectivity, ideological neutrality, respect for political pluralism, truthfulness, impartiality and professionalism have been repeatedly violated. Historically, we already know what EITB has intended to be and what it has been: a nationalist television for nationalists; an entity that has aimed to turn Basque citizens into Basque nationalists, which has transferred a partial and patchy view of Basque society, which has reported in a deeply sectarian way, and which has not responded to the general interest of society as a whole. The proposed ERE is one more reason to ask for Mrs Iturbe's resignation, but the truth is that the reasons, at least our reasons, accumulate over time, pile up. First was the introduction of the time map in the EITB news reports, to give the feeling and to transfer the idea that Basques, Navarros and citizens of southern France are part of the same political community; the news reports, converted into monographs of the nationalist cause, of the cause and of the nationalist program, with permanent information regarding everything that matters to the nationalist world; the account of the events in Navarre and southern France, to transfer that idea from Grand Euskal Herria. Anyway. And all this while hiding, postponing or minimizing any information that might harm the Basque Nationalist Party or the Government. There are many reasons: the programmes of debate or discussion, where the presenters are anything, but above all and above all nationalists, where the moderators are anything, but above all and above all mostly nationalists. Moderators are not moderators in EITB. They ask with double intentions, and often participate in the chats and programmes as one more that supports the sacred cause of nationalism. The penultimate fact that we have been able to denounce has been the inclusion of a Tertullian who was a member of the terrorist band ETA, nothing more and nothing less. These are the things that have been happening in EITB all this time. The distribution of the times between the different political sensibilities of Euskadi, the theme on which it is emphasized, how the topics are dealt with, the time at which the topics are dealt with, the language used, the way of narrating what is told, the moderators, the presenters, the questions that are asked, the comments... It is a cluster of circumstances that are in the sight of all those who still see or hear EITB. I say that the last thing has been the incorporation of an ex-member of ETA as a Tertullian, in this perfectly planned balance between moderate nationalism and violent nationalism. For EITB Spain is a foreign country, and the Spanish state is an oppressive state. When it is reported what happens in the Congress of Deputies, the Basques only represent us or the PNV or Amaiur, the only Basque political parties, according to the sectarian minds of EITB. There has been some other chapter in recent times: there are no Basque MEPs beyond the Basque nationalist MEPs. There aren't. And in the latest CIS survey there are no political parties beyond the People's Party, Podemos, Socialist Party, and from there the abertzale political parties. Anyway, it's quite a misconception that we're not going to accept in silence. The hearing data, which are certainly regrettable, and the OPE, and the ERE, according to the arguments already expressed by some of the spokespersons who have intervened. The matter is very simple. We are not prepared to endorse the work carried out by Mrs Iturbe all this time; on the contrary, just the opposite, we continue to denounce her and request her resignation. We are not prepared for Basque citizens to pay EUR 110 million per year for EITB to be the service that permanently assists the Basque Government and the Nationalist Party. We are not prepared, and for us this is the fundamental issue. Also the ERE, but everything else. Especially perhaps everything else, and the fact that EITB has definitely become an instrument at the service of nationalism. Mr Uribe-Etxebarria said that there are no objective reasons to request resignation. Anyway, it's your opinion. Logically, when you have a television and a radio at your service, it is logical that you have the idea in your mind and head that there are actually no objective reasons, but there are multiple reasons. There are reasons that have accumulated over time. And it is possible that this House will finally vote for the resignation of the Director General of EITB. That is where it will definitely be shown that this Parliament calls for the resignation, and therefore that there is a social majority that rejects EITB, that rejects the postulates that it has been defending and the management that has also been carrying out the direction itself. I mean, every party, every political group will have their reasons for asking for resignation. In our view, the important thing in today's plenary is that Mrs Iturbe will again be asked, in this case by a majority, to resign. Some of us have different reasons, but, in any case, we all agree that Mrs Iturbe should leave as soon as possible. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u59	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Uruzuno, representing the EH team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u60	Good morning, everyone. It's been about two years since the month of Iturbe's appointment, and in his time, the Basque People talked about the change in the direction. That this law, as far as EditiB is concerned, must be a landmark. Mudulous, seeing that EIB had played the historical minimum in the previous law, he had left the previous office very low, and now he was careful that it would be necessary to reflect a little on the conduct of the director too. And in accordance with this, although we love Iturbe himself, the Basque People, we must not offer shelter in his nomination, we have had to show some confidence in it. A trust, and an engagement derived from that trust. A commitment and responsibility. EIB is the strategic EIB for the Basque People, because beyond the usual function of a common media, there are also some unusual functions. We mean the normalization of social rockets and eucalyptus, as well as others. And on that axis we settled our trust, our support, whatever it may be. In these undertakings, and in due course of years' beauty, with the situation of the day's training, we made an engagement with it. For, you know, we've been very critical in the course of these two years, because we don't belong to a public media system, and we've been very critical of the policy of personal and hiring because it's been unfair and because EIB, besides being unjust, it's because EITB himself has plunged into difficult situations. Too many years have left him in an economically critical position. This non-pathetic situation requires a permanent regulating and normalization, and that is why we made our commitment, although we always did not succeed in doing so properly on the other side of our operation. Commitment to get out of this situation. And if we're talking about the Eus Radio affair this evening, we've been talking about a few months ago, the 5th of June, as we said in our discussion here, the problem is not only the Radio of the Basques, but the problem is extended to EITB as cancer. And those of you who have taken the word in advance seem to make a difference in this situation. You read a very consistent reading of the situation, and the position of the Basque Country which Collected has maintained so far, on the other hand, in the Diagnostic state, a general photograph, and has tried to solve this general sturvy. What's the situation? A small regiment: The managers andgestors, the system set up by Mr. Ortubes, illegal contracts, the growth of unsolved criteria responsible, artificial phibition (which has been mentioned here)... In 2012, in the administration committee, the orgygram is determined to reduce 25 percent. But this is not done: In the organigram, these gentlemen are placed at other posts, but with equal functions and equal wages. So it's not really that kind of reduction to be made. "Iturb, at the moment when he is in charge, says that these men will continue as long as he is in possession of it." And when you turn around, what's the problem, too? Where do we get to? Where we come from on the Basque Radio: "Indefiidas no fijos, infinite-finites, more and more." The artist's contracts too. Vision of work has promised to regularize: an infinite number of non-finites to understand. M4F, Mr. Ortuz is present again. A host of satellites created in the orbit of EIB, regulatives-expedents, kibras, charges on the working side, and again indefinites no fijos, infinite infijos. This time, 25 more to see. They'll have to be endured, too. And today we're talking about the Eus Radio. In the year 2003, Mr. Ortuzar made about 120 mercantic contracts, which he later rendered infinitely infinite by the inspection of Jobs: One hundred workers' structure, another 100, one hundred and twenty-five workers in an infinite number of non-infinite conditions. And even if we are speaking at the moment of 79, it is to us that we do not make any exact diagnosis of the whole situation. In his time there were one hundred and twenty-four picks, and I don't know how, at this moment, it's 79. Then, when it is said that 79th and 49th, 30 madths are offended, no, no, ladies and gentlemen; And no one said anything about it. And the question is: Were these structured? If they were structural, why not replace them? Or the other question: and if they were not of structure, how came we to have a hundred and twenty-one persons in a state of irregularity? And this is important to us because we declared an engagement with the public summons and a deal that arranged 49 jobs for once and for all. But that had a second stage, and we'd bet on the second stage when we'd finished this public call in 2016, that between directors and workers, once in a while, the planatal of the Eus radio was to be a commercial plan, which we've never done before. The treaty of the Basque People with the direction of the CEO has been given to him what hasn't been done for years. What's going on now? Derived, obligated... As it is, it announces a vision. And at the moment we believe that this stage is entirely conditioned by that second stage. It's unresistable, no one believes it, a negotiation which can be supposed to increase tomorrow on the Euskian radio, if an EIBnant is signed. And that's where our commitments end. And we want to make a bright red line in this sense. The Basque Country signed its agreement with the public calling, and we now confirm this public calling, but what we do not accept is the scene announced to end it. Our correction plainly says: Nothing out of sight. He's offering a solution to the situation right now. I mean, instead of making this negotiation in our time in 2016, we're asking you to start as soon as possible, and while we do that, we're asking you to keep all the jobs on the Eus radio right now. How long? Until you decide what the planet is supposed to be, you know? We attributed this first function to this negotiation in 2016. We believe that this is already entirely conditioned, and at the present moment we attribute the field to the negotiation which ought to be abandoned and made. And, to say this, we believe that the time of political responsibilities in our correction has come. There's no change in EIB. With personal politics, internal management, no change in EIB. In an informal line, no external projection change in EIB.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u61	Finish up, Mr. Uruzuno.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u62	We believe, then, that in this house the time has come to take political cares too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u63	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Passing on the answering round, Mr. Unzalalu is the representative of the group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u64	Yes, thank you again. Mr Uribe-Etxebarria accuses us of electoralism and even of hypocrites. But let's see, electoralism, when we've been doing all last year, all 2014, and 2015, focusing on all those issues that we think are being done wrong in the EITB entity... Because this, what is coming here today, the ERE in Eusko Irratia, is but one element of repeated mismanagement and which we have repeatedly denounced in this House. It's just one more element. It is an element that has to do with a more general context, which has to do with the editorial line, which responds exclusively to the interests of the PNV, its Government and nationalism, but which does not respond to the effort made by all Basque families to support the Basque Radio Television. It does not respond to the effort made by every Basque and every Basque, with fifty euros a year, to support this television station; a budget, which brings Basque citizenship, similar to the budget of the Barakaldo City Council. That is one of the elements, the fundamental element. And this, Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria, we didn't come to say today, not a week ago. We have said this several months ago. Several months ago. This, what is here today, is the reflection of inability... apart from mismanagement, of management's inability to reach stable agreements with anyone. He did not do so with those of us who supported him in the first instance, he has not done so with those who have supported him on a temporary basis, he has not reached stable agreements with the workers. Because, Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, you do not tell me that you have agreed on the subject of the public call for employment, because I believe that no one in this House has seen a situation of conflict greater in Basque Radio than the situation created by this. How many times have the stations been mutated for a whole day, the Basque radio stations mutated? How many times have you seen each other? Was this the agreement that the leadership had reached with the workers? This? Well, I think that's the bottom line, that's the point we bring here. The ERE, of course, is one of the most important elements, but it is the whole of the management, of the mismanagement that this leadership has done, which has led us to this situation, and what we, I insist, have been repeatedly denouncing, insisting and trying to correct for more than a year. For over a year. And you, Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria, tell us that in Mr. Surio's command at the head of the entity nothing was done. First, we must start from how the problem arises, this problem that is on the table, from the undefined non-fixed ones. This arises because Mr. Ortuzar, not applying the Law of Creation of the Radio Television entity, skips and hires a hundred people basically in two ways: making processes not subject to a public call, but to a procedure of incorporation to the entity through certain tests made ad hoc, and others in a much more direct way, with a commercial contract. The problem is there, that Mr Ortuzar and his leadership are breaking the law. Mr.Surius, you and I know – and we all know it – that he tried to solve it. What happened? That there was no agreement with the workers, that there was no agreement with the workers. And then, as we consider and continue to consider that a matter of these, an ERE, should have been that way (in this case it has been done without the consensus of the workers)... And if that problem that Mr. Ortuzar had caused did not regularize it, Mr. Surio was because he did not have the agreement with the workers. Because he didn't have the agreement with the workers, simple and plain. And I just want to say that, in fact, we abstained, but I have already given you the reasons. And when this public call for employment arises, we raise a number of issues that should have been addressed, such as the overall study of the workforce, such as the legal implications that they had... And we didn't get any cases. And, indeed, at minute two (at minute two) we considered that to be an incorrect way to solve a problem that you yourselves had generated.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u65	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mrs. Llanos, who represents the Potion of Basque Groups, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u66	Thank you. Well, first of all, I would like to ask that the compromise amendment be able to be voted on by points. Because here, Mr Unzalu, the important thing, the fundamental thing, is to show the rejection of those seventy-nine workers going to the street, the ERE paralyzing, and that there is a responsibility for management. And not a political use, talking about labor reform. Because that's why we here, despite asking for the cessation of EITB's leadership is not only because of the ERE issue, but also because of other issues, and I will not repeat them because we have said them here on many occasions. Because of the ideological direction that this house has. Because, as we have said on many occasions, it is a nationalist television for nationalists (that is, paid for by nationalists and non-nationalists), and that cannot be. But here we are going to focus on what is the issue that has brought us here, which is the subject of the ERE. And we voted against it. It is true that you abstained, then you had to realize the mistake you made and have tried, in your opinion, to amend it since then, but we from the minute one voted against, on that board of directors, which is where everything happened, there, and where it could have been prevented, Mr Urruzuno. There. But Bildu's representatives voted in favour. In exchange for what? In exchange for what? What was the agreement that you had reached? Explain it. Because you assumed, and it seems that you continue to assume, that seventy-nine workers will go to the street and that the staff of EITB will be reduced by at least thirty people. Now don't talk about if ERE, if it isn't ERE... No, no! You assumed it, and gave the vote in favour. Now, in exchange for what? What did they offer them and what have they not given them, or not fulfilled, so that, what was then worth, now is no longer worth? Because thirty places were amortized, in that decision thirty places were amortized, it was so clear, and seventy-nine people went to the street, with the excuse of demanding a linguistic profile from the premise that what society demands is an advanced and bilingual multimedia radio. We do not know whether bilingualism is really a claim of society or a political desire, primarily its own and also of the Basque Nationalist Party, considering that society..., the ratings are quite higher than those of Basque. And look, Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria, really, the victimistic rhetoric of the Basque Nationalist Party is unbearable. It's unbearable. You're always on the right middle ground, and we're all wrong. And it's unbearable that arrogance you've shown, ascribed justification to the decisions we make on the board of directors. We voted no. And we voted that not because from the minute one, after meeting with the workers, we were clear that seventy-nine people were going to be thrown into the street, and that there were going to be thirty fewer places in EITB. He hasn't told me, I guess he leaves it for the next one, so he can't answer it, the allusion to other televisions. I can imagine! But, look, I've told you before: you have to decide, and you have to assume the consequences of those decisions, and not go to the easiest. And the easiest thing was to throw these seventy-nine people and make them responsible for the disastrous management carried out by the Basque Nationalist Party. Because where have you been thirty years? Who's run public television? Who? Because you guys are experts at throwing balls out now, but who's run public television? Who's responsible? Who did not comply with the rules of access to the entity and has allowed people to be transiently thirty years, twenty years in this house? Who? Because, come on, it looks like you guys were passing by! Looks like they were passing by. You don't make any self-criticism, no self-criticism. Everything they've done has done well, and the wrong ones are the others. And with regard to OPE, with regard to OPE, the director's reason was not an attack on self-government. No! No! Conversely, he said that it made no sense for the resource, because if the ITB staff were to be reduced! If with OPE what was going to be done is that, instead of having more employees, there would be less! But, come on, attack the self-government, no. Mr. Erkoreka already leaves that every Tuesday. Well, look, I'll tell you. ETB since the arrival of this government and since the arrival of Mrs Iturbe lives the worst moment in her history, with an address and a staff faced, with ratings such as those she has, with writings wrapped with complaints, with a job management clearly disastrous, with the first general strike that has taken place in the entity, with a day of absolute silence, with seven days of informative blackout. When did that happen in the entity? And that is the responsibility of this Government and this leadership.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u67	Miss Llanos, go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u68	I'm finishing up. And it was their responsibility, it was their management, and they have done it in an absolutely bad way. And time has given us reason. What we said from the beginning, what the workers said from the beginning: this was and is an ERE. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u69	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. Uribe Housevary, the Eubertarian, representing the team. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you, ma'am. First of all, Mr. Ortuzar was mentioned when I was in prison, and let me tell you something about it. EIB, being a public man, acts as a kind of thing to say in private parts, and competes with other private means. And you all know, it's better than right, so that it has to fulfill the law for working and contracts like other radiotelebists. Because this is not a monopoly, but there are other radiotelebists and private ones. And you know that leprosy changes. And that happens to any corporation, like a private company. It's another thing, Mr. Uruzuno, I told you that our conception isn't meant to be the TV of the EIB Cuba or the Al Jaze. That's not our model. In 2003, a situation arose that was also the result of a judgment and a change in the working environment, and then a whole series of contracts of labour were passed to merchants. And Mr Ortuzar, who is quoted so much, did so with absolute consensus from the Basque Government, from the board of directors, from the trade unions, from this Parliament. And I will repeat again what on that occasion the various spokespersons, one of whom is here, like Mrs Celaá, (who I don't know if he will remember, 30 December 2003; then I remind him, don't worry), they said. And then Mrs Celaá, after all the explanations that Mr Ortuzar gave about the conversion of construction contracts into merchants, which no one questioned in the next five, six, seven years, no one questioned (now it is very easy to talk about irregularities), Mrs Celaá said: "I want to thank Mr Ortuzar's explanations". Point, and it's over. By the way, Mr. Surio also hired merchants.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u70	Messiness... URIBE-ETXEBARRIA APALATEGI jaunak: Mr.Urquijo, the one from the appeal, says: "There is no question. I would like to thank the Director General for his explanations, which we already knew through the board of directors." Mr. Urquijo, totally agree. But Jon the New Testament, at this period of Euscala, said: "I don't think we're in the presence of a laborer, and as you've even offered the information you've offered, I'm grateful." Punto. So don't come back and tell me about this Ortuzar. Please. Let's see, you had responsibilities in EITB, Mr. Unzalu. The shift from merchants to non-fixed indefinite ones took place in his mandate. Did you think about it, did you study it, did you do something? Can you confirm to me that even at the highest levels of government, in which Mrs Mendia was also involved, in addition to being responsible for public administrations, all this was addressed, studied? Why wasn't it done? No, no, You hit the kick forward, and the problem for the next ones and for those who come. You are in a strategy of confrontation, harassment and destruction. And it's an opportunistic stance, because they abstained, and then they came out as the strongest opponents to this whole process. Conflict? I'll tell you about the conflict Mr. Idigoras and Mr. Surio had in the drafting. That's a conflict. Professional conflict. People's Party. Mrs Llanos, you have not shown yourself against EPC for defending workers' rights. No, ma'am. No, no, You, in votes that have then been given here and in demonstrations that you have made..., you would love an ERE but the beast, and leave EITB in half or in a quarter of what it is. Yeah, that's what they'd like, seriously, and privatize all the autonomous televisions. And, indeed, I am not going to refer to everything they have done in Valencia, in Madrid, in Castile-La Mancha, because I do not have time, but you know that, of course, it is not a service sheet sufficiently presentable to endorse ideas regarding the management of a public television radio. The structural staff is 979, and this is what Parliament sets out. And now it's still, and with this EPC, 979, which is what it has to have. I think you went looking for an excuse. I think you're even taking a rabbit out of a joke. He's played with all of you, as well as you, loyally and with transparency. There was no deception here, Mr. Uruzuno. Not even a broken deal. No.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u71	Finish up, Mr. Uribe Housekeeper. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Yes, right away. And I wanted to say: Shouldn't those contracts we're talking about, if we're done separately, risk the planilla deal with 2016? But it's an instrumental plot? You've lost your nerve. I mean, I'm really scared, though it's amazing. And...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u72	Finishing up... URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: I think it's obvious to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u73	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Misstto-UPyD... he must not speak. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u74	In November, when we talked about Iturbe's resignation, I addressed myself at the last moment in our interference to the President, saying that our protection or our confidence price was zero, Mrs. Llanos. That's how we operate. We make a reflection, political reflection, of the moment, and we make decisions accordingly. And I can understand you're saying, "Can you get us out of this? "Say it. Maybe that's what your scheme requires, isn't it? Today is it: "P y PSE pigideron a Fernández que ayudara a Cabieces." Klaro, that's how you understand everything. And we know that the nomination of Iturbe was made at his own time in a treaty with EIBz very little. He was made between the Socialists and the Jeltists, and he was made between them. And this scheme, perhaps, is intangible among you, among all: "Te doy, where are you from? "', 'kqué es lo mío?' "'Donde qué hablamos? "... The Basque Country doesn't fit in at all like that. Never. We make some political ratings, and, according to these political ratings, Mr. Uribe Housevary, we make decisions. It's all right now, and I can understand it, I can tell you, comerallism, hypocrites, carnivals, Gartuama... Yes, yes, but the problem remains. The problem is there. And today the love of Iturbe's resignation request will rise, and we announce that we will protect the U.S.P.D. transaction. He'll get ahead of us. And there's gotta be another director, right? But the problem will remain there. And what it was supposed to be two years ago is at least possible two years later. We believe that there must be a point of inflexibility in EIB, for once in view of the disputes and agreements of a public media which this people require, both in outward and internal projections. We'll have to make a new director. And we hope that we love the thread of the nomination of Iturbe to exceed the debate we had in 2013. We said: 27 and 16, 43, it is sufficient to appoint a director; but it is not sufficient to obtain the attachment which EIB has lost on the people at this moment. And time has given us reason. Then a request. A request for all of you with that mentality: do not use your voices again for that, we do not want a Telemadrid. We hope that we don't stay in a secret agreement between parties in an agreement with little or nothing EIB. We don't want to meet with another agreement that side-interests get bigger, another PNV-PSE agreement that will close the door to the necessary discussion. We want to talk about the prioritys, the hinges and the EIB model. Give me a chance to talk about it all over. And so, if there are agreements and agreements, the Basque Country will be ready to receive all the cares and engagements that are to be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u75	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Five point in theme list: "Pull up the legal proposal of the legislatures to cancel the controls of the Civil Guard and of the Spanish police. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Arzuga, representative of the EH Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Javier Batarrita Elexpuru, killed in 1961 by the Civil Guard of Bilbon in a road control. Manuel, of the Church of Berea, killed by the Spanish police in the 1970s in a road control. Rafael Quilez Rodríguez, Puerto Rican, Bilbon Guard Zibilak was 1973an. The same year Jokin Destre Barroso, the Gastian, the Civil Guard of Fruia killed in a road control. Michael of Ubieta, the Doodie, killed by the Civil Guard in December 1974. At the beginning of 1975, Emilio Pérez Peérez, killed in Lezaman. And the same year, Maria Alexandra Leockett, German tourist, dead in Donostania on a highway control made by the National Police. A month later, Kepa Josu Ejaldi, the Civil Guard killed Luzaden. 1976, Felipe Suárez Delgado, Zarautzen was there. Gonzalo Little Moyano, 1977. Sestaokoa. "Efren Torres Abristation, 1978, Arrigin." Philip Carro Flores, Barakaldo, dead in 1978. Two days later, José Emilio Fernández Peérez, the Elderoko, the Civil Guard killed in a highway control. Diego Alpharo Orihuel, Jerez de la Frontera, murdered in 1979 on a highway control made by the police. The same year, Francisco Caballero Requejo. That year, Michael Argrei Marin, the Aranarican, dead in Latria. María Angeloes Barandia and Victorian Arican Koruntzar, husband and wife, dead Spanish detectives here in 1982, Gasteo. Three days later, Marcelo Garzaldi, that is, dead Lasart. Last two: In 1998, José Luis Lopez de Turiso, dead in Plencia, in an accident caused by the Civil Guard on a road control, and in María Jesús Amigot the Little Ot in Pasia, 2006, by accidents caused by the Civil Guard on the overhanging highway control. To deter all distrust, none of them was a millionaire of ETA: common, simple citizens. None of them has ever received truth or justice. Cases never solved. But we want to have them present, because we have memory. For you, perhaps, there will be other victims. Perhaps the victims of law enforcement, perhaps Collegated damage to antiterrorist struggle, perhaps the victims or damages of an inadequate division of function or function. That's my impression on you reading the corrections you've made, and reading this half-direction you've presented at the last moment. We've already worked the presence of the Civil Guard and the National Police in the Basque Country in this Chamber. The other day, we sent a clear message to them, urging them to retreat the security forces of the state. Good message, sharp message. This time we propose that this practice of the controls on the roads which have caused so many deaths, hundreds of wounds, and thousands of thousands of wounds, has been effected by this initiative. We're saying with perfect dignity that these military controls, these controls which are still maintained, these controls which are reality for today, must be permanently removed. That's why we give three arguments. To observe these dreadful situations in the past, and to guarantee them not to repeat them to-day, because in these controls the rights of persons are yet broken without any justification, and also that it is an implicit access to the hands. Three arguments we see linked to each other. Three reasons to reject with total firmness the controls still carried out today by the Civil Guard and the Spanish police in this country. The first, because of that bloody past that accompanies the controls, in recognition of the victims they generated, and to ensure that what happened never again will happen at the real – rather than real – risk of it continuing to happen. Because that present presence, with profusion of weapons of war, with its military equipment and its prepotence, keeps the aggravation alive. It is a reality that we cannot perpetuate, now also without excuse in which to be able to shelter. ETA cannot be an excuse for these interventions, after three and a half years since he left the armed struggle. Controls against ETA without ETA, controls without any obvious reason or objective, if not to maintain the coercion, coercion, image and symbolology, so much of the pleasure of some, of occupied territory that is moved through the military controls of the GAR. The second of the reasons is because these controls violate citizens' rights. These controls do not have a preventive safety objective, they do not prevent crimes. Nor palliative. They do not occur in persecution of those alleged to have perpetrated anything. In fact, they do not pursue anything in particular, nor do they seek to prevent or evade crimes. They do not persecute anyone individualized, unless they consider the entire Basque society suspicious, the entire Basque citizenship possible target of persecution, all and all presumed guilty. Unwarranted, absurd practices that only convey a sense of authoritarianism and prepotence. In the style of other operatives we have seen in recent weeks, no more than an obscene armed propaganda. Its effectiveness is null and void, if it is not to further restrict the rights of freedom of movement of citizens, if it is not to propitiate a space for verbal, physical aggression, for violation of the integrity of the person, to seize anything, any property (political material or any other kind), to attack the person's right to his private life and his honour, by subjecting him to an unwarranted atmosphere of harassment, a situation of harassment and absolute contempt. Third and last, because these controls involve a competitive invasion, because they do not have a legal permit to be implemented. True, but certainly the least revealing of the arguments. It is a legalistic, institutional argument, which is precisely what the PSE and the PNV seem to have invoked in their amendments, obviating any other. I would say that the PSE even went a little further, because in its first amendment to the whole it spoke of dysfunctions, something that even disappears from the final text of the compromise amendment. I'm not going to stay long with the examples in the comparison area. In other States, which are not naturally highly developed (for instance, on the systems of Germany or of the United States), the end is not enough to make a control, because the end does not justify everything. It takes a bribe, a sous rated, customed, precise, and identified person. Here, with the ends of security placed above the rights of persons, we are all souspes, the victims of a control, and every man. We want EH Collect to disappear on our roads, on our mountains, on our streets, these military controls we still see in our villages. We want to demilitate the Basque Country in an integral manner. We want the gravity that the armed propaganda supposes to disappear once and for all. It's reported that almost 3,000 checks have been made last year, or at least that's what they say has been detailed to the bordering. Some of them have created dangers because of the bad position determined to place controls: in the forums, bends, tunnels... Two of these controls, placed in Eilan and the tunnels of the Crusades, produced accidents. The risk is three thousand years old. This is what it is, and this cannot be delivered into the hands of chance. "The chief of the Herdian de Heredia department recently urged us to present this initiative." "Old formulas for new realities," he said. He assured that these controls continue to cause discomfort, affectation to people and even aversion. He said that citizens have the right to express that discomfort and discomfort, citizens and citizens that must be addressed. These were the words of the counselor, and that was precisely what we wanted to bring today through this initiative: to attend to that citizen's perception, to transfer that sensitivity, to transfer that feeling to this House. And it was true that we had hardly any of the expressions used by the counselor ("molestias", "affecting people", "disease", "aversion"...), but none of this was found in the proposal that PNV and PSE have had, neither a term of reproach for these controls, nor a term of reproach for this military presence, and that is why we will not support it. Everything is justified in the name of security, especially if it is the safety of the state. The safety of the person, because the reason of the state is superior to the logical reason, because the rights of the state are placed above the liberties of men, and other interests, which, at another time, seek to perpetuate themselves in some other context. It's not a good time for people's freedoms and rights. This follows from the "pacto antiterrorist" that PSOE and PP have recently signed. This compact gives them more excuse, renewed justification, to increase such military control in our territory. New alarms created artificially will re-bridge human rights. New alarms will cause new dangers. And my question is: What will you do then, Mr. and Mrs. EAJ? Hide behind hands even then? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u77	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u78	Thank you, President. Finally, Mr Arzuaga is not concerned about unemployment, he is not concerned about job insecurity, inequality, evictions, social cuts or political corruption. Nor does Mr Arzuaga worry about ETA, either now or before; nor about its dissolution, nor about its delivery. Mr Arzuaga is also not concerned about criminals, drug trafficking or international terrorism, some of the issues that they intend to deal with police controls. Mr Arzuaga is concerned about the police controls themselves, and in particular, and to put it more strictly, Mr Arzuaga is concerned about the National Police and the Civil Guard. In conclusion, Mr. Arzuaga is not concerned about criminals. Mr. Arzuaga is concerned about those state security forces and bodies that fight criminals. Mr. Arzuaga never cared about ETA, nor about the murders committed by the terrorist band ETA. Mr. Arzuaga was always concerned about the implementation of police controls to fight and arrest criminals. And from this absurd statement of reasons lists the possible or alleged disadvantages of police controls being put in place by the National Police and the Civil Guard. He's talking about deaths, he's talking about accidents, he's talking about human rights violations, he's talking about abuse, he's talking about discomfort, he's talking about discomfort... Man, discomfort and discomfort yes, but everything else is an absurd fallacy, a great lie, a cluster of falsehoods. The controls carried out by the National Police, the Civil Guard and the Ertzaintza are indispensable for combating criminals. And from that argument – facilitated, by the way, in part, by the counselor, who is not now – what he proposes is to abolish them, especially the controls carried out by the National Police and the Civil Guard, but he also points out, by copying the counselor, that because of the way and intensity with which these controls are carried out by the National Police and the Civil Guard. Should Mr. Arzuaga be asked how the police checks should be carried out by the National Police and the Civil Guard? Do you imagine Mr. Arzuaga as an adviser to the Civil Guard and the National Police for the assembly and above all the dismantling of police controls on the road? Does anyone think we'd be safer if Mr. Arzuaga was the last person responsible for prosecuting the criminals? Anyway, I think we were going to shake all the peaceful and decent citizens of Euskadi. Mr Arzuaga, I have no doubt that you have certain knowledge of certain ways, but the truth is that I prefer to leave this matter in the hands of professionals and also in the hands of the Ertzaintza, the National Police and the Civil Guard. But the problem, in my opinion, is not so much what the EH Bildu group is going to say here or to pose. We already know he's trying to get the National Police and the Civil Guard out of Euskadi. We already know what his trajectory was. The problem here, in my opinion, is who led this debate, and the answer is obvious. Whoever pushed this issue, who questioned the implementation of these police controls, is simply the answer: it was the Basque Government's own Security Adviser who, in an absolutely irresponsible and gratuitous way, in the end, pushed this controversy that is now being raised by the EH Bildu group. The gauntlet is therefore collected by the brute brothers of nationalism, in order, ultimately – and that is their fundamental objective – to continue to discredit or attempt to discredit the National Police and the Civil Guard. What did the Security Advisor say, and, above all, where did she say it? The Security Advisor said that there is an anger among Basque citizens because of the controls that the Civil Guard installs in Euskadi, because of the inconveniences that they generate. Do you think this is serious, that this is being transferred by the Security Advisor herself? But not to have him transferred to the relevant Security Board, not to have him see it or to have him put to the ministry, but to do so in a radio interview. This is, in our view, the censorable thing: that the Security Advisor on a radio should say that the controls of the National Police or the Civil Guard are absolutely unnecessary, are badly set in motion, and only cause annoyance to the whole citizenry. This is what is serious, for the Security Advisor herself to say, and for the radio to say it absolutely free of charge. I think by doing merit, I imagine, between the parish abertzale. We asked the councilwoman herself about this issue, and she said in this House that "since the Ertzaintza we consider that certain controls of the Civil Guard and the National Police, as they are being carried out, as they are being carried out today, in the way and manner in which they are being carried out, do not have sufficient justification from the point of view of the operational security they are allegedly pursuing." This is what the Security Advisor said. And we said to him, "Why don't you make the corresponding call to the minister so that you can discuss this issue?" Why is the Security Board not convened so that they can discuss this issue there? Why, moreover, did you refuse to attend a security board that the minister himself had convened? It's very simple: because the Security Advisor didn't want to solve any alleged problems, but what she thought was appropriate was to create controversy, gain points between the parish of Abertzale, and ultimately harm and discredit the National Police and the Civil Guard. And I was saying to the councilwoman herself in a full control: "She has questioned and attacked the professionalism of the Civil Guard, and she has done so in an irresponsible way. That was his last goal, propaganda. You don't talk to the minister," I asked the Security Advisor, "do you have your phone? Why are you acting so irresponsible? Why do you put it that way? Why don't you talk to the minister and explain all this to him? Because what you're trying to do is advertise. Because you don't care to solve a problem or a supposed problem, but what you're worried about is discrediting the National Police and the Civil Guard." And because he wants to win votes among the most radical abertzale bench, and because he would surely seek the applause of the most radical. Maybe because of their own complexes. Therefore, I say, in our opinion it is of no greater relevance that EH Bildu comes to propose this to us now; his initiative will be rejected. The problem, the serious thing, is that it was the counselor herself who pushed this debate for free. The councilwoman throws the stone, hides the hand; EH Bildu proposes an initiative that includes some of the arguments put forward by the councilwoman herself, and finally the Basque Nationalist group signs with the Socialist Group a transactional, which is the one that will come forward. And all this for what? And all this for what? It seems to us a huge irresponsibility. Indeed, the Socialist Group, which actually tabled an amendment that went even further than the amendment itself put forward by the Basque Nationalist Group, proposes that this Parliament consider that the controls carried out by the State Security Forces and Bodies should be based on respect for the competition system set out in the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy, but adds that it should also maintain the appropriate proportionality between the security objectives pursued and the means adopted, in frequency and intensity, with the aim of ensuring the security and normal development of the life of citizens. And I would like to ask the Socialist Group whether it has any data, any report or any kind of information that would make it say that this is not the case, or whether, finally, it simply trusts and gives credibility to the demagogic and gallery statements put forward by the Councilwoman herself. Finally, do they give credibility to what Mr Arzuaga has to say here? Do you give credibility to what the counselor proposed? Do you have any reports or studies to say that these controls are not actually being carried out properly? What data do you have? And, although you have signed a transactional that we are going to reject, at last, I believe those questions remain, and you can, if you want, answer them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u79	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Ares has the word that the Basque Socialist represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will confess to you that after hearing Mr Arzuaga's intolerable and unacceptable suffocation I have been tempted not to even intervene, because you cannot make such serious accusations without being endorsed, and you make terrible accusations against the Civil Guard and the National Police that are not endorsed. But in the end I decided to make the intervention I had planned, because there is no greater contempt, in the face of actions as irresponsible as yours, than passing from them, or passing as quickly as possible from them. And I will start my speech as I planned, saying that the Basque Socialists have never been left, we have no left, nor will we have the presence of the National Police and the Civil Guard in Euskadi. First because they have assigned competences in our laws that oblige them to fulfil their responsibilities also in Euskadi. But, second, because the police and the Civil Guard have our utmost respect, our utmost consideration and gratitude, for the task they have carried out and carried out in Euskadi under very difficult circumstances. Because they have fought in the front line against terrorism until its disappearance, they have defended democracy, freedom and the rule of law against those who wanted to put an end to democracy, freedoms and the rule of law. The agents of the National Police and the Civil Guard have had to endure unjust attacks, insults, social isolation by a large part of Basque society. They have paid a high price, with the lives of the agents, of the many agents who have been killed for fulfilling their responsibility and their work, for defending – I insist – freedoms, democracy and the rule of law on this earth. And we have an obligation to recognize that work, and also to say once again that many citizens, yes, many citizens owe them, we owe to the Civil Guard and the National Police, like the Ertzaintza, to have ensured our security, to have prevented us from being killed. That is why we are not going to contribute to that campaign which is coming from so far away, in which it is proposed that they go away, because we simply do not agree. We, I insist, want the Police and the Civil Guard to carry out their tasks here, those assigned to them in the laws, which are to fight terrorism, whatever its sign; the surveillance of ports, airports, coasts, borders; control of entrances and exits; passports, IDs, weapons and explosives, and drug trafficking. But, having said that, with the same clarity, we also say that we once again defend Ertzaintza as an integral police force and defend its competences. And that the Government of Spain cannot, as is the case we are discussing, maintain a proliferation of roadside controls which, in our view, are not justified in intensity or amount, and less in the situation in which we are now living. And this isn't new. It is true that we told the Government of Spain when we had government responsibilities in Euskadi. This is how we communicated it to the ministry to tell it that we had to address these and other issues in which, from our point of view, the competences of Ertzaintza as an integral police force could be being invaded. That is why, and in line with what we did when we ruled, today we also have an initiative, which has subsequently been transformed into a compromise amendment, which calls for absolutely reasonable things. First, that the various branches and security forces of the State (the Police, the Civil Guard, the Ertzaintza and the local police) should be followed up and carry out their work with strict compliance with the competences assigned to them. Secondly, that, taking into account the new time we live in, roadside controls are adapted in frequency and intensity, in order to achieve two things that are fundamental: one, to guarantee security, yes, but also to develop the normality of citizen life when it is possible to guarantee security. And thirdly, as we want these issues to be resolved, and not for the political re-affirmation or confrontation, that the Security Board be convened as soon as possible to address these issues and to seek solutions for the further coordination of the work of the Civil Guard, the National Police, the Ertzaintza especially, and also, when necessary, the local police, I reiterate, each strictly fulfilling the competences assigned to it. That is why I ask the House to take into account the content of the compromise amendment and the explanations that we are giving, and not some of the debates that are taking place in this House, which have little to do with this initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ares. Eubertarians have their word, Mr. Iturate, representing the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u82	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. On the 13th of June last year, the whole Union Union demanded reorganization of the Civil Guard and the National Police. In the same arrangement, he requested that the Security Committee should assemble, and that the criteria of retreating the security forces should be established. It wasn't the first time to ask for one of these, and, unfortunately, after nearly eight months, we've gone on. The cause and the hour of today's debate are not exactly the same, but what is at the bottom is the same. The execution of the law, and the retrogring of the state's security force. Today, EH Collect has a theme of road control. This also was lately in the gathering of the whole subject, as Mr. Manisro has said. At the request of UPD and Popular Party last November, the head physician explained matters right here. And we agree with what the chief physician said then, and we make a complete agreement. We accept it from top to bottom and make our own words, Mr. Maniro. We must not, therefore, prolong too much, and give new explanation, much less repeat the hours, as you have done to-day. In order to stop any police, and control causes disturbances in the community, even here and at the end of the world. It naturally follows, that for the safety of all, some slight injury should ever be received, but in a mature democratic community these evils must be moderated, and always adapted to a definite and advantageous end. The question is, therefore, not whether they have or not, but whether they retain the sufficient justification and proportionalness, and seem not to be so in our case. The police ratio of the Spanish State is the highest in Europe, according to the data of the SUP union: Five, four, one thousand people. Basque Autonomical Society, 6,9 police per 1000, the highest proportion of the European Union. And apart from the exceptions which are not comparative, the highest part of the world is the double proportion of the States which are allied to the European Union. Here are some examples: In Germany, like 2,9, in France 3,5, Ireland 2,6, Belgium, 3,7, Finland, 1.4. Ours is six, nine. As if this were but little, they work, instead of acting according to the law, in several different works, which are not according to the order of the security of the state. The number and modes of controls established during the year are clearly expressed, and we often see on our roads certain functions and actions which have no relation to port, airports, coasts, and limits, or to any other jurisdictions of their own; such as that which takes place every Thursday. In 2013 and 2014, averagely, the Civil Guard has established 10 controls a day, which is at least communicating to the Security Department. They don't seem to suit their competitations. They have no reason either in number or in manners. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that the number and operation of the numerous controls carried out mainly by the Civil Guard on the Basque roads are not justified, nor do they respond to the competences which they have legally recognised. And of course, the annoyances they create in citizenship are not proportionate to the objectives they allegedly pursue. Ten daily controls, with the security situation in Euskadi, on the part of the Civil Guard is an obvious excess, and it is clearly more evident when compared to that is the number of palliative controls and of that intensity that the Ertzaintza comes to put in a year. All this, therefore, justifies the amendment that we are submitting to this House for consideration. An amendment based on scrupulous respect for legality, established jurisdictional division and the consideration of Ertzaintza as the integral police of this country. Euskadi is a safe country, with a safety rating of 10 out of 10 by the OECD, with crime rates below the European average, and a much higher ratio of police per capita. There is no justification for maintaining the number of National Police and Civil Guard personnel in Euskadi, nor for the roadside controls they establish. No reason. The one that might exist stopped doing so more than three years ago. However, the Spanish Government refuses to respond to reality, refuses to comply with the law, and listens deafly to the opinion of this Parliament in matters within its competence. In this regard, the Spanish Government has become an insumious government. I take up the law that says to defend with more impetus than anyone else, also reaching the extreme discourtesy of refusing to convene the Security Board, as the Security Council and this Parliament have repeatedly requested almost eight months ago. It is impossible, Mr Maneiro, materially and metaphysically impossible, for the councilwoman to say anything to the Minister of the Interior on the Security Board, because he refuses to convene it. Well, despite this submission, despite the discourtesies, the Spanish Government's lack of commitment to the Ertzaintza as an integral police force, we will neither cease nor cease to strive. And that is why we will be voting again today for respect for the law, for respect for the Statute of Autonomy, for respect for Ertzaintza as an integral police force, and for institutional respect between governments, and against the submission of the Minister of the Interior and the central government. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u83	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Mrs. Llanos, who is the representative of the Popula, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u84	Thank you again, Madam President, and now good afternoon almost. Look, I was bringing an intervention here, which I am partly going to make clear, and one of the first questions I was going to raise is that this proposal had a clear political background. But it is not that it has a political background; it is that, although it is true that you, Mr Arzuaga, speeches such as you have often made in this House, what you cannot consent to is, precisely because it is customary for you to do so in this House, to let go of the seriousness of what you have said here. The speech you made here today is absolutely outrageous. Indignant. Besides being overreacting, it's outrageous. He's read a series of names from a series of people, and I challenge him to one thing: read the nearly a thousand names of those killed by ETA, and condemn their murder. Because, look, if there are responsibilities in those deaths that you have reported here, we are the first to say that those responsibilities are given, but of those nearly a thousand people the responsibility was ETA. Well, you here, today, condemn ETA. And I must tell you that the first thing that draws our attention – of course the counselor has already put it on a tray – is that she only talks about the controls carried out by the Civil Guard and the National Police, and not about those of the Ertzaintza, to which I will refer later in the reply. Because you, like her and the Basque Nationalist Party, don't care about controls. What concerns them is the colour of the uniform of the person who carries out those checks. It is the only thing that concerns them, the only thing, because the carrying out of police controls by these two police forces is perfectly in line with the law and fits with the competences they have. And we, from this group, have always been committed to the collaboration between the police forces, to taking advantage of the synergies between the different police forces, a collaboration that must always be carried out, focusing on the collaboration and not using partisanly that collaboration. References to the proportionality between frequencies, means and intensities must be made by professionals of the environment, and we believe that the Civil Guard and the National Police have large doses of professionalism. And here was Mr. Ares saying that you weren't going to be the one to determine them. Neither does Mr. Iturrate! Believe me, I rely more on the experience and professionalism of the police forces themselves than on yours (of course, none), but not on Mr Iturrate's. Because we are convinced that the conduct of such controls is in accordance with proportionality criteria, such as all police actions, and if they escape proportionality, the rule of law has the means to denounce this lack of proportionality. You've built an artificial bubble. They used... Well, his initiative was full of interested exaggerations. They spoke of verbal or physical violence, violations of rights and freedoms, violation of the right to freedom of movement and physical freedom. But in his speech he has no longer made exaggerations, no: he has made an absolutely petty, and absolutely unacceptable, intervention. They try to move – and that too other groups – that here... Well, you've also talked about the damned past, the LAG commands, the weapons of war, the military occupation, trying to move the image that we're practically taken here, that we live in a police state. And they are also trying to move that there is a widespread complaint (every day all citizens are complaining about the large number of controls there are), and that there are so many controls that daily work cannot be carried out with absolute normality on the part of citizens. And they also come to say – more you than the Nationalist Party – that citizens' rights and freedoms are seriously harmed. I'm telling you, they're trying to distort the existing reality. Anyone would think that in the sociological studies that are being done, when people are asked about their concerns, we are going, given what has been said here, it seems that in one of the first places police controls have to be, because citizens have so many complaints, and they are so deeply disturbed in their normal daily activity, that, come on, they would have to express themselves as one of the main concerns. And it's not, because that's basically part of some people's obsessions. His obsessions fundamentally, but also shared by the Basque Nationalist Party itself. And they are obsessions not about controls, but about the Civil Guard and the National Police. And you spoke, Mr. Arzuaga, of outdated methods, and of the past. Those who remain continually in the past, in a past that they are unable to condemn, are you. You guys. Those who are unable to move forward, because they remain anchored in that past, it is you. Those who fail to update the claims to modern times are you. Because they represent this country's most expired and most nightly speech, and yours, here today, the most regrettable. Controls are a practice that is used in all countries (it seems that they are only carried out in Spain!), and one example has been the controls that the French gendarmerie carried out in the case of the murders in Charlie Hebdo magazine. Murders that, as you might expect, you didn't condemn, either. The gala police, in their attempt to arrest the culprits, carried out numerous checks. What's the difference? For no party in France questioned this type of police action, none, because what was intended with them was to guarantee the security and freedom of the citizenry, and everyone made it clear. But you don't. For you and some others it seems that carrying out controls is an implacable persecution. And in you it is normal, because they always justify the criminals, and charge the inks against those who defend the order and the law. From this group we will defend the police practice of controls, because we understand that, beyond the nuisances (which yes, that we also recognize that they can cause discomfort to citizens), it must be the security professionals who determine how many and which controls are needed. Because we will always support measures that tend to combat crime, and that maintain, yes, an adequate proportionality between the purposes and the means used for it. And it is that here – and I said it before – underlies an old question that is historic for nationalism. The councilwoman herself complained in her day about the controls, and she has given the alibi for the presentation of this initiative, but this is only an excuse. It is an excuse to put back on the table what we have heard for so long, which is nothing other than the "Alde hemendik", the "Get out of here". Today it's the controls, tomorrow it'll be something else, but it's the same, Mr. Iturrate. Always the same. And we will always oppose any initiative in this regard. We are not going to tolerate the fact that it is scorned, as has been done here today by Mr Arzuaga, neither the name of the police nor the good name of the Civil Guard, nor of the Ertzaintza. Because there are those in this country who have systematically violated human rights, with the complicit silence, still silent to this day, of you. And others, including the Ertzaintza, the Civil Guard and the National Police, have done precisely to safeguard those rights and freedoms. And it is obvious that it is impossible to reach an agreement with you, because we do not speak the same language. We're in the antipodes of politics. Because, while for us the police forces as a whole are a fundamental element of the rule of law and a guarantor of rights and freedoms, for you they are repressive bodies, which do only violate those rights. Because while for you the different cops, as I tell you, only serve to violate rights and not to protect them, we will hardly speak the same language. Because as long as you continue to invest the role between those who defend the law and those who violate it, of course, our capacity for dialogue is null and void. And there are a number of premises that are basic in any society...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u85	Miss Llanos, go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u86	(Yes, I'm finishing, Madam President.) ... democratic, and one of them is the recognition of the fundamental role of the State Security Forces and Bodies as defenders of our freedom and security. Without the recognition of that premise, believe me, you and we, null dialogue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u87	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u88	Thanks again. I'll try to respond in order. Izan ere, Maneiro jaunak tells us that it worries or does not worry what I bring or stop bringing into this House. However, you acknowledge that it was also an issue of which you made an inquiry to the counselor, which brought him to full control. Therefore, some type of interest will also have on it. And it also tells me that my claims are based on falsehood, lies, fallacy and demagogy, when I have found the existence of mortal victims in these roadside control practices. Perhaps, as you say in your amendment, you will want to defend and thank the work of the Civil Guard and the National Police. In any case, they will be acts of recognition that they will be able to do once they have disappeared from our streets, from our roads, from our villages, because this is the way to which they are taking up. Mr Ares told me that the statements I made with the particular mention of these twenty-one people were not endorsed. And I have to tell you that I don't know if these will be serious accusations, but some of them are also endorsed by that commission of valuation of the Political Motivating Victims Vulnerations Decree that you boast of being the driving force. It is therefore true that they have little backing and that few of them are still endorsed, but let us try to work more deeply to endorse them and to give them the recognition and reparation they deserve. And also – that is the element that we bring to this debate today – the guarantee that what they suffered will never again be suffered and suffered by anyone else. Mr. Iturete. It's true, it's a matter of self-control, and it's true that the law is broken, but that's the only way you're confined to it. And it's not just what the law says, that's not the point. It's not just a manual, it's not just a consistent distribution. That's a little bit of what Erko answered about the final opera. This is the Civil Guard, in which case the lawyers were to be arrested, and Mr. Erkoa said it was a matter of competition, he called "desleila competecial." But the problem was another; the motive, the reason, is the reason, the end, the end of these operations. And in this case, what is the aim of controls? That's what I want to ask. You say there's no reason either. Well, that's exactly what I was planning here. If there's no reason, if there's no end, then what's behind it? And therefore I say it is here that I keep an armed symbol, in order to preserve some kind of occupation in this country. I'm surprised you've talked about proportionality. It inspires me with a question, and it is: who marks the place of proportionality? , who defines this proportionality? Because you are asking the representative of the Spanish Government, the representative of the Spanish Government in Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia, to intervene in this matter. Nork zehazten due proportionality? Barne ministerak, Llanos anderek? Nork? Yellow urquijo? I want to remind you, Mr. Iturate, that in the 19th of December 2013 we decided to reject firmly the conduct of the registrar government, because it reduces the fundamental rights and liberties of the people: "The legislative demands that the figure and power of the government should disappear." And today you appeal to him because you challenge him not to eliminate the controls of the Civil Guard and the National Police, but to adapt them to an proportional proportion of balance. I don't know if you think he should decide that proportionality. I'm done. Right, we're at the "Let's go!", "Alde hemendik!". I'm from "Alde hemendik!". However, that was not the proposal we were bringing here either. You tell me, Mrs. Llanos, that I distort reality. The reality: 3,000 controls per year, 150,000 road controls based on anti-terrorist reasons in the last 50 years, 500 million per year in the State Security Forces and Bodies, if you prefer to give the dimension in another way. You tell us about the past (somos "incapaces de avanzar"), but we have a will: This people, demilitating this land. We see that some have a will in it, and are already taking steps in this way. You don't want others to demilitate yourself, you don't want them to demilitate others. In this we see what has a builder's position, and what is not in this country but the inconveniences of peace and fellowship.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u89	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u90	Yes, thank you, President. No, Mr. Arzuaga, you misunderstood me. I asked her that question, that parliamentary initiative, not because I was worried about the controls of the National Police and the Civil Guard, but because I was worried about her statements on a radio about those controls. I am not at all concerned about the controls that the National Police and the Civil Guard can carry out, and I do not believe that they are at all a fundamental problem of Basque society, which is what you have come here to raise. And that's the shame, that as a result of a series of statements that didn't come to light, from the Security Advisor herself, today we have to be wasting time, debating matters that only interest the world of the left abertzale. That is the problem, that is the drama: that this Parliament, instead of solving the fundamental problems that citizens have and that society has, has to re-debate absurd issues that are only of interest to EH Bildu and that have as their sole purpose not to improve the lives of anyone, but to harm, denigrate, discredit the National Police and the Civil Guard. That's the drama. And I suspected, indeed, that those statements were going to have consequences, and the consequences are these: that you pick up the glove thrown by the Security Advisor herself when she made those statements. Indeed, Mr Arzuaga's sophlamas and very serious statements are the sole and sole responsibility of Mr Arzuaga, of course, but it was the councilwoman who gave rise to it (and Mrs Llanos has expressly said "It is put on a tray, it is put on a tray") that the representative of EH Bildu now presents this initiative, and includes in her own justification some of the arguments put forward by the councilwoman herself. That is the penalty, that we are again debating issues that are only of interest to EH Bildu and that have this objective: ultimately discrediting the National Police and the Civil Guard. And I think that you, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, did not have to have entered your game of questioning the controls of the National Police and the Civil Guard. They didn't have to have gotten into that game. Because the political referendum that someone was talking about is already a fact, and, I say, it was driven by the Security Advisor herself, and you – more so, certainly – keep him alive in your compromise amendment. I think they did not have to have entered their political game, therefore, because it is also well known that the idea and purpose of EH Bildu is not to improve those controls, it is not to improve the security of citizens, it is not to attend to the problems of the people, but to mess up, to mess up and to discredit the State Security Forces and Bodies. That is why I am still defending my amendment, in which we propose that this Parliament defend and thank the work done by the Civil Guard and the National Police in Euskadi; that it rejects the recent criticisms made by the Security Adviser regarding the controls that both bodies have been carrying out in Euskadi; and that it urges the department itself and the Government to make any discrepancies, concerns or complaints on the relevant security board. I believe that this should have been based on a compromise: support for the National Police and the Civil Guard; any discrepancies, any problems, which are discussed internally in the Security Board, which certainly does not call it UPyD. This is what I think should have been done. I believe that this was the most appropriate way to respond to EH Bildu's soflamas: to defend the Civil Guard and the National Police. Mr Iturrate said that "We will vote in favour of respect for the law", that "We will vote in favour of respect for the Statute, respect for Ertzaintza and respect for institutional loyalty". Perfectly respectable and correct, and logically we respect it. But they could also have voted and can vote in favour of the National Police and the Civil Guard, to recognize what these bodies have done throughout their history. Not for nothing: because just EH Bildu claims otherwise, and since EH Bildu comes here to discredit the National Police and the Civil Guard, it would have been very good for the rest of the political parties to have agreed a compromise to defend the National Police and the Civil Guard. Mr. Arzuaga, the Civil Guard and the National Police are not going to disappear from our streets. They will continue to be here, present among us, because they are indispensable, because this is their home, and because Euskadi is part of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u91	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists. Mr. Ares, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u92	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Arzuaga, you yourself in your speech acknowledge that you do not mind lying, depending on information that is not contrasted, to support your arguments. Because you have said in this rostrum that these twenty-one cases that you have quoted must be contrasted, and I would like to see if we are willing to make the effort to contrast them, yes, but it shows that in any case you yourself acknowledge that they are not contrasted. And you – I refer to your intervention – already make them clear, because you have accused the Civil Guard and the National Police of killing them. And that shows his squid, his moral squandering and his lack of ethics once again. It shows that they are willing to use everything to sustain their contempt campaigns, to defend their positions. And everything isn't worth it in democracy. It's not all good in democracy. You have to have a little rigor, a little respect and veracity in what you say and do, and once again it becomes clear that rigor and veracity is what is missing from you, and a part of your group's colleagues. Look, you have embarked once again on a campaign of contempt and harassment with a matter that must be dealt with rigorously. And we have tried, Mr Maneiro, Mrs Llanos, to treat it rigorously, despite that intolerable and infamous intervention. And, no matter how hard they stick, I'm sure neither the Civil Guard nor the National Police are going to leave. They will continue to fulfil their competences here in Euskadi. And what we demand is that some comply strictly, those who have assigned, which is what differentiates us from you. Because, Mrs. Llanos, allow me a clarification. It's not that the gentlemen of EH Bildu don't want controls from the Civil Guard or the National Police. No, don't be mistaken. They don't want anyone's controls. Neither the Civil Guard, nor the National Police, nor the Ertzaintza. They don't want controls. That is the difference between those who defend that the State Security Forces and Bodies have a fundamental task to defend freedoms and the rule of law and have to guarantee the security of the people, of those who would like to camp on their own, as they have always wanted throughout their history. That's what makes us different from each other. That's why we shouldn't be wrong. And, Mr Maneiro, I ask you to read the compromise amendment in detail, because it says very reasonable things, that you yourself have referred to them in this rostrum: that every police force, Civil Guard or Ertzaintza, or other police officers, strictly adhere to their competences, that coordinate their actions, that guarantee the safety of all citizens, but that this guarantee of security must always be made with proportionality, adjusted to the needs at every moment. And that's what we're trying to get done on the Security Board. Very simple things. Make it clear what our position is, and ask that that resolve the problems where they have to be solved, which is on the Security Board.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ares. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u94	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. Mr. Arzuga, we shall have the right to establish our arguments ourselves, and what means and how we make our ends. In any case, our goal now and then is to defend the edge of the border as an integral police officer and actually have been the integral police force of our town and become what it is. That's precisely what's hard for you guys, who don't agree with you, because you don't eat what you can't, because you don't share with the edge and you don't admit that the border has been an integrated police force of this town. You've never been loyal to it. Not only do not act faithfully: on the contrary, in every way. In civilian and military strategy, in every way, you have opposed it. There are paradoxies who have been involved in the political scale of strategy for years and years in making a speech towards demilitation in this tribe. Don't cheat, Mr. Arzuaga. We ask Mr. Urquijo no guarantee in proportionalness, nothing. What we're asking Mr. Urquijo is the Civil Guard and the police to work at their meetings and not all the others. That's what we're asking him to do. And we're asking him because he's the leader of the Civil Guard and the National Police. So don't cheat me on this debate. I already knew that this was going to happen, that some were going to sing the "Let's go." It is precisely in this rostrum that you sing it always those who say they are against you leaving, but you always end up singing that song, Mrs. Llanos. What I think is that what you would really like to sing is the famous zarzuela of "The Jewish Child", which is what is behind all your argument: "From Spain I come, from Spain I am, and my face saw is saying it. I was born in Spain, I am Spanish." And that is in the end the argument that moves you, that makes you always position yourself, closing and tightening the ranks behind the Civil Guard and the National Police, and not understanding and not accepting that the Ertzaintza is the integral police of this country. Look, indeed, of course, in France controls were put in place after the attacks on Charlie Hebdo! Of course, and everywhere in the world! But in the last few years there have been no attacks of any kind. And the counselor said it in full control, and today I'm going to bring the graphic sample of what she said. Look, you guys click on the Internet "Civil Guard Controls in Spain," and you'll get this. This is a Civil Guard control in Spain. And type in "Civil Guard Controls in Euskadi," and you'll get this. (Argazki batzuk erakutsi ditu) Tell me if this is comparable; if the modes, the proportion of numbers, weapons, etc., are justifiable, are justified. Well, you don't have to... Mr Iturrate will not be the smartest in this House, he may not be up to it either, but, let's just say that this is not proportional, that this has no justification, that this has nothing to do with the powers that the Civil Guard and the National Police have assessed in the Statute of Autonomy (ports, airports, immigration, borders)... Especially when they put all these controls in. If they put them on the Bridge of Biriatou, then it could still be understood that they are within the immigration skills, but every Thursday on the Areta toll of the A-68... You don't have to be a security expert to know that that's an absolute disproportionate amount. You said, "We will always oppose the petition." Of course you're opposed! You oppose Ertzaintza as an integral police officer of this country. That's why you're a member of a political party whose government in Spain keeps its mind on the Statute of Autonomy. It remains inconceivable, and here it maintains a police ratio of 6.9, which triples, doubles in the smallest of cases, the police ratios of any country in the European Union. Look, when Major Oreja was Minister of the Interior (a few years ago, fortunately), he said at the plenary session of the Congress of Deputies: "The police deployment in the Basque Country is conditional on the disappearance of ETA". And he said in a parliamentary response, regarding the withdrawal or adequacy of the Civil Guard and the National Police: "This motivates a continuous re-adjustment of staff, which, among other factors, takes into account social conflict and certain serious forms of crime, including terrorism. Once this disappears" – a few years ago – "this readjustment will be taken into consideration". Do you agree with this? Do you believe that laws and the Statute must be respected? Do you believe that the Civil Guard and the National Police must be here for the powers assigned to them by the Statute and the Constitution? Then do what you have to do. First, convene the Security Board..., tell the Minister of the Interior to convene the Security Board, to stop showing self-indulgence and contempt with the Basque Government, to convene the Security Board, and to proceed to the adequacy of the National Police and the Civil Guard in Euskadi, and to adhere to normal, normalized, police-per-inhabitant ratios. And take the Civil Guard's performances...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u95	Mr. Iturate, you go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u96	... through paths of rationality and not of disproportion, as to which we are accustomed. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u97	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u98	Thank you, Madam President. You spoke, Mr. Arzuaga, saying that you did not distort reality. No, it's just that she lives in a deformed reality. It is not that it distorts reality: it lives in a distorted reality. Because you speak of verbal or physical violence, violations of rights and freedoms, of the cursed past, of military occupation... Really, that is, apart from being an absolutely expired language, it's absurd. It is absurd, because, I tell you, you live in an absolutely distorted reality. And it's true, you don't care about the controls, whether they're the Civil Guard. If they were Ertzaintza, either, because what you don't want is for a police to exist, because you just don't want the law to apply. And he is not concerned that Basque citizenship has said No to ETA on numerous occasions. You don't care! And look, as you speak, by mentioning people who have also died killed in roadblocks, why don't you condemn, that yes, a proven murder, of the two ertzainas in Beasain when they were regulating the traffic?, or the two who killed (ETA) in the port of Herrera, when they were faced with an alleged traffic accident? Because that was checked. What you said no, it's fallacy. And if they're not, let's do justice. I say it from here and I condemn it: if it was disproportionate police action, that it should act justice and that it should have responsibility. But you do the same with this, which was also in traffic matters, which ETA killed those people. Condemn that. That's the abysmal difference between you and us. Look, Mr. Iturrate, I'm not going to sing, among other things because I make it fatal, and I'm not going to say here, if I'm Spanish ("I come from Spain, I'm from Spain"), no, because I don't need to claim. It's just that I don't need to be vindicting myself all the time. Look, I'm Spanish and I'm Basque, and I don't have any glue. Those who try to make that incompatible are you, and you have to be constantly claiming that you are Basques, and more Basques than anyone else. I have no problem, I have very clear what I am, and I do not have to be vindicting it every day and every hour, nor do I have to victimize all day, as you do, of "what evil the government treats us, who gives us nothing, who invades our competences...". Look, if in the competition you have, which is Ertzaintza, you're doing it badly! If they have achieved union unanimity against how they carry the Ertzaintza! If it is the ertzainas themselves who have told me that they force them to do controls, one check per turn, which sometimes stop at the same in the morning and in the afternoon! In the morning and in the afternoon, because he goes to the farmhouse and stops in the morning a group of the Ertzaintza, and in the afternoon the afternoon shift. Now, that's right, those are absolutely proportionate. They don't even understand the ertzainas themselves, who have to do the controls, but they are absolutely proportionate. I don't know if it's you who decides what that control has to be like. Not me, look. I refuse, because I don't have the capacity to make those two comparisons. Like you said, I'm not that smart. No, no, It will, where appropriate, be the police officers who have to say so. And of course on the Security Board! I have told you before, of course, that the Security Board has to meet, but it has to meet for what it has to meet, for its function, which is to coordinate police work. Not to do politics, which is what you want. Because the counselor, and she knows it, has an offer to convene the Security Board, but she wants the Security Board to be convened just for one thing, so that there's a point on the agenda – and that's not my obsession and I don't get it here –: the withdrawal of the Civil Guard and the National Police. It's all he's interested in, all he's interested in putting on that Security Board. And the Security Board is a body that is for police coordination, not for making political demands. And you're not interested in police coordination. The councilwoman is interested – not because I say it, because she said it in her first appearance in this House – in the withdrawal of the National Police and the Civil Guard. Yes, sir, I'm going to tell you without singing: the "get out of here," that's what interests you. And if you're really interested in dealing with what you have to deal with on the Security Board, believe me that this meeting will take place immediately. But for that, not to make political demands. And, to conclude, look, Mr Maneiro, I had not really tabled an amendment similar to yours because, man, speaking of controls, we will not have to be claiming the support and recognition that this society owes to the Civil Guard and the National Police. Because it's true that this was put here on the tray by the counselor, and, come on, they took the tray and took it so richly, and I think what can't be it seems like we always have to be doing that recognition, but believe me that, after Mr Arzuaga's intervention, we are going, it is absolutely necessary. I believe that we are not going to vote, because the compromise amendment will be voted on, but, if we vote, we are going to vote in favour of that amendment, because I believe that Basque society owes a recognition to those who, far from violating rights and freedoms, have done what they have done to defend the rights and freedoms of Basques in this country. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u99	Thank you, Miss Llanos. When I arrived at this moment, I intended to stop it, but, apparently, the weather part is bad, I propose to continue with the next two points. Yeah? Well, we'll keep going. Number of points in theme list: "So much for the demand as the popular teams of the Basque Committee of the International Year of the FNNU-2014 Family. Discipline and final resolution. This is the round of the group that made the proposal. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u100	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The year 2014 was declared International Year of Family Agriculture, promoted by the World Rural Forum, based in Euskadi, preceded by a civil society campaign and supported by more than 360 civil and primary sector organizations. Its objective is to achieve active policies in favour of the sustainable development of agricultural systems based on family unity, and to raise the awareness of civil society as a whole about the relevance of family farming, as well as to insist on public administrations and agencies...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u101	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u102	... related to the primary sector in which its objective should be to promote productive, competitive and sustainable agricultural holdings in all orders. In other words, farms that obtain income in line with their participation in food production and in the improvement and conservation of natural resources. Agricultural holdings in developed countries are characterized by being linked to the family unit. In the Basque Country, in 96% of farms the holder is a natural person, and they manage 85% of the area of the territory. But there is an alarming fact: only 10% of farms are managed by holders under 40 years of age. We have no doubt in the People's Group that the sustainability and strengthening of family farms goes through their rejuvenation. For this essential generational relief measures are necessary to facilitate access to the first holding, to the first activity. Without producers there is no activity, family farming is a value to protect. Since the World Coordinator of the International Year of Family Farming 2014, as well as from the Euskadi Committee which is the driving force behind the International Year of Family Farming, Governments, public administrations, sectoral organizations and civil society in general are requesting and demanding measures for the recognition and strengthening of family farming, as reflected in the document entitled "Impulsion for Family Farming in Euskadi". This non-legislative proposal that we are presenting for your vote is the content of this document, which we believe to be of great value, because it reflects the feeling of a large majority of the primary sector of Euskadi. I must say that initially from the People's Group we try to make this an institutional statement, but, by failing to obtain unanimity from the groups in this House, we move it to a non-legislative proposal. As I say, in what we say in this non-legislative proposal, "The Basque Parliament supports the measures for the recognition and strengthening of family farming as set out in the document 'Euskadi Family Farming Impulse'" and which are the following: "The countries must guarantee priority legal access to land, water, sea and other natural resources for women and men in family farming. "The right of peoples to produce much of their food must be recognized. "The countries must allocate sufficient amounts in their budgets to support family farming. "The role of farmers' organisations should be recognised as representatives of women and men family farmers, fishermen, shepherds, etc. through sectoral dialogue tables, aimed at consensusing public policies favourable to these sectors. "The role of farmers and family farmers in transcending the image of mere recipients of the common agricultural policy is valued and recognized. Also the recognition of the economic, social and territorial functions of our foundations. "The improvement of the organisation and capacity for adaptation and negotiation of male and female farmers in the food chain is supported. "Active policies are developed – not just agricultural ones – for young people and women. "Agrarian activity must be guaranteed profitability. This profitability requires support, easier access to markets, specific measures that make it attractive to young people through services in rural areas: social services, education, leisure, etc. "Be aware of more sustainable, more agro-ecological and environmentally friendly forms of production. "Local production is valued, encouraging the implementation of short marketing channels. "The dialogue between decision-makers and agricultural organisations is improved." This is the proposal we put to the vote, which, as I say, our initial objective was to make it an institutional declaration, but we hope that it will have a large majority in this House. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u104	President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. The International Year of Family Agriculture has ended, but all the challenges posed remain, because the development of active policies that make possible the sustainable development of agricultural systems based on family, agricultural, communal, cooperative and fisheries unity remains pending. A sustainable development that is not just a stake in a sector, the primary one, which is essential in the generation of wealth and employment. It is directly linked to the main challenge of the Socialists, who believe that we have ahead of us the effectiveness of the fight against poverty and hunger. And it is also a commitment to the development of a rural environment that respects the environment and biodiversity. Socialists argue that all peoples must have sustainable policies to ensure that their food is secured, and that human dignity in general is improved as a result of more powerful family farming. That is what we were looking for with the recognition of the international year, and that is what we must continue to address. And it must be included in the political agenda of all, including this Government, because it is another opportunity to take advantage of to boost the local economy, especially when combined with specific policies aimed at the social protection and well-being of communities. This is another forgetfulness of the Government, for which the primary sector is not among its priorities. Another of these subjects in which there are no objectives, deadlines, concretions or finalizations. So this plenary can serve to set these objectives, which for socialists are: Promote active policies at all levels for the sustainable development of family farming, including small-scale fishing. Strengthen the legitimacy of agricultural, peasant and fishing associations, including their proposals and demands in agricultural policies. To increase the awareness of society and all social actors about the crucial role of family farming in sustainable food production and in the conservation of ecosystems and biodiversity. To clarify the recognition of the role of women in family farming, and to contribute to the exercise of their specific rights in this area. Provide policies for agricultural youth and agricultural and rural employment. To advocate and defend a food trade based on rules that promote food security, avoiding speculative actions and promoting equality. This is what we believe needs to be addressed from here as well. This Government should also promote meetings and analyses on rural development based on family farming, in cooperation with universities and training or research centres, including agricultural organizations, taking a central place in all agricultural and food and nutrition security agencies. Family farms are the essence of sustainable agriculture. We must work for a future and reiterate support for the transformation of a dynamic sector into local production and help to strengthen market development with strong links. The Basque agricultural and food sector, despite progressing along a competitive path, will always need a necessary and fair level of support that compensates for its structural deficit and contributes, as well as the maintenance of its activity, if we want to continue to preserve a living rural area, which brings us so many benefits. That is why we must be aware of ourselves and of society in favour of this sustainable model, a model that has a human face and must be inclusive. The Socialist Party, my party, is concerned that the values of the primary sector are being lost, which is not just economic activity, which is not just generating employment, which – I said at first – has a lot to do with the environment and the fight against hunger and poverty. And to make it possible, we have to provide it with sufficient support. The Socialist Group will continue to work on the real active policies for the sustainable development of agricultural systems based on family unity. That is why we are asking the Basque Government for more farm aid, more effort with young people and women farmers. We ask that the profitability of this activity be ensured by facilitating access to markets, making it attractive to young people, striving to ensure all kinds of services in rural areas (social services, education, leisure, etc.). This is what we are proposing, and for that it must serve this debate today, so that the year in favour of family farming will not remain in the past and will continue to have a future. The Socialist Group will continue to work on the control initiatives of this Government, to work on the progress of proposals, to improve and promote the momentum of family farming, and to make it effective. The Socialist Group has now tabled an amendment aimed at strengthening and contributing and contributing to improvements in the demands of the International Year of Family Agriculture. We have not had the opportunity to agree or work with the proposing party, but we still think that we must work towards an institutional agreement for the advancement and strengthening of family farming, which is so important in the primary sector. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Passing to the non-correction teams round Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro... He's not here. The Representative of the EH Group has the word. Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u106	Hello, everyone. This sense, in truth, we see full of contradictions, and, though briefly, I shall endeavour to explain these contradictions. First of all, this 2014 Family Farming International Year initiative in 2015, with all 2014 years for that... We think he's passed the expiration date. Besides, it must be said that even in 2014, this international day had no echo at all here. And now that the initiative is introduced, what we see is that even the group which represents the initiative does not give any extraordinary importance to this matter. Following the contradictions, we know that in the international day of the Family Farm, we know that the Caku Corporation is also there. It's a multinational corporation now, with its facilities spread out in the world, and he sells his products in any corner of the world. And besides, the owner of the corporation is in Switzerland Emmi, which is still much more multinational, the account of the three billion euros, 5,000 workmen, etc.). Are these multinationals on the side of a family reaction? Or do they support such enterprises to justify their faces in some way? On the other hand, the discussion about the nutrient of the Chamber was brought by EH Collect, and then the EAJ and PP were openly opposed. And what we see now is, and in a rather curious manner, that in this action the following words are received in words: "el derecho de los pueblos a producir parte de sus alimentos," or "se reconozcan shapes de producción más agrocológicas." And what you're accepting is the right of the people to produce nutrients, and you're also accepting agrokology. Good for you! I won't complain of that, but there are contradictions in your minds. And as we see nothing but contradictions and contradictions, we do not give our support to this enterprise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u107	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u108	The head of the table, fellow members of the legislature, is to every good evening. On the one hand, although we are already in a relatively advanced 2015 year, happy new year. Cry on everybody. This is the first opportunity I have to speak in this Parliament this year, which is also a good way, at least for me, to start the year by coming to defend in a plenary a matter that I like, because it has its claim and I find it very pleasant, because it is difficult to be against, even it is difficult to abstain. And it also means bringing, to the full the representation of Basque citizens, a matter of which little is talked about, little seems to mean, when it is of enormous interest to our primary sector and, therefore, to our country, to Euskadi. Because I have always maintained, I maintain, and the time remaining to keep tangled around here I will maintain, that a country that is convinced that it is must take absolute care of its primary sector, its food supplier. Today it seems, and to some extent it is true, that any food can be obtained from anywhere on the planet without even having a proper agriculture. And that's true. But, being this true today, no one can guarantee that it is in the future, either immediate or distant; that evil and entanglers are there everywhere and at all times. Therefore, and in the face of possible (non-fictious) undesirable situations, a country that creates it must maintain soil and capacity to produce its food, in addition to maintaining a rural world, all of which are essential for our survival. But not just that. Agriculture is a strategic sector that structures a country, not only as an indispensable complement to industrial, commercial and tertiary economies, but also plays an essential role in maintaining the territory and managing it in harmony with the multiple needs of the population. And one might ask: What is the point of this soprano in defense of agriculture in general, if we came to talk about family activity? That is why, because when we talk about agriculture in Euskadi, we talk about family farming. Because Euskadi has an orography, a structure of farms and a tradition that makes them as thought by our ancestors for the defense of family farming, which already the FAO defines it as "the way to classify agricultural, forestry, fishing, pastoral managed and operated by a family, including both women and men". And this definition – no one will be able to discuss it – goes like a finger ring to our agricultural sector. While the International Year of Family Agriculture – and here I am going to try to explain a certain contradiction that has been explained here – is 2014, this GNP was introduced in 2014, and for the reason that it is discussed in 2015. But is there any contradiction that a news accounted for in 2014 remains in force in 2015, which follows it, and let's continue to defend what was said in 2014, which remains in force in 2015, and surely in 2040 will remain in force? We have come to support a statement from last year because this year is still in force. It is also true that it would have been much better, much more timely and more impactful to achieve the desired effect, to transmit to society as a whole the need to support this type of agriculture, to make an institutional declaration from Parliament, but it was not possible. And I can tell you that it is not because our group and the proponent of this GNP did not commit it, that we put it to it, nor because the Socialist Group or UPyD opposed it, which did not oppose it. Deduce. It was a missed opportunity, but today we are here to rectify it, even if we arrive a little late and the method used is not the optimal, which here we are to visualize our support for family farming in Euskadi. Even though I support something called a multinational, because it also seems here that a company like Kaiku, located in this country, just because it participates in other countries and becomes a multinational, is intrinsically bad. I really invite you to read the projects of that company, which I have no business defending for anything, in Tunisia, Chile or Argentina. Read and learn what you're doing. Let's see if it's worth everything that looks bigger than a leek garden is bad enough for the environment, for our country's health and economy! We have come, I insist, to support family farming, and I cannot go further by calling for support for this document without pride that the drivers not of the document, but of the international year itself, are people of Euskadi, who in a quiet way have been working very hard on the subject. At the World Agriculture Conference held in Bilbao in 2011, organized by the World Rural Forum, based in Arkaute and Gasteiz, in Euskadi, the first important steps were taken for this international year. I invite you to read the conclusions of that conference, which are a real manifesto in defense of family farming. The UN, through FAO, collected the glove launched at that conference, and decreed that it be held that year throughout 2014. The Rural Forum itself has been nominated by FAO responsible for the civil society programme for the international year. We are talking, therefore, about an international year that has been lived with intensity throughout the planet, with multiple institutional acts and declarations of interest. And one of these is this GNP that I hope we can adopt today, where things like the right of countries and peoples to make their own food appear, and greater support for agroecology, which my parliamentary group has never refused to support. Never. There's no contradiction in that. And I'm starting to end up just like I started. For us it is essential to maintain agricultural activity, our sense of the country demands it, and, within its multiple formats, the foundation is specifically to support family farming. And not only because it is the best way to keep agriculture alive, territorially balanced, socially humane and environmentally sustainable, but because it is what we have had and it is what we continue to have, because it is ours. Shut up, yeah. And I will end with the phrase that was the slogan of the international year and that contains in very few words a whole world of ideas and intentions. And if anyone wants to find a contradiction between what the Basque Nationalist group thinks and does and this sentence, come here and try to explain it. The phrase is: "Family agriculture, take care of the world, feed the planet". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u109	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u110	Just briefly to thank the groups that are going to support this initiative. And to say that in the Group of the European People's Party the arguments to oppose this initiative have seemed very poor to us, because they have sought to find contradictions in something that has never, ever been given in this House, at least by our group, nor by the spokesman. I come from the agricultural world, I am what I am thanks to agriculture, producing local produce. And I don't know what you're talking about. Maybe he doesn't have any more arguments to oppose, that's what's been highlighted: he doesn't have any arguments to oppose. 96% of producers in the Basque Country are family farmers, who manage 85% of the territory of the Basque Country. What are you talking about? What percentage are you talking about? What has been shown is that he has no argument to oppose, but his position is against. Well, you represent a minimum percentage of the agricultural sector in the Basque Country. That's what's left in evidence. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u112	Yes, President. The Socialist Group will vote in favour because we have a unique opportunity in our hands to boost family farming. Because it is not just the subsistence of families in need, but it seems to us that it is an area of food security, associative and full of opportunities for an inclusive rural right. We call for more movements to achieve better agricultural policies and improve the right to land, primarily for rural women and men, as well as for the sea, artisanal fishing, or for pastoralists. It must be from now on a few years with an integrative will, with the aspirations that the living conditions will improve, as they suffer difficulties in the access to face affordable prices to the purchase of land, water, pastures, seeds, native seeds of quality, work equipment... , everything necessary to develop your work. The ageing of the population, something that worries us, and the scarce generational relief, tend to make farms disappear. We consider it vitally important to recognize the real and effective role of women farmers as an essential part of proper legal regulation of the concept of family farming. For our part, there is great concern about the low or no participation of small farmers and fishermen in decision-making processes and participation in policies affecting them, and in particular about the fixing and evolution of prices for their products, in the distribution chain from local markets; about the volatility of prices, which are often subject to speculative interests; about the impact of weather conditions on family farming; and about the impact of the adverse effects of climate change, which affects the agricultural system. Reducing crops, due to climate, can endanger food security, increasing the risk of pests and pathogens, which are protected through farms. We must and must work with professional and scientific exchanges to be able to work in research, such as helping to counter climate change in agriculture, as well as the major changes in the landscape, rural and marine fauna and flora, which provoke intensive crops and deprive affected countries of their ecological and tourist wealth and natural balance. Another added problem that will have an impact on family farming is the reform of the CAP, but it is not the reform that professional farmers, who are faced with decisions that have already been taken absolutely disappointingly, expected and needed. They are suffering a progressive deterioration in agricultural income and its impact on rural economies. Effective, sustainable and agro-ecological family farming must be ensured. It is an essential objective to achieve a model of generational and equitable development of rural, urban and marine spaces. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Missita's not here. Collect EH. Lazarus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u114	Yeah. Since it is a world-wide initiative, proclamations are always ambiguous, uncertain, and so on. But here it is, when we come to the details, when we come to it and enter the conquests. And what you see here, that is, did you come here to promote the agriculture policies that you've taken for the last 30 years? I mean, the specialized farm trade, the most intense, somehow broken up the relationship between the peasants and the people, leaving the dining-rooms in the hands of the catersings, and turning back to the products of the place, is this all for the sake of the family trade? Agrokology is here mentioned, and it seems to me that agrokology is to be acknowledged or protected by extreme levity. I don't know whether his meaning is really known with all the depth, but I doubt it. For Agrokology is not merely an ecological production, for it is added to ecological production to an economic and social view: a fair division of wealth, a just division of natural social resources, when the tentitudes of the present day are quite contrary, and the politics which encourage your groups are also to accumulate wealth, and to possess the natural resources of the earth and its natural resources. So, don't use Agrokology, please, lightly. And what's family business? It's so beautiful, we're all here for the family business. It's like something small, our own, but every year 800,000 or 100,000 euros (or even more) are placed in systematic support? What's family business? What we see is that around a well-defined concept we want to make a proclamation here, and that the proclamation has also been passed 2014, and that the party who brought this subject has been short of the year, and that no one here has ever brought sweat on his forehead to produce it. No one has ever had too much interest. So, as I said before, we won't protect him.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u115	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u116	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu andrea. Very fast. Interest? Well, you measure the interest. It's about bringing him in and supporting him or not supporting him, but it's about bringing him in! You haven't even brought it, even if it's generic. To have brought him in by specifying, to have made an amendment by specifying things! You have not worked, you have not made an amendment. He hasn't even made an amendment. And you can't come up with a generic criticism of the Basque government, which has always supported multinationals, big farms... Bring data. I remind you of the McSherry reform of the Committee on Agriculture. It is basically done with support and reports made in the Basque Government in the Department of Agriculture. And the McSherry reform is a reform that attempts, at a certain point throughout Europe, to support basically family farming. I invite you to read the two Basque rural strategic plans, supported in this Parliament and approved in this Parliament, to see what the two Basque rural strategic plans are talking about. When you come here to criticize the government and say generically that it does not support family farming, I want data, I want reports, I want decrees saying that it is not doing so. Because I'm telling you yes, and I'm setting out the plans and the rules. That we are not sharing wealth in agriculture. No, we have not come here to make a distribution of wealth in agriculture. We didn't come to this! We have come to support a manifesto in defense of family farming. And that what we're trying to do is increase land ownership. Bring me data! I just don't get it. I just don't know what you came here for. I can tell you that, in essence, most of the agrarian policy that is being pursued today by the administration is contained in a document called the Rural Development Plan, and I can assure you that the Rural Development Plan that has just been approved and in force for the next five years in Euskadi is signed by the institutional officials of the Government and of the three outlaws, including the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation. That's politics. Bring the PDR, and we read what that PDR supports, whether it supports family farming or not. And forget about the multinationals. Welcome to the support of a multinational whatever it is, as long as it supports it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u117	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The seventh point on the theme list: "Gather up [as] a band of Parliaments made, [as] a large store, to apply to the agreements of the land of commerce. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Harrido, the representative of the EHG, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u118	Good noon, everyone. The origin of this action is, as is shown in the other proposition of the law, in June 2014, the union of the ELA belongs to all the members of the legislature to the contract which regulates the conditions of the workers of departments. In addition to the fact that the laborers in the sector and the unions have been asking for a long time, the law demands right. We must observe, that whilst in small shops the contract of the province is applied in large offices, the contract of the State is applied, and this agreement is a much worse condition. EAE is almost 7,000 workers under the contract of industry in departments, suffering from the inferior conditions of work which have nothing to do with our socioconomic reality. Besides, it must be observed that the employment of small shops is destroying, losing, and that the employment which is produced in great offices is principally the prize. And as it happens in other respects, most of those who work in this profession are women, and this increases discrimination, a double discrimination in this case. The last business contract in the State Department was signed in 2013. I think it was signed by two unions (Fasgs and Fticanos), no one else but himself, and he has supposed a tremendous retrograde within this sphere, and therefore the condition of labour has made them still more presbytery in a sector of predestination. I think it's important to mention some conditions of work which we've received in this language, to understand what we're talking about. Eta, lehen aipatu doubt bezala, legebiltzar-talde guztioi igorritak dokumentuak, besteak beste, hau zioen: "Rapid reduction of the real income of the template in its bet for variable remuneration according to sales. In practice, the possibility for companies to apply or not arbitrarily ascended" (hau da, soldier Igo edo jaitsiko will say sallen Arabara eta enpresek erabakiko dute hori noiz gertatzen den). "Increase working hours by 28 hours per year, from 1,770 to 1,798 hours, and is forced to work on Sundays and holidays. It totally attacks the reconciliation of work and personal or family life." It is not necessary to say that the choice of these worse or worse conditions of work is given, on the one hand, by the form of labour, and on the other by the legislation, by the decree, which allows the time to be relaxed. From our point of view, this is a serious situation. It is a serious matter that thousands of workers have to undergo this unjust situation, and also to endure conditions which have no relation to our social and social reality. And it's serious what's happening here with the department stores. There's a lot to talk about and much more to do around the little shops. After all, while these, small, are closing, and the employment is lost, the employment of the great shops is a dean, a temporary one, and has worse conditions. For example, the Media Markt salary that sells electrical equipment is more than that of the nearest electric equipment that sells, less than 20 or 30% lower than small shops, and the job averages 57 hours more. All this, as is natural, has led to increase the uneasiness, and not only in workers and unions, but also in small trades. Day after day the differences between the great stalls and the small shops increase and increase in proportion to the conditions of work. As has been said, in the great stalls, the latest contract has been added to the task of more than 28 hours. The planet, moreover, has been since the beginning of these stalls, and from the moment that it comes, it reduces the planets. In fact, they're being fired once in a full-time staff for temporary partial contracts, in the end it's cheaper to make contracts. And even in the number of hours and in the month, it's a bigger situation. I'll put other examples on the table. In some trading contract, for instance in Gipu, there are 1,727 hours appointed, and in the treaty of the great offices of state, 1.78 hours; 1.727 to 1.798 hours. And in the gym, for instance, if they're paid 1,500 euros, it doesn't reach 14,000 euros. This is what we're talking about, not about other things. This is the situation and the request is correct. He speaks of the application of the work-words which have nothing to do with our social reality: The contract of labour in the state, which neither considers nor considers the social reality, nor the majority of the people here (in whom the conquered, the workers, and even the association of trade) thinks and desires. That's what we're talking about. This subject has a direct connection with the collective negotiation. A collective negotiation in our country isn't in the best condition, and it's troubling. In the course of the previous days, several facts were made to be made known, according to which, at the present moment, 274,000 workers have the contract of labour, and the support of a contract which was more than double before the form of labour. Besides, many Covenants have gone away, and many labourers have been left without Covenants. And it is plain, at least, that this unfortunate situation is taking place from the form of work, and from the manner of the company. The businessmen have everything on their side (the law, the force, and the government) and the workers stand helpless in front of it. Still, it must be said that there are exceptions. Yesterday or the day before yesterday I think it was: we knew that the contract of labor for social aid has been signed with wages, with fewer hours of work, and several conditions of resistance to the form of work, contrary to the state and necessary arbitration. It's good to have such patterns in our country and make them possible. It is true that in courts of justice there are several cases of gain, e.g. of the ultraacivity of the compacts. But his application will produce other problems, such as different rights and conditions of labour among the workers. And this is the panomama. We, at least, because we agree with the proposition entered into the legislature, and because we do it, because it does not seem right to us to be in this situation about seven thousand workers, we think we ought to face this situation. And that's why we're proposing to make commitment to the parliamentary negotiation area, and the second, the most important thing, to contact the corporations of the big shops in the EAE, to apply the terms of work which agree with the social reality here, and to negotiate with the unions to equalize the conditions of the state of the sector to the conditions of the other equivalents. This is the right request we were made, which protects EH Collect, because it seems to us that the legislature should care to do something when there are such injustices. At least we believe in it and that's why we brought the proposition. We know, even though we've tried, there's no agreement with EH Collect, and now I've seen that there's an agreement between Socialists and the Galolzaan Party. Then, on the second round, after hearing your arguments, I'll have a chance to do that. I just want to say that I think it's strange, after talking this morning and yesterday about the subject, to know what you were doing without giving me a chance to agree. After hearing your point of view, I'll appreciate what you've signed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, Mr. Ichaso, the Basque Socialist, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u120	Thank you very much, President. The initiative that Bildu brings us today is an initiative that we would essentially agree with. That is to say, with all those negotiations which, as a result of these negotiations, are based on agreements which improve the conditions of workers, it remains to be said that we agree. What is happening, Mrs Arrondo, is that you, already in the justification that precedes the proposed part, ask us that this is actually sponsored by the majority union, the ELA union. And then, agreeing on the general purpose of improving the conditions of Basque workers, whether in the trade sector or in any other sector of economic activity, we find that the minded union appeals to collective bargaining and, of course, it turns out that all this clashes with the practice that has been carried out and even with its own postulates, in which it has vehemently defended the negotiation company by company, to the point that the report made by the Labour Relations Council every two years (the last one did so last year for these dates) spoke of the 2013 financial year... Given the time and the fact that this is a little prolific, I am not going to take over it, but, indeed, the company agreements have increased in a remarkable way, and collective bargaining by sector has fallen, to the point that only 40% of Basque workers currently have agreement coverage. Then there are some questions of character or semantic nature that are of no greater importance, because everyone knows how it is expressed and what they want to call it, but when they talk about the Basque sphere to us that would not chirify us, but they will agree with us that the Basque sphere exceeds what is the autonomic sphere, which is what we are dealing with. And, of course, the Basque sphere as expressed in Article 1 of the Statute of Autonomy has a dimension and covers a wider sphere than the autonomic sphere would be. It is legitimate every wish that seeks a Basque legal-political and administrative reality, but today this is it. So, of course, when it comes to making a conceptual precision exercise, to making a Cartesian analysis of what we are talking about, we have to invoke the autonomic sphere, even if it seems smaller than the Basque one, but that's why I tell you. And since freedom of association, is it possible to conduct negotiations in the Basque area, in the autonomous sphere? Of course, of course I do. What the parties want to establish from a territorial or geographical point of view is perfectly possible, and in addition to carrying out collective negotiations that lead to conventions of general effectiveness, conventions of a statutory nature, i.e. effectively erga omnes, which oblige everyone. And that's possible, but, of course, we find that there is actually a employer who has some symptoms of not believing enough their representativeness, of being divided as well, at least as far as I'm concerned. In Bizkaia, for example, there are two different, not always coincident associations in the trade sector. In Gipuzkoa there is also no coincidence between what the bosses Adegi say and what they say, for example, the Mercantile Federation. Therefore, we find a employer who does not have unanimous criteria. But, of course, with regard to what the trade union side is, as I have been saying, we find ourselves, for example, with what it said not long ago (we are talking about 22-10-2014) Mr Joseba Villareal, who said: "The most effective area, or rather the only effective one to deal with labour reform, is the company agreements". Of course, such stoning quotes and former chair... Then, finally, we are shocked, Mrs Arrondo, by these calls for collective bargaining. Because it is true, collective bargaining does not always result in the birth of a convention, indeed. There may be conflicting approaches that do not lead to a convention, but at least that idea of confrontation brings it to the dialectics and brings it to the negotiating tables. It is true that the State agreements propose wage increases which are lower than those laid down by collective agreements registered in the Autonomous Community. That's it, that's it. However, it is also true that there is an increasing number of workers who have to accept a state agreement because they do not have an agreement that applies to them in the autonomous sphere, and therefore that attitude or strategy of dropping collective agreements in order to favour the negotiation of a firm by a firm that clearly brings all this. I do not doubt that labor reform has devastating effects on the world of work, on workers' rights, etc., but that of always blaming the neighbor, labor reform, the employer... Yes, yes, okay, but, what is it, that here the godfathers of this proposal have no responsibility? Man, I think some of them do. And I believe that when, in the liberal exercise of trade union activity, it always borders on the political, and also legitimate, side by side, such approaches must be exposed and subject to the necessary criticism, and in this case a very easy criticism. Because here coherence shines through its absence. And it's not an incoherence resulting from the lack of analysis, no. It is an inconsistency resulting from a very calculated analysis, which legitimately also pursues trade union hegemony. But, man, soups and sip not. If we are talking about business pacts, we are talking about business pacts, but that, in fact, is emptying of content the collective bargaining by sector, which is actually what poses a defence of workers' rights at the collective level. And that's why, Mrs. Arrondo. It's not because we disagree with that idea. In such a way that the transaction that we have reached with the Nationalist Party – and to see if I find it, which is around here – then it says nothing different than what you propose in essence. It does not say anything different, but it does say that the Basque Parliament shows its commitment to collective bargaining in the most favourable framework. Because I am sure that the workers, if they give them a choice between a state agreement and a convention, let's say, Basque, what they will ask is what wages each one contemplates and what the annual day we have. And the one that suits me best is the one I'm going to add to. I believe that any worker is in a position to take control of that agreement that best protects his rights, regardless of where he originates or where he is born. I think this is so simple. I do not think that for the sake of the homeland one is willing to lose working conditions, or rights, or better pay conditions. I don't think that happens. In such a way that this finally leads me to ask myself aloud: Would anyone here – I, of course, do not believe it – believe that this union, the godfather of this initiative, would be in a position, today, to carry out collective negotiations with the employer? I think, given the trajectory, anyway, that seems unlikely. I'd like it to be that way! I would like to see the trade union majority represented, let us say, a greater projection in the area of collective bargaining; that it legitimately set out, of course, all the approaches it considers appropriate, but that it should do what it can, that it should contribute, that it helped to achieve agreements that would protect the greatest number of workers. You see, where ELA has the highest representation (Gipuzkoa, for example), is where there are fewer sectoral collective agreements. In Navarre, for example, where ELA is not a trade union majority, 90% of workers have contract coverage. In Euskadi, you know how many? 40 %. And these realities are not the result of chance. They are the result of a strategy that has consequences, of which they do not even want to take charge, throwing the dead to the neighbor. That politically, for those who want to do politics, is unacceptable, and has the critical logic and the logical reproach, which is what we came to talk about. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u121	Thank you, Mr. Sea. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Uribe Housekeeper from there. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you, ma'am. With your permission, I'll take it from the seat, because I'll be brief. I suppose Mrs. Arida and Mr. Ichaso have a pretty well-intentioned subject, and I only want to point out an idea of our middle-class text. We are agreed, I think, essentially. Then there are differences, Mrs. Arrido. We're all in agreement that if you're in touch with the department company and the unions or workers, you're gonna have to be contacted, you know, to apply the local work contract to the big shops. But we, seeing beforehand that we find in the actual Eucharistic reality of the present day a void, which is the absence of certain local contractors, first and then of all those sactorial contractors of the country, agreeing, because we find it very difficult to apply some of the contractes which do not exist at large offices. And then I would insist on the social conversation. We think that for representatives of corporations and unions, together with the government, the best scope or place for these things, even if it's in principles, is a social conversation. So that's what we're talking about, too. And that's all. Thank you Mr. Ichaso for his disposition. Thank you, too, Mrs. Arrido, even though we have not come to an agreement, I think we have shades. And of course we will assent to the intermediate text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u122	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. The ones who haven't issued any corrections. Mr. Maneiro... He won't say a word. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. And from the seat to announce that the People's Group will support the compromise amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, to also show our commitment to the framework of collective bargaining in the commercial sector, in particular with the provincial trade agreements, and of course to convey the need, in our opinion, to bet on dialogue between employers and workers in order to reach agreements in the commercial field. Of course, we want there to be no possibility of unfair competition. We need to protect small trade, retail trade, and that there is no unfair competition on the part of the big ones. And, of course, that all this can be done for the sake of improving the conditions of workers. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u124	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Passing on the answering shift, Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u125	Now, yes, I'll start to rate the middle-way. Uribe-Etxebarria jauna, lehen puntuan esanez "The Basque Parliament shows its commitment to collective bargaining within the framework that more favors the rights of workers", horrela pentsatzen du Alderdi Jeltzaleak defendatzea negociazio kolektiborako euskal esprru propria? Ez dut ulertzen, benetan. I don't know if that was a good idea. I don't know whether you really think that, but if that's the case, it's still more serious to me. It seems to me that there must be something from the beginning of our suggestion, at least a defense of the frame here. That's a missing thing. What you've signed is quite another thing. If we read the corrections of every man, as well as of what Mr. Ichaso introduced, and also of what Mr. Uribe-homebarria has been introduced, they have nothing to do with what you have agreed on. Nay, more: The report Mr. Tachaso's presence made a direct call at the big stalls to apply the contract here and ask for it, and now he's changed it completely, I don't know why. I don't know what the Social Party owes the Jeltarian Party. I don't get it. It doesn't make any sense about the running corrections and the medium agreed on. I think Mr. Icha must give more than one explanation, for two things are quite different. On the second point, here and again, and especially on Mr. Ichaso's side, the union has been mentioned. If I mentioned the ELA union, it was because they brought it. All the parliamentary groups sent to us, and sent to all of us, and therefore I think it may be allowed to tell you whence the proposal comes from. But, to say this, it is impossible to divert the subject from a union or two on the subject of a collective negotiation, when we all know that it is not for the care of a union or of two, but because the form of labour has given everything to some, and because we have a patronal in this country, it is not prepared to advance any further and to fill that law above and below. So don't throw the ball on the other side. Besides, the subject wasn't exactly that today. It's not even social conversation, it's not. The table in the Society Dialog is stated in the proposition, which is not a frame for this subject. And that, unfortunately, you know, and yet you put it on the proposition. You know, he's not allowed nowadays, he's no good for that. And again, because they are not all in unions, the majority does not exist; but if we speak of commerce in this case, because it is not even patronal, for Confebas is there alone (for there are at least some of them). Well, here's to get the interviews out today, really... I think there are other interests below, and not so much to defend the workers in their miserable situation, especially when they have profit in these departments, and they apply them to a smaller condition than what is applied in the next little shop. And we seem to see the other side of the institution, from this legislation, that it's not reasonable. Besides, it's not fair. There are other possibilities, at least to do what we can, to change that pitiful reality. And with what you've agreed to today, I don't know what you're trying to accomplish. Proclaiming that the Society's Table is? That this conversation table is now to be dedicated in the field of commerce to meet the situation of the great stalls? You don't even believe it, and that's the shame of it. So he won't leave today. I'm sure those seven thousand workers will think that institutions do little for them. But on our part, we clearly mean that what they demand is just, and that this people has a right to have a proper field for a collective negotiation. And that, if it isn't today, will be another time. But we're still on our way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u127	Mrs Arrondo, you are absolutely right: it is so right what is being asked for, that it can be done without the need for this Parliament to rule on it. We need only partners who want to carry out and complete these agreements that you are talking about. That's all it takes. What we cannot do is pretend that trade union freedom, that everyone exercises it as they see fit, we have to say how they have to negotiate. We believe that they actually have to improve the conditions of workers, that they have to approve those who have the best conditions, that the state agreements do not propose wage increases such as the agreements that are registered in the Autonomous Community... True, but in order to carry out such approval, harmonization and equalization of rights, it is necessary for partners with a desire to conclude such agreements. We cannot compel the parties involved in these negotiations to do so. And, as Pepe Isbert would say in "Welcome Mr. Marshall," I owe you an explanation and I'll give you an explanation. When we were in our amendment we said that we urged the Basque Government to urge the large areas, the large warehouses, to show their commitment to the territory by adhering to the provincial conventions... That is to say, there is not even a need for a negotiation: to get these companies, with their plants here in Euskadi, to adhere to the trade agreements (they only have to adhere, that is to say, to take off from the ones that have in force large warehouses), it would not be necessary or necessary to negotiate. They adhere to trade agreements. And we thought it opportune to appeal to that commitment, because sometimes even in the advertising of these companies we appeal to the root, to the presence... Well, let's prove it. That is why we proposed that amendment. But, since we are not so attached to our thesis, and we always have a desire for consensus, and we have, indeed, tried to see, first of all with you as proponents, also with the Nationalist Group, whether we could achieve some kind of agreement. And the agreement that we have reached does not differ at all from what is the essence and purpose, as I have said before, of your proposal. Because what it is about is that these large warehouse agreements are translated into subjection to the trade agreements that we have here. That's what's coming up. What do we propose in the Social Dialogue Bureau? Well, it could be in another area. But that's actually a table, a meeting place where you really have to deal with so many things, right?, and where some say, "That's not good for nothing, that's not good for anything...". Well, nothing, that's how we are. The transaction we have reached, in the terms in which it is, even though its wording or, ultimately, its literature does not give them satisfaction, does not differ at all from what the purpose is. It is indeed a question of achieving, if it can be in the field of social dialogue or any other area of meeting for economic and social partners, that all those workers you quote, those large companies, therefore, show that our reality is different, that we have other macroeconomic elements and factors, and that their commitment to the territory means that there will be no worse treatment for their workers than that which may have other workers in trade, in retail trade. And, as has been said, that is a serious competition and a serious threat to retail trade. That's why we're defending him, too. Therefore, as I say to you, Mrs Arrondo, the transaction that we have arrived at is not a transaction that is alienated from the approaches that you make. What happens is that it is formulated in terms that, well, in the end, here everyone cultivates the semantics that he thinks fit, and perhaps the one that is being expressed here does not give satisfaction to his purposes. But as for its contents, as for the scope it seeks and the will it wants to sponsor, it says the same thing. And that's the explanation I had for you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u128	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Yeah. Thank you, Madame's head of the table. Well, for my part, I want to corroborate what Mr. Itxaso just said. I think we don't really have big differences, but it will allow me to clarify a couple of points. We do not speak of a table, of a table (it is precisely a term we have removed), but it does seem important to us, and that is why we have introduced it, the value of social dialogue. We find it totally inconceivable that for the advancement of a society, of the sector and of the productive system, of the conditions of the workers, the social dialogue will be renounced or turned away. Therefore, because it seems to us a fundamental value and that it must also be practiced and internalized by Basque society, it seems to us very important to introduce it. And, secondly, why do we want this? For we want it so that the large warehouses, taking into account the socio-economic reality of where they are located, in the territory on which they are located, in Euskadi, implement the provincial trade agreements. But for large warehouses to implement provincial agreements first there must be provincial ones. And that is why we call first for social dialogue, to negotiate and agree on the provincial trade agreements, a sine qua non condition for the large warehouses to be able to implement it. We sincerely believe that this is the best way (social dialogue and things by order, with a desire for dialogue, negotiation and agreement), it is, I insist, the best favour we can do to those seven thousand people who work in the large warehouses located in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u129	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. To conclude, Mr. Oy ranger... he will not speak. When we're done arguing, we'll vote for every discussion one by one. First point in theme list: "The bill of law made by the People of Euscal Act, in order to regulate the organization of the Ardala." The vote is whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 73; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstations, 1. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u130	But he's in league. Consequently, we consider the law's proposition. Second point on the subject list: "To discuss first the legal proposition of the Basque Socialist as a bill of law, about the file of employment on the Euskian radio." This is the middle-term correction signed by Basque Socialists and UUPyD. APor separatedo... ? [[Berber]] We'll vote for one, two, four together. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 27; white, 0; abscessations are 0.0,0,0,0,0,0,0,0. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u131	As a result, there are only 1, 2, and 4 points accepted. (The pause) A vote has been this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 64; the opponents are 10; the whites are 0.0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u132	So the third point is accepted. We're going to vote for the middle-line correction that the Basque Socialists and the EH Collectors have signed. We can vote. (The pause) A vote has been this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 46; contrary, 27; white, 0; abstainations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u133	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Here we vote first the original text of the EHG as a group. We can vote. (The pause) A vote has been this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 20; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u134	This is not allowed the original EH Shade text. (The pause) A vote has been this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 11; the opponents are 47; white, 0; abscessions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u135	The full correction of Misto-UPyD team has not been accepted. (The pause) A vote has been this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 43; the opponents are 31; white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u136	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. We'll vote for the original text of the population proposal. We can vote. (The pause) A vote has been this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; 10; abstations, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u137	As a result, the original text has been accepted. We'll vote for the lawal proposal of the EH team, original text. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters 20; the opponents are 54; white, 0; Abstenations are 0. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u138	Original text was not accepted as a result. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 20; white, 0; abstenations are 0.0. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-05.u139	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-four.
