ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I'm just telling you that the seventh point on the theme list is left for another, when you ask for fun. And 2, 8, 9, 11, 16, 17, 19, 21, and 22 points have been left for another, as requested by the authors of the enterprise. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the staff of the N.P.I.A.R.R.R.I.R.A.R.S.I.E.A.S.A.S.S. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. We have learned that the Council of Government had accepted a financial support program last Tuesday and that its goal is to get the real integration of the Basque prisoners. In order to contextualize the subject, we would like to make a couple of reflections prior to the formulation of the specific question. First of all, the importance of the re-establishment of the prisoners. Article 25.2 of the Spanish Constitution provides that custodial sentences and security measures shall be directed towards re-education and social reintegration. Our group, Euzko Abertzaleak, is clear that all prison policy must have as its fundamental objective the implementation of resocialisation, social reintegration, as is the case in the most advanced European countries and in the policy line marked by the Council of Europe. We therefore see the need for initiatives aimed at making such a resocialisation possible, incorporating prisoners into socio-occupational paths that enable them to reintegrate into our society, ultimately, so that they can live from their work in the future and that they do not find themselves in the stubbornness of thinking about reoffending after serving their sentences and getting out of prison. Secondly, we shall mention that the Government of Spain does not keep the State of Guernica over and over again. We know that the Basque Government has repeatedly requested the Spanish State to start negotiations to carry out the transfer of powers provided for in articles 12.1 and 10.14 of the Statute of Self-Government, concerning the implementation of criminal and prison legislation, as well as the organization and management of prisons. But, despite being entitled to this, in this, as in other matters, we must denounce the failure of successive Spanish governments to comply with a law such as the Statute of Gernika. Some of us in the People's Party, both in Madrid and here, must recognize that they have been consistent throughout all these years, and, in the purest style of those who are not here today, have postulated and exercised the indifference, yes, the indifference to the Statute, expressly refusing to comply with it in this matter. And others, the Socialist Party of Madrid, Idem of Idem. Although here in Euskadi we thought that the approach would be another in the López Government, given its electoral promise of "we will assume in agreement with the State the powers in prison matters", collected in one of its so-called "one hundred reasons for change". But in the first appearance in committee of the Minister of Public Administration and Justice, in order to explain the general lines of action of his department in the last legislature, he has already made it clear that of that nothing; that, once again, "where I said, I say Diego", and that for the socialists this era and it is a competition that has to be in the hands of the State Administration. Therefore, another unfulfilled electoral promise, and, more importantly, a further breach of the Gernika Statute. On the contrary, the Basque Nationalist Party in its electoral programme includes a commitment to require the transfer of penitentiary institutions in compliance with a law, in compliance with the Gernika Statute. In this connection, the Basque Government, assuming its commitment to the people and despite not having transferred the competition, and aware that the people imprisoned in the Basque prisons once they serve their sentences will go out to the streets and must offer them vital alternatives, has been working for years to facilitate their social reintegration. Gure galdera, beraz, Erakunde, Justizia eta Administrazione Publikoko sailburuari zuzentzen dioguna, honako hau da: What concrete actions has the Basque Government carried out in this area, despite not having transferred the competence, to make effective the resocialization of the prison population? Finally, we thank you for your answer. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u2	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. I remember it's an entire control meeting. Please ask questions and interpenetrations to the government, not to the others. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Zorrilla, indeed, as you have pointed out, although the Statute of Gernika confers on Euskadi powers for the management of the prisons located in its territorial area, successive governments which have turned to Madrid over the past thirty-five years have systematically opposed the materialization of this transfer. In the face of this situation, it would have been easier for all to disagree with the prison population in Euskadi and the challenges associated with their social reintegration, but fortunately this has not been the case, and since 2000 the Basque Government has been promoting social and training programmes aimed at facilitating social reintegration, the social and labour integration of persons deprived of their liberty for the moment when, after having completed their sentence, they have regained their liberty and are facing the challenge of having to live for themselves, seeking employment and finding themselves in the social and labour sphere. All this from the perception – which you have also stated in your speech – that those who leave prison without any office or benefit are often inexorably engaged in returning to prison again. Over the past 15 years, the Basque Government has invested €5.6 million to contribute to the full reintegration of prisoners, which in many cases means that it has been achieved, in fact, that they acknowledge the damage caused and restore their lives by fully integrating themselves into the social and labour structure. Last year, 2014, these programmes to which I am referring enabled 1,232 people who were in Basque prisons to benefit from personal reintegration projects, and in this context, with the help of numerous associations and groups in the sector, we attended 1,054 men and 178 women, who participated in forty-three projects promoted by thirty-one associations, all of them from the Basque network of social and labour support for prisoners. For example, there were eight scheduled departures and work camps, eight temporary accommodation programmes, four drug abuse plans, eleven training and training centres and twelve counselling and employment support centres. In view of the success of the initiatives, I insist, during all these years, for fifteen long years already, and in expression once again of the commitment of the Basque Government to promote the social reintegration of persons deprived of their liberty, which is the fundamental objective that these penalties must pursue, we maintain this programme also in 2015, and right now we have just taken out the annual public call, which will allow the associations and groups of the sector to present programmes of this kind to count on the support of the Basque Government. All within the framework of the objectives of social reintegration that must govern policies of deprivation of liberty. If we do not believe that the fundamental objective of custodial sentences should be to seek their re-education and social reintegration of prisoners, none of this would make sense. Fortunately, our fundamental goal is that, and we will continue to do so with or without it. Which doesn't mean we're going to stop demanding the transfer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u4	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. [[Berber]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u5	Could you take the floor?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u6	Just to clear up the subject he's referred to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u7	To Mr Zorrilla, to clarify a few points, since today I have no part in this debate and you have directly addressed me and the management that I carried out in the López Government, to tell you two questions. We did request the transfer of prisons at the first meeting I had in Prison Institutions at the Ministry of the Interior in Madrid. And we do not turn our backs on prisons and prisoners, and so we sign two agreements that lead us to Euskadi, as an autonomous community, to manage all the alternative prison sentences, all the extramural sentences and all the third degrees. And also to say that this budget line of courses for the resocialization of prisoners has existed since before the López Government. He's always existed in Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u8	Thank you. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Joseph Antonio Pastor, a member of the Socialists of the United States of the United States, preferring the future of the Fundation to make fun of the president." Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u9	Thank you, President. Well, I, unlike the PNV representative, am going to do what is right, which is to challenge the government and not the opposition. Well, lehendakari, consistency and reliability I believe are not virtues attributable to this government, and the issue that gives rise to this question I believe is just one example. On 13 March, in this rostrum, I expressed my group's concern at the delay in the approval of the continuing training courses for this year, which the Foundation's patronage had already left ready in December. And I also expressed here the suspicion that you were deliberately letting this matter go to sleep, to give time for the PP government to approve the announced reform of training for the employed workers and thus stay in the portfolio with the millions allocated. I will also remind you, Lehendakari, what the Employment Adviser, Mr Toña, told me. First, and against all evidence, he assured that there was no delay in the processing of plans which, I insist, Hobetuz left ready as early as December last year, in the absence of only its approval by the Lanbide Board of Directors and the Government. And he also announced that they would certainly be approved at the Governing Council on Tuesday, the 24th. He also said: that in no way was the reform of training being prepared by the PP government, and that the call for the programmes for this exercise was not affected, "because we are going to make it not affect us". Well, lehendakari, the Rajoy government passed on Friday last week the royal decree-law reforming the occupational training system. And what happened on Tuesday at the council meeting of his government, at which he was to be given free access to the call for courses? Well, they stayed on the table, as we feared. Then, it is true, Mr Erkoreka explained to us, in a composite tone, that they had done so out of prudence, because Rajoy's royal decree has the character of basic regulation and can affect the Basque Government's programs. Come on, Mr. Toña, someone had misinformed you. And the question, lehendakari, remains the same: Is it the intention of this government to liquidate Hobetuz as a fundamental tool for continuing training in Euskadi?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u10	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u11	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Mr Pastor, the Hobetuz issue has been very present on the agenda of the Basque Government, not just in recent weeks. And I think you have a choice to know that you have been very present on the agenda of the Basque Government and also my particular one, because I have been personally participating for quite a few months now in a working meeting with Hobetuz in which what could be happening to Hobetuz has already been anticipated within the framework we are seeing in recent days. At no time have we had the Basque Government in mind the word "liquidate". I'm sick of ez. I'm in the middle of a guk gure asmotan huts-hutsean behera behera ustea Hobetuz. All the initiatives we have taken demonstrate this. Knowing the sentence, from the first day we have worked with Hobetuz, with all the agents who are part of his patronage and also with the Spanish Government. Our shared goal has been to preserve and promote continuing training in Euskadi. Oh yes, gure helburu partakatua jarraipenezko lanbide-heziketa gordetzea eta bullzatzea Euskadin. This Wednesday the Basque Government held a specific working meeting with the Spanish Government on this subject. We moved a proposal, and the meeting was fruitful. We are moving on to possible outings negotiated with the State Public Employment Service. This is the proof that our intention is not to liquidate anything, but to fix and be able to continue. Yesterday Thursday – and I mean for the purposes of the sentence, not what is the actual decree-law of which you mentioned – yesterday Thursday the conclusions were presented at the meeting of the Hobetuz employers' office, and in a consensual way we managed to bring about a very delicate situation. And in relation to what the royal decree-law is, you yourself have said it: you know it has retroactive character or retroactive effects. It is not the intention of the Basque Government to liquidate Hobetuz. Not at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u13	Look, Mr Lehendakari, I did not ask you about Hobetuz's economic situation in relation to that amount pending or not returning. I asked him about the occupational training courses and their future. I spoke to Mr. Toña a few days ago to urge him to immediately approve the convening of courses by the Government, because we feared that the Royal Decree..., which has no retroactive effect, has a transitional provision that allows for the convening of courses that are already published. This has not happened in this Government. Therefore, excuses have been given here. I'm glad you say you don't want to liquidate Hobetuz. The problem is whether it will serve anything, at least this year, the subject of the call for aid. And for the moment, Mr. Toña, I'm sorry to tell you that you've been made a piece of paper, and the fiasco is so morrocotuto that I understand it can't be casual. I repeat, in December last year everything was ready for the Government to approve the call for courses. Why hasn't it been done? Why has the basic legislation of the Government prevented the courses from coming out this year? Because the fundamental problem is that from now on we have to adapt the regulations to get the courses out. And my question is: Are you going to take some course in 2015 already, taking into account the three months of delay that we have and the others, at least, that it will take time to adapt the basic rules? Because this year 2015 is most likely to be a lost year for staff training. I'd be happy to be wrong, Mr. Toña. You tell me no. I'll be delighted to be wrong. But today the feeling we have is the other, that of a certain posture of this government in the defense of self-government. Many proclaim with Mr Mas in defense of self-government, against the re-centralisation of the PP, but you are delighted that measures will be adopted to cut social spending and prevent the full development of self-government on many occasions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u14	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Pastor, there have been governments of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party in which progress could have been made in the full implementation of the Statute of Autonomy and respect for the self-government of Euskadi. Look, you asked me whether it is the intention of the Basque Government to liquidate Hobetuz, that is why you asked me, and that is why I answered you in my speech, thus referring to the actual decree-law in the last part of my speech, as well as to the sentence, which I believe is also important and nuclear for what can be the continuity of Hobetuz. In any case, I'll answer you. Training courses? Yeah. This Basque Government will convene all the training courses it has planned. He's gonna summon them. But I also tell you..., and I am surprised at a representative of a party like the Socialist Party who questions the Basque Government's compliance with what is a basic state regulation. In any case, Hobetuz is the forum in which we must analyse the situation and make consensus on the best possible decisions, Mr Pastor. It unites us with the will to maintain and improve the Basque bet for continuing training. It also unites us with the desire to address a calm, shared and orderly reflection on the future design of continuing education in Euskadi. And I refer again to the sentence because this sentence is a new circumstance that conditions us, but there is more. We have the competence of active employment policies, Lanbide is a reality, and we must also analyze, I insist, the effects of Royal Decree 4/2015 of 22 March, and its possible affection for Hobetuz. And he asks, I insist, "Is it the intention of the Basque government to liquidate Hobetuz?". No, no, The reality is different at the moment to what we knew at the time when Hobetuz was born; however, there is something that has not changed, and it is the will to invest in a concerted way in continuing training and in work intermediation in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, "Mala Llanos Gómez Euscal Group Member of the Security Committee "about calling the Security Committee." - No, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u17	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, lehendakari. Madam Counsellor, on numerous occasions you have pointed out your discomfort because the Security Board is not meeting, and it is true that this meeting is not taking place. It is also true that the functions of the Security Board, a body composed of an equal number of representatives of the State and the Autonomous Community, are very important. Its functions, in accordance with article 17.4 of our Statute, are coordination between the Ertzaintza and the State Security Forces and Bodies. If anything we have always highlighted all the groups, and this group too, it is that need for police coordination to gain in effectiveness. And that, Madam Counsellor, is the purpose of the Security Board, that of dealing within it with different aspects that affect the two governments, that of improving coordination between the two administrations and between the different police forces. But what is not to be received, Madam Counsellor, is what you intend to do: to make the Security Board an instrument of political grievances, because it is that and not another objective of yours, Madam Counsellor, because you put policy ahead of management. Why, if not, when he had an offer from the minister to date that Security Board, all he was concerned about was the need to withdraw the National Police and the Civil Guard?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u18	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning. I will not deny you, Mrs Llanos, your ability to manage the temporary opportunity of this question, if not opportunism. A question that you had on stand by since December and, look, it has come to fall today, just today, one day after we have had the Minister's answer through the media. It'll be random. Anyway, you were wondering if I've asked the Security Board. My request for a new Security Board is pending since 6 March 2013, when I had my first official meeting with the Minister of the Interior. And the minister, who is to be called, does not, does not call her. And he does well, because he knows what we need to talk about and he doesn't want to talk about it. Look, the technical coordination commissions of the police, between the Ertzaintza and the State Security Forces, carry their own dynamics; they are not exempt from complexity, I confess, but they carry their dynamics. They work, remember, and resolve. But the Security Board is not just for that. The Security Board is a body of political momentum, for which it was created. And what I ask when I ask for a new Security Board is precisely that that Security Board serves us to define the new security model of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u20	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u21	Madam Counsellor, what is clear is that you prefer not to meet the Security Board, I don't know if so you can keep saying that you don't meet or because, as I say to you, your obsessions are always political above management effectiveness. And that has been his tonic from the beginning, as is the tonic of his Government, a government more concerned with always complaining about the alleged grievances of Madrid than busy in governing and managing its own competencies. And today right here we have had proof of that, and you make this special gala, counselor. In his first appearance, in which he had to explain to us the lines of action of his department, his main concern was to expose that the National Police and the Civil Guard should withdraw. And he made this request in an intentional oblivion that they have statutory and constitutionally legal coverage to be here, and with a lack of absolute sensitivity towards a body that has given life for the rights of the Basques, and has given life precisely because many have taken it away for it to go. Those were your first words, counselor: to leave, to leave the National Police and the Civil Guard. And that, of course, is not a good presentation letter to create a climate of collaboration and understanding. However, despite this, there were contacts between his department and the ministry to determine matters that could be dealt with on that board, and matters on which progress could be made. Despite this, despite these first statements, I am aware of it, and I have told you on some occasion, but it is no longer that I have been told and told, it is that the minister has told you in a newspaper yesterday, this one offered you last year a meeting of the Security Board, and if there is no such meeting, it is because you have been in charge of boosting that meeting. Because you only want to take that meeting – and you have said it here today and you have said it in the newspapers – you just want to take your political claims, and you leave what is your responsibility, which is nothing other than to seek coordination and cooperation between Ertzaintza and the rest of the State Security Forces and Bodies, in order to fulfil what should be your top priority, which is to guarantee the security and protection of rights and freedoms. But no. As I say to you, your priority, that of your Government, is the political claim above police effectiveness. And I'm beginning to think that it's also a way of trying to put a veil on the bad management of your department, on the failure of the plan of the Ertzaintza Horizonte 2016, and also a reflection of what you mean by negotiation: either you do what I say, or I don't feel, or you don't do business. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u22	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u23	Thank you. I am not going to talk about a lack of sensitivity, which precisely the minister is the least able to give sensibility lessons with the State Security Forces and also with the Ertzaintza. Mrs. Llanos, do you know how many times the Security Board has met in the past twelve years? Three times. The minister said that at a Senate appearance in 2013. And the last of the meetings took place in June 2012 – Mr Ares will remember – to talk about the safety device of the Cycle Tour to Spain. And if that's what we need to talk about again, we'll do it. We'll get back together to talk about this. But the minister added something that I will literally read to him: "When the agenda is set up, on which he is working seriously, we will convene this Security Board to reach agreements, and, if there are no agreements, to separate the discrepancies and continue to move in the line of reaching an agreement from institutional loyalty." Pactar and institutional loyalty, it seems that that is no longer so important. But I ask you, Mrs Llanos: Would it be important for the Basque People's Group – yes, I ask you – to enable Ertzaintza as an integral police force in the European Schengen area and in agreements on DNA forms and fingerprints?, would it be important to coordinate better with the police in other countries, for example when our football teams go to European tournaments?, would it also be important for us to define well the spaces for action of the Ertzaintza in matters of citizen security and public order in ports, such as Pasaia, Bermeo or Bilbao? In the opinion of the People's Group, I ask you. Would it be important for the Ertzaintza, also for Basque society and even for the state's public coffers, to bring the security forces into line with the current situation? Mrs Llanos, if you consider that for the competitive development of the Ertzaintza, for its integral development and for the normalisation of the Euskadi security area these issues are important, please let the Minister know, because I have already lost the hope that you and he have no will, nor the slightest interest in convening the Security Board. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u24	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Five point in theme list: "To ask you, Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-UPyD members made to the president about what the president had done in De Miguel's case." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u25	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Mr Lehendakari, justice is going to sit on the bench of the accused twenty-six people accused in the so-called "Michael case", twenty of them directly linked to the Basque Nationalist Party. The judge assesses indications of the alleged commission of serious crimes: offences of prevarication, failure to prosecute offences, coercing, trafficking in influence, money laundering, misappropriation of public revenues, fraud against public administrations, negotiations and activities prohibited to public officials, falsity in public documents, against public finance, and alteration of prices in public tenders and auctions. Crimes, therefore, are extraordinarily serious. After hearing the judge's report, you made sure that the Basque Nationalist Party was exemplary from the moment the case was heard in 2010. In a radio interview you claimed the presumption of innocence, but at the same time denounced the judicialization of politics, and said textually that "five years have passed for us to get to the opening of the oral trial, in a curious time as well." He was forgotten to say that the investigating judge had been hampered by the lack of human resources, since the Department of the Interior and Security did not designate the agents necessary to carry out the investigations properly. I want to ask you whether you consider that the Basque Nationalist Party in all this time has lived up to the circumstances, and especially, I say, in the last few days. I would like to ask you whether you and the Government have lived up to the circumstances and responded as they should. And I would also like to ask you whether the involvement of the Basque Nationalist Party in the De Miguel case affects your Government. We are talking, after all, about an organized plot of illegal commissions that would affect about twenty people related to the Basque Nationalist Party. We cannot forget that Mr De Miguel was number two of the Nationalist Party in Álava, and that he used his e-mail from the parliament to claim a commission. These are serious facts. What do you think about this question? Have you been up to it?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u26	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, what do you want me to answer? That we weren't up to it? Well, look, as of today, there is no condition in relation to the government. The car, Mr Maneiro, does not speak of any property damage to the Basque Government. In any case, I remind you that the Basque Government is a person in the case. This character as a particular accusation guarantees our defense of the public interest. And, indeed, I have stated that the performance of the deputy general of Araba in 2010, and of the Basque Nationalist Party when the judge's order was known in 2010, was diligent and exemplary. The deputy general of Araba in 2010 is now president of the Basque Nationalist Party in Araba, and is also an elected parliamentarian in this House. His reaction was immediate, and the same day he became aware of the subject he acted forcefully and clearly. And it was at that time, not now, when I could talk about the Basque Nationalist Party that I was chairing, and I made it clear from the very first moment that the facts had nothing to do with the Basque Nationalist Party. This was the message from the first moment, and I keep it. This is not a case of illegal party funding. The reaction in 2010 was immediate, strong and clear; I don't know any other similar case. I insist that there is no affection in relation to the Government, and that we are personified in the cause to defend the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u29	Mr Lehendakari, I believe, however, that you have not been up to it, neither you nor the Basque Nationalist Party, nor the entire government. First of all, I have to say that we certainly find it very difficult to think that the Basque Nationalist Party had nothing to do with this issue. We are talking about a lot of people who were directly related to the Basque Nationalist Party. But, in any case, I would like to refer to some statements made by prominent members of the Basque Nationalist Party and yourself in recent days. Mr Ortuzar has said that the investigation could have an interested political impulse, he has said that we are facing an abuse of the PNV, he has said that not all procedural guarantees have been given, he has attacked the chief prosecutor of Álava, he has spoken of manipulation, and he has said that there is an interest in throwing stones at the country's roof, as if the Basque Nationalist Party were Euskadi. Whoever is behind him (i.e. the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party in this Parliament) has said that there is an intentionality for the case to appear on election eves. And you yourself have denounced the politicization of justice and also spoken of "interested political impulse." For all this, I consider that you have not been able to live up to it. Instead of criticizing the prosecutor, rather than criticizing the justice system, what they had to do, and they are still in time, is denounce the corrupt and say clearly that these behaviors are unacceptable. That's what you had to say, you and the Basque Nationalist Party, instead of trying to criticize justice or condition it: strongly criticise the corrupt, which you haven't done. That's what they should have done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u30	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr. Maneiro, I find it difficult to think and believe that I have mentioned an interest in a political impulse. You have referred to me, and I do not think I have spoken in those terms. And in any case, I insist, as far as respect for the court's order and the judicial procedure is concerned, I would also like to invite you to consider whether this Government, the Basque Government, for which I am speaking, has put pressure on the field of justice. Look, I don't have much more to add to that. First, I will respect, and I ask you to respect, the presumption of innocence of people. You've already qualified them. Secondly, I have declared myself against the systematic judicialization of politics, and I think it is obvious. And I also declare myself against the use of the media. I am not going to take part in the dynamic that you seek, because it does not contribute anything in a case that is being judged at this time and which has already been the subject of a specific committee of inquiry in this House. And third, and even though you tend to pass judgement and sentence beforehand, we and we will respect the decisions of the courts at the time they occur. I reiterate that we are first interested in the speedy clarification of this case by the judiciary. The first interested. And at the moment when justice is pronounced and judgment given, and if the Basque Government, on whose behalf I speak, is affected, I guarantee you that we will act again as quickly, as quickly and as clearly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpologies of the United States of the Basque Team of Carmelus Barrius Barroja, a member of the United States of Popula, made for the president, "De Miguel in the case of Gastine." After the court's car, about the measurements to be taken by RedMunch. " Mr. Barrio is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u33	Egun on. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari, Councillors and Councillors, good morning. I would like this inquiry to have a constructive spirit and to see what efforts the Government is making to neutralize attitudes such as those described in the Vitoria-Gasteiz Judgement No. 4 in relation to what was the well-known case Miñano, case Kataia, case De Miguel and many other denominations. The order describes situations and behaviour linked to the commission of certain offences (it has already been recalled: prevarication, coercion, trafficking in influence, etc.), that some of them have an impact and a sustenance in unlawful actions within the framework of the actions of persons forming part of the Basque public administration and its public societies. Ways of proceeding that affected public money and that were part of the relations of public officials, of political leaders, with private companies, with individuals mainly, sometimes with companies and societies even without workers. It is clear that today we are waiting for the final trial, as decided by the judge who has investigated the case, but also, it is true (the time has passed at that stage of investigation), it has also done so to see how it should and can be curtailed from political and administrative controls that these circumstances do not occur again, or that it is much more difficult for them to occur in the administration. It is true that we are talking about people's responsibilities, but it is no less true that steps can be taken and measures taken so that those behaviours that have been described by the court and the court can be neutralized. I am not going to enter the field of names or charges, but as regards the actions and subsequent control efforts. I do not want to put myself here in a partisan political forum, but I do know whether the Basque Government has taken seriously the recommendations of that committee of inquiry to which you referred, the parliamentary commission of inquiry which was essentially held in 2011, and had its final report and its opinion adopted in plenary session of this House on 10 May 2012. If that has been taken seriously by his Government, because it was at the end of the previous parliamentary term, that is to say, it is in his country where those recommendations had to be implemented. I am not going to recall the work of the committee of inquiry, that is the opinion, but I do want to focus on the fact that this opinion, in addition to conclusions, analyses, facts and responsibilities, made a number of recommendations to the Basque Government. Recommendations that have to do with transparency, that have to do with improving procedures, that have to do with promoting, renewing, improving controls on certain aspects relating to many issues. There are: public sector contracts, their awards, minor contracts, contract splitting, operation of the Office of Economic Control, motivation for the award of minor contracts, sufficient publicity, information on the website of the Basque Government in relation to all these issues, analysis of the companies invited and their competing interests – a question that is relevant in one of the issues that have been analysed both in the Commission of Inquiry and in the judicial authority itself – enabling the Office of Economic Control to verify the presentation of the work carried out – something important, I believe it is a question of reference –, the performance of the technological parks and public companies as contractors... Well, a number of issues that were part of, along with other kinds of controls on public and political officials, which are, of course, part of an important work of parliamentary investigation at that time and of Parliament's mandate to the Government to deepen this analysis, this transparency. Of course, by affecting the judicial situation – I say again –, as was the case before in the work of the parliamentary commission of inquiry, to actions carried out within the Basque administration itself (public officials), and in order to know the measures and purposes of the Basque Government so that this type of actions that involve the government in plots dependent on parties or areas... do not produce again, for we present this interpellation, in that spirit... Again, Mr Lehendakari, the appeals can then be converted into motions, and it will always be in order to gather in this case, in this procedure and with this initiative that I present, in the most constructive spirit, to see, to know and to push the Government where it is moving so that those issues which we have analysed in this Parliament and which are now analysing the judge cannot be reoccurred. That is why we are asking you about what measures the Basque Government has taken or is going to take to continue to comply with, to comply with the recommendations made in the parliamentary committee of inquiry, included in the opinion adopted by the plenary of the House on 10 May 2012, once the decision of the Court of Instruction No. 4 of Vitoria-Gasteiz is also evaluated in relation to this case, and what purpose it has in taking decisions leading to greater transparency and control of the government's relations with companies and individuals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u34	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. Erkorek who's a member of the team has a word to say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, the Gastine 4th. You start your interaction by talking about your car on March 9th, court judge 2015 this year. That's what you did in writing, and that's what you did today from this tribe. But then you reversate the contents of the interpenetration, and in essence, on the 10th of May 2012, you take the recommendations that have been tested for long months as the axis of your interaction, and you draw the course of the interpelration around it. You plan on this thread, among other things, to see if the Government performs the measures proposed by such recommendations, and what steps it is taking to accommodate the measures received in these recommendations to the application course. The recommendations of the research committee, as you may remember, if I'm not Mr. Unhappily, who had been his secretary, he defined four lines of inquiry. I suppose you're especially interested in the first line of research, because the rest of the investigation lines took different scopes from the administration. But seeing that, especially in your interpelation, you are concerned about transparency and control, it is plain that the recommendations are divided into four sections, and that from these four parts are principally recommendations from the first section to transparency and control. Especially those. You've read it from your interpelation, and now you've read it from this tribe, you say in words: "Ququé propos propos titene el Gobierno para adoptar deciscies conduentes a intensificior la transperencia y elcontrol en las eulines del Gobierno emposos y splitculareres." And I suppose, above all, that from these four lines of inquiry you have the first recommendations of inquiry in your interest, and about them, considering them as a axis, you would prefer to structure your interference. On this first question there were nine recommendations. Of these nine, they belong to the seven Governments; the end is to make proposals to the Government, or to make a request to the Government. And then there's two more, eighth and ninth, who don't have anything to do with the Eukongs, and they're the lawmen themselves, and they're the City Court, but they're not happy. Of these seven counsels, I would separate four sections; I think that those seven may be ranked into four sets. And, if you like, we shall examine them one by one: What measures the Government has taken, and how measures are still taken, in order to accommodate the measures received in these recommendations to the application. In the first group, the investigating committee examined the contractor with the contraction of a certain section. And that's what you plan on, a bad economic effect on you, if there's any harm in it, to defend it. For this reason it is also said that they should take the just or the just as much as the lawful procedures may be. As you know, the President said himself in the previous question, "Ah, he's created." And, in principle, he intends to continue in the defence of public interest, because public interest demands, if there really has been an economical influence upon it, and if there has been any injurious economic influence on it, to maintain the defence of public interest in it. So that personality's done and everything that's asked for by the public interest will be defended by fun. Another group of recommendations is bound to take measures that the law of the Public Sector contracts is really respected. It is above all necessary that the controls should be strengthened in small and negotiation, and even in broken contracts, which, as it is logical, hinders or prohibits the laws. When it is necessary to divide them in a single contract, to cheat the law, it is forbidden, and what is required is, that the measures should not be broken, and that there should be a greater check in the future, in the small and negotiation of negotiation. And that's why the Department of Ekonomical Control requires a number of demands to increase, to strengthen, to sharpen, to sharpen. As to this point, we must say, by respecting and respecting the law of the public contract, that the Economic Office has behaved in a strict and accurate manner and manner, and that it has still behaved with more severity and exactness. In that case, any one who's in the Eukong would say that the office of the Ekonomical Control is an organ of high precision in order to achieve that control, that it's composed of professional clothes and that this control is especially serious about them. But as this is an eternal property, because the bureau of the Economic Control has an enormous prestige and a confession inside the Administration and as well outside the Administration (the judges themselves, on many occasions, want to make sure about the economic practice of the Eukonomical Office, the information and the truth of it), even if that were enough, is prepared at this moment for a new violation of the Treasury Department to regulate the organic measures of the contraction. So this whole thing is on its way. It'll probably be transmitted during this year and it'll be proven that the Ogasin and Finance Department is already in operation, but in any case, more precision on this can be given by the chairman of the taxing and Finning department. In a certain sense, there is a thorough, strict practice in this, but it is beginning to grow larger. A group of third recommendations is connected with transparency, and the contractation is said to be adverted to, especially to small and negotiated contractors. And it's said that once a year, after the event is over, it'll be done and it'll be on the Basque Web page. That's where we're supposed to say there's been a lot of progress around the financial activity of the administration. Not just Euskon, but in all the administrations, for the past three years, with transparency, there has been great progress and manifest progress. On the one hand, because the people themselves require it, because society has a strong influence on it, and on the other because the law itself requires it. There is a law which we can further examine, if you like, which is more accurately given by the central Government of 2.28, concerning fundamental, transparency, and good government, and in this respect strict accuracy of public contract is given of advertising. And for the fourth time, the change of rules is planned, even if the Offices of the Economic Control actually do things that are hired to be physically checked, i.e. whether the ends of the public contract really take place or not. For this purpose the change of the rule is not necessary, because the law of the Economic Control, which is established in 20 years, foresees exactly in its article 22. They are therefore taking measures, and the Government is taking steps, and the proposals received in these recommendations are being carried out by increasing control and over transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u36	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you, Mr Erkoreka. I am interested in deepening these key elements of the recommendations, indeed, as it cannot be otherwise, those that affect the Government and those that have to do with the areas where the Administration was involved, in the areas that are the subject of analysis of these investigations. I say again, it is very important to put it into practice, it is relevant. And I remember again, the economic breakdown is there, and the negative effect occurred. It is necessary to recall recommendation 1, to apply immediately, in order to mitigate the economic disruption caused to the public purses, the relevant legal procedures to recover the public funds paid to the firms Kataia Consulting, Errexal and Ortzi Muga, without any consideration by these companies today. There were contracts without compensation, public money was paid, and it is necessary to know effectively what steps have been taken by the Basque Government to recover that money that was wrongly paid. These are issues that actually form part of those recommendations, such as some of the others. We will, of course, move it later on in a subsequent motion of inquiry, I say again, in this same constructive sense, so that all those things that you have informed me of in a general way become concrete, let us know where we were then and where we are now in all the issues that I have referred to before and which had to do with public sector contracts, minor contracts, that fractionation (I think there is the key)... , advertising, information, analysis of invited companies and their competing interests... There are very important issues that I believe the Basque Government..., we will try to have a report, and that the House will support a report to see the consequences of all these issues that we are talking about, of the commission of inquiry and, ultimately, of its actualization in the judicial sphere in relation to these issues. I miss the Basque Government a bit about this matter and the references that have to be given to society after what happened with the car. Our obligation, Mr Councillor and Mr Lehendakari – which was initially the subject of the inquiry, but it seems to me that the Councillor will reply to it – is to ensure that Parliament's recommendations are complied with and that citizens know that we continue to make progress in transparency and control. And something very serious has happened in the Miñano case, the Kataia case, the De Miguel case, as you might call it, something very serious has happened, and society wants it to react, wants us to react in Parliament and wants the government to react, and to give an impetus that these issues will be addressed. And, of course, if there is a basis and a basis for recommendations that this Parliament already has, better. I think that's what we need to move forward on. This case was a boulder for many (it was a boulder for a party, it was a boulder for the government, it was a boulder for society in relation to the keys in which it moved), and it has had many phases: when it emerged, in the successive phases of the investigation, adding and adding details, adding and adding defendants, adding and adding..., in the publication of the court order, and it continues to have repercussions. That is why I believe that today is more important than ever, of course, to respect the performance of justice (here it is, its time will come), but we have to involve the government in a commitment to regeneration and transparency in relation to issues that Parliament has already worked on. That is why I believe it will be important to continue talking about this issue in this Parliament, and we will do so through that motion. We want to know how scrupulously, strictly, or to what extent the recommendations of that commission of inquiry have been complied with. There have been other committees of inquiry in this Parliament. I have to remember the course of this Parliament, some important commissions of inquiry also, with important recommendations and references: Osakidetza commission of inquiry, those related to irregularities in the Guggenheim Museum or Balenciaga, others in relation to contracts in Health, the most recent of Hiriko and Epsilon... And here the recommendations and instances to the Government are almost as important, even more important in neutralizing irregular actions than other issues reflected in those documents and parliamentary analyses. And those recommendations must be a road map, Mr Lehendakari, Mr Councilman, for political action and for cases such as the De Miguel case not to occur again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u38	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, in two things I entirely agree with you. First, when you say that in this case, as far as it is in the hands of justice, justice must be allowed to do its duty. I completely agree with that. It follows from this, that the less the interference of justice or justice has been made in political parties, the greater is the advantage. If he's doing his job, he's allowed to do his job, and whoever's personified, he's going to do what he's supposed to do. But from politics, as far as we can, we ought to draw this question, in the name of the respect due to the judge and judge, not to make any interference or influence upon the judge. Justice has its principles, and penal justice has the presumption of particularly innocence as its foundation and foundation, and if justice does its work, we will provide for our work especially in the measures in which Eucommy ought to do and take it. So I agree with you that when you say that justice must be allowed to do its work. So let's drop it. And secondly, I agree also that when you say that our present business is to perform the recommendations given to you by the Congressor, in the name of transparency and control, and see how they've been executed. I told you, above all, there's been a lot of steps in the transparency area. For the past three years, the steps of all administration have been important to step forward with transparency. Not only because the people and the society require this: because even the law demands it. I have already mentioned a law, which the Supreme Court has tested in December 2013, a law of transparency and good government. In the first section of its article 8, it plainly says that every administration ought to give a detailed account of public contraction on its website, not only that which ought to be delivered into the hands of the parliamentary, but that which ought to be entrusted to all the people. That degree of transparency is in the bill of lawmaking that this one has sent to the parliamentary administration. But in this composition of laws, it may be employed to make it more transparency, or to arrange it as it thinks fit. We have, therefore, a good chance now, with this law, to regulate the transparency of the administration, and especially the transparency of the public contract. However, in the last two years, this year, in 2015, we have given the content to the census of the eulogies on the public contract of Registro Vasco de Contratus, which is still newly founded. 'Supon's been born, and at this moment the most of the contractations of the general Basque Administration are being introduced, I'm not going to say anything, but most of it.' The law of Madrid is therefore beyond what it requires in this fundamental law, and the information that can be received in this census is online. There was a debate about it a couple of weeks ago and it was said that at least three months ago, you'd have to send the Euskelek information around the public contract. No more than three months ago, this information is online, available, serving all the members of the local community and serving all the citizens of the town. This, then, gives to the public contraction and to the control of it an immense possibility. These measurements are already in motion. And they have a terrible change for the people, for the society, but also for the Administration. And, if you want to specify, you can specify the measures you can take in the motion, but consider that there is a reality that exists, that there is a function, and that in regard to transparency there is a significant forward step forward to check control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u40	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The tenth point in the subject list: "The question is that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-the member of the U.UPyD team had committed to the president's lawsuit about the president's agents at the Border." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u41	Thank you, President. Mr Lehendakari, I ask you for some facts that occurred a few weeks ago, but I wanted to keep the question because I think you still haven't asked for forgiveness. And I think you should apologize for the unfortunate performance that you did. I do not think you can let go of this opportunity to acknowledge the events that have taken place and to acknowledge that you were wrong in responding in this way to the agents who were protesting at the door of Parliament. I think you cannot forget the position you hold, that of lehendakari, and I think you must recognize that actions like the one you carried out cannot be repeated again. And I believe that it is worthy of any politician to recognize this, that it has been wrong and that such facts cannot actually happen again, because they give a bad image, a bad image of itself, of the office it holds, of the government itself, and they do no good to anyone. I think you've had time to think all these weeks, you'll have thought about it, and I think you'll have come to the conclusion that you've actually made a mistake. We're all wrong, Mr. Lehendakari, I'm the first, and there's nothing wrong with recognizing it publicly. I believe that their confrontation with the Ertzaintza agents who were demanding a series of demands that they consider fair, therefore, does not benefit anyone. It does not benefit you, your office, the Government, or the Councilwoman present here. The truth is that he also tried to discredit the unions, claiming that they enjoyed a lot of freed people, and then went on to qualify their union strategy as a war. He then went on to victimism, considering that he lacks respect, and finally announces that he will not apologize for so much lack of institutional respect. It's not the first time you've starred in similar events. Really, Mr. Lehendakari, acknowledge that you acted badly. Ask forgiveness, apologize, and commit yourself not to repeat such regrettable acts for your own good.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u42	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, I assure you that I think and reflect a lot about everything I say and everything I do, sincerely. You ask me, "What is the basis for stating that the mobilizations of Ertzaintza agents and employees from other areas of the Administration are a war against the government?". You have put in my mouth certain expressions that I want to spell out to you, because to nothing that you attended to, and not to what for months union representatives have said on social networks, but to nothing that you attended to the hemeroteca and public statements, and for example I quote three dates (30 January, 14 February, 6 March), you yourself would have checked and concluded that I have simply limited myself to reproducing the terms of slavery or war previously used by the leaders of the Ertzaintza unions. Just. I believe that Basque citizenship does not understand that a note such as that of 30 January, this is referred to the media. I will omit the insulting and denigrating ratings that appear in much of this note sent to the media, but if necessary I will also reproduce them. I read only part of the writing: "The main enemy of this professional union of ertzainas are not just criminals; so are the counselor and her team. We're going to chase you where you're going." I read you another statement from an Ertzaintza union, and not said by me, "If you want war, you'll have it." Terms used previously to have reproduced them I simply reproduced. Frankly, I believe that it is an unjustifiable disproportionate, exceeding all limits of institutional respect and due commitment to citizenship by people who are security agents and public servants. Look, the Ertzaintza is due to its own code of ethics, contemplated in the Police Act of the Basque Country, and I invite you to read it, because it has served me to think and reflect before I said and acted in order as I have done. And he speaks of respect, of acting with integrity and dignity, of preserving the prestige of the institution, of proper and careful treatment, or of respect for the authorities. I sincerely believe that it is a disproportion that those who must ensure public security encourage slavery or express themselves in insulting terms, speak of war, enemies and persecution. Hence my performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u45	Yes, Mr. Lehendakari, but your performance? He tells me about the actions of the agents of the Ertzaintza, the unions, the things they have said or done. That's not what I'm talking about. I clearly do not justify everything they have said or everything they have done. I refer to how you responded. Do you consider that you have responded adequately? Do you consider that a lehendakari can lose the papers? Do you consider that a lehendakari should be confronted in that way, publicly, with a few ertzainas or trade unions? Do you think he really did good? Don't you think you lost your temper and lost the papers? Aren't you going to apologize? I believe that you should clearly acknowledge that you have indeed made a mistake, and there is nothing wrong with that. And of course I also ask you to negotiate with the Ertzaintza trade unions and to resolve the internal problems that exist in that department. I'm telling you, Mr. Lehendakari, I don't justify all the agents' actions, I don't want to get into that. I analyze his behavior, as our lehendakari is, and I think he actually lost form, lost calm. It gives me the feeling that you are a very quiet person in general, but that, in the end, there are times when you lose the forms, because it has already happened on several occasions. He doesn't like to be criticized, and a lehendakari has to be prepared to be criticized. Both parliamentarians and trade unions, as well as anyone who works in the administration or any citizen, we all have to be prepared for criticism, but so do you. And you must admit that you lost the papers. I think you should apologize for the unfortunate action that took place on the last 6th of March. I'm just asking you to do that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u46	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, I don't know if it's critical what it might be to miss out on the very code of ethics of the Basque Police Act with acts like slavery, persecution, terms of war... Is that critical? Look, I'm not dealing with job demands, I'm dealing with demands for institutional respect and truth. And I think I've done it by keeping the shapes and not disrespecting them. I demand truth because the assertion of "Negotiation, not imposition" is not true. It is not true, first because the Government keeps the door to dialogue open. In these fifteen months we have convened sixteen negotiating meetings, and the unions have only attended three. Secondly, because the working conditions are stable, they are safe at the post. Third, because of the effort being made by Basque society to increase the workforce of the Ertzaintza (in just over two years we have opened an OPE of 120 and now another of 250). And, fourth, because the government has respected the agreements between the unions and the previous executive; so, the regulatory agreement of the working conditions, we also comply with the compensation decree of 2011, the agreement on the modulated active service is being complied with, the agreements of this legislature are being complied with to regulate all permits... Respect for the concept of negotiation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Socialists, Michael Unzalu Hermosa, a member of the Social Society, announced to the staff-captain on March 17th, 2015." Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, Congressmen, good morning to all. Mr Toña, I believe that you and I will agree that the labour reform of 2012 has caused significant damage in the Spanish socio-occupational landscape: it gets fired cheaper, it hires in any way, the working conditions and wages are altered by decision of the part, and it deprives the workers of the protection of the labor authority. A reform that was sold as a tool for job creation, which has actually led to an increase in unemployment, and today the vast majority of those who get jobs do so in precarious circumstances, while the vast majority of workers earn less and have increased the number of people who earn a salary is not enough for a decent life. This is the result of this labour reform. That is why we in this Parliament have repeatedly rejected it; that is why we in this Parliament have called for the Basque administration not to be complicit in such reform, to move away from the minimums of that law, and for it to contribute to the failure of the effects of such reform to take place in public proceedings. For this reason, the opinion of the Employment Officer on the first ERE of a Basque public enterprise, which was formally communicated last week and which in the documentation accompanying it is in line with the demands of the reform that the Government itself claims to reject, is relevant. The current legislation dispenses with the labour authority and leaves it up to the employer to lay down the criteria for collective dismissal. But since we are talking about a company in the Basque public sector, we ask him: What is the position of the Department of Employment, as Euskadi's labour authority, regarding the issue of some criterion of action in the open process of ETIB, which meets the positions expressed by an overwhelming majority of this Parliament in relation to the implementation of labour reform? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u50	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u51	Thank you, ma'am. Mikel Unzalu jauna, the position of this government in relation to labour reform is already known, I will not repeat it, in the same way that it is obvious that our actions must be subject to the rules in force, as would be yours if they were in the government. That is to say, in this matter, and in our capacity as labour authority, we will do what the regulations make us, because a principle of legality is something that all democrats necessarily share, whether we like what we have to apply or not. The current situation is as follows. As you know, on 17 March, the collective dismissal file instituted by Eusko Irratia-Balca Radio Broadcasting was registered with the Labour Authority at the Basque Government's headquarters in Vitoria-Gasteiz. At the moment, this dossier is being analysed and the documentation provided is being studied, without the public employment services being notified yet and without the Labour Inspectorate's mandatory report being requested. Because you know that there are thirty days of consultations between the representation of workers and the management of the company, and we, for the time being, will do what we have to do as a labour authority, and we hope that good faith in relations and negotiations will reach an agreement and, if necessary, work accordingly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u52	Thank you, Mr. Toña. To answer, Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u53	Yes, Mr Toña, I do believe that you will carry out your task by applying the legislation, but what I wanted to ask you is a little more there. As Head of Employment of the Basque Government, as Head and Labour Authority in the Basque Country, what I would like to ask you is what your position is, what your opinion on it is, for example, to issue this report, even if it is not mandatory. I mean, another question that I would also like to comment on: Do you really think that, although, as you have said, negotiations have not yet been completed, that mandatory month that there is to finish them has not ended, do you believe that there is good faith in these relations? You and I know that in the process, after this process started, which started there in April 2014, 14 other people have been incorporated into the ERE, 14 others who were not included in this ERE in April 2014 and are included as of June 2014. Do you think that's a sign of acting in good faith? Do you believe that these fourteen people, or those who are ultimately affected by this ERE, have had the same considerations, have had the same opportunities as those who were affected and knew their situation in April? That is what I say to you, that you go a little further there, that you act in your capacity as representative of the labor authority, that you also exercise the experience you have in facilitating exits. You know that this ERE of Eusko Irratia has generated a major conflict in a Basque public enterprise. What I'm telling you is not that you comply with the law, that I already know that you are going to do it; what I'm telling you is that you go a little further there, that you exercise your negotiating capacity, that you exercise your facilitating capacity so that this situation, this ERE, does not end up deepening the...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u54	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u55	Mikel Unzalu jauna, I have to tell you one thing, and it is that, in accordance with the principle of legality, this is not the opinion of the Employment and Social Policy Advisor. It's not about that! The aim is to comply with article 51 of the Workers' Statute and article 47 and Royal Decree-Law 1483/2012 of 29 October. I can't do anything else. At the moment I can explain to you what our competences and possibilities are in this respect, which on the other hand you already know them. The procedure is initiated by communication opening the consultation period to workers' representatives. It's already started. Communication which was accompanied by the documentation to be provided by the company to the representatives of the workers concerned during the consultation period. The employment authority, the Department of Employment (ours), must examine the documentation submitted, and if it sees any deficiencies, it warns that it does not require the company, on the other hand, to complete it. We are not going to give him a different deal – because no one would consent to us or ourselves – to Basque television or another company in this country! We're not going to give him any different deal, because we don't have to give it to him. It will be the Labour Inspectorate that issues its report at a given time, and it will be them, with full autonomy, who, in the opinion of the documentation provided, issue the relevant report. And once the consultation period has been completed, with or without agreement, the company, even if it is a public company, will decide whether to keep the file and communicate it to the labour authority, and the latter, in turn (we), to the Labour Inspectorate and SEPE. Mr. Unzalu, we can't do anything else. We won't behave differently in one place or another. The principle of neutrality must be our principle, and I cannot tell you anything else. We are not going to interfere or position ourselves on this issue differently from what is already done in so many other files. I'd miss more! Neutrality and propitiating good faith, provoking agreements, if possible, and exquisite respect for the legislation that applies, whether we like it or not.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u56	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interlation, the author of the legislatures of the Oyharland de Euscal Group to the Chief of Education, Policy, and Cultural Division, as well as the political system of the workers of public instruction." Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u57	Thank you very much, Madam President, Counsellor. At the end of 2014, irregularities were detected, and undue payments were made in relation to the payroll of the workers of the Department of Education. Earlier this year, at the beginning of this year, in the media we were able to hear complaints from education unions that even threatened to bring the Basque Government to the courts for errors in the payment of the payroll of public education workers. The representatives of the ELA trade union in particular threatened to act judicially against their department, against the Basque Government, if there was not a solution to what they described as irregularities, systematic errors detected in the payrolls of public network workers, many of whom, according to the trade union, have lost thousands of euros, according to the central office, which described these events as enormously serious and numerous irregularities. When we know that data, we ask a question, a series of questions to your department, to know in detail what we were talking about. Apparently, the Department of Education's computer system has gaps, or that is what workers' representatives say, and this has led to multiple errors that have been generalized, not reflecting, for example, the totality of the three-year period corresponding to a worker. Many of the irregularities detected are very old, and go back, Madam Counsellor, more than a decade ago, although some of the amounts drawn from the payrolls for this cause have been recovered. According to the unions, in some cases there are workers affected with amounts that exceed 6,000 euros, 7,000 euros..., even say that there are cases that can add up to 11,000 euros of injury to the worker. It appears that workers have only been able to claim undue payments up to four years ago, or four years ago, so many affected can lose significant sums of money. That's why we asked him at the time, we asked him a series of questions. We wanted to know exactly when your department found out, what we were talking about, who alerts you to the problem, what this type of irregularities in the computer system responds to, what causes them, what measures your department has taken to remedy it at this time, from the moment it is known, what amounts have been calculated..., beyond what trade unions can say, what actual amounts have been calculated that have been stopped paying workers, and what amounts have already been reinstated and who. And we were actually interested in knowing what solution his department was going to bring together, and what is going to happen to the amounts drawn back to the workers. Is it going to be possible to answer only for the amounts deducted in the last four years? Are we going to be held accountable for all the amounts drawn, even those workers who have been harmed over the last ten years? That's what we wanted to know. It is true that we met yesterday, after a month and speeding up the deadline, we knew a skewed response from your department, signed by you, in which we actually realized that you met him in December, and that you have taken steps to try to resolve it during the month of April. We are told that today all discrepancies between registration and payroll are quantified and standardized. I mean, you've detected the problem, you know what it is, what amounts we're talking about, and you tell us, in a parliamentary response, that you're going to solve it over the course of April, with which you determine 315 affected people in your department. We, of course, want to know about the unanswered questions of the initiative we presented a month ago. It is not only that you are going to respond to the problem, that you are going to do so during the month of April, but we want to know that all those questions that affect workers in relation to their rights actually have a determination to comply with them. And, more importantly, not only do we comply with the unfulfilled payments, but indeed the measures – and that is what we would like to know and most importantly – what measures the department has taken to ensure that this does not happen again, what measures, in relation to computer systems, can ensure that this does not happen again. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u58	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u59	The President of the legislature, Mr President, chief of staff, members of the legislature, good day. It is true that we have found some facts which did not correspond to nomines and registers, which correspond to antiquity. It is true, too, that we have well examined the situation, and have solved the differences or errors we found. I told you that when I answered the question you wrote me a few days ago. Indeed, as I replied to you this week in writing, it is true that some discrepancies have been detected between registration data and the payroll of staff under the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture of the Basque Government. These discrepancies affect only the antiquity component of some payrolls, that is, what we commonly know as trienians, and mostly the computation of a single trienium. The reason why this is done is that the database of the worker's record and the database for the pay of the nomines are two separate and independent bases, which have hitherto been developed in this manner by the computer infrastructure. Consequently, because there has been no binculation between these two systems, namely, between the record of the workers and the database of the nominators, the data must be altered manually, which may result in defects or changes, but they are correct as soon as they are detected, or even if they receive a complaint. Anyway, I want to emphasise one thing. This government is working for all the teachers and schools and politics and all the workers who are attached to the Cultural Department to pay their nomines by TREE. In fact, this Government has been working for years on the unification of the two different personnel and payroll systems. This new system, EIZU, involves optimising the management of all employees of the Euskadi Autonomous Community Administration through a single and uniform system which includes the particularities of management of each group (General Administration, Justice, Security and Education). It also allows you to work with the unique data system, that is, it allows you to record the data only once, producing immediate effects on all modules that need to be affected. Therefore, with this characteristic, the system has great advantages. In the first place, as a data is only once entered, accidental defects are avoided, and, on the other hand, they are reduced by the expense of maintenance. It makes human resources more rapid, simpler, and more modern. We can't even abandon patience and ecological point of view. Even at the time of making decisions, the new system is a great improvement. In real time the management is given the data around the worker's state, which makes it easier to decide. Lastly, as far as we are concerned, the Administration of Education enables us to manage the workers of private schools, whether they be schools under compact or not. In order to adapt to the new informal system, these facts have been explained by this process which I have not mentioned. I was telling you, it's been a long time since you were working on the new system, that is, we've been working on the new personal management integration system for a long time. This new system of management of workers leads to important benefits, as I explained to you now, and we have found, in fact, the differences now found in the nomines through the process of adapting you to the new system. In plain fact, we had heard of these differences in a typical meeting of the EI, which had been completed in December 2014. As soon as he recognized those differences in the ancient history, he began to work at once. And so the Department's staff managers and employees' service management managers, etc., with transferance and subsidies. a In order to ascertain whether there was any flaw in the direction and the technical group, they began to work with the direction of their own, if there was a way to identify them, to appreciate their importance, and to correct them. From that moment we have been able to determine the data so far as to determine the true dimension of the sides. On the other hand, the ELA union with the deputy chairman of the Administration and Services of January 15th, 2015, announced that there were great irregularities in certain workers' nostalgias. This union announced that, after having examined some of the Gipumian nomines, the errors were seen in the combination of the concept of antiquity, and showed two nomines to prove that the two defects were really correct. It must be said that there was no alarm that could possibly have been more faults, or in the Gipulia, or in the other countries. In any case, the process required for the development of the new instrument has been clearly shown to have happened that way. All non-commissioned non-commissions are now complied and normalized between records and nomines. Each and every discrepancy detected between the registration and the payroll is quantified and normalized to this day. Thus, the total number of staff in employment and fixed employment is 311 (no. 315, but we have found at the end that there were 311), and all errors detected have been remedied. In particular, the payroll has been regularized, and the payment of arrears will take place next April. Therefore, Mr. Oyrape, in order to give the matter a quick and proper solution, I think it was necessary to do it with care and responsibility, and I assure you it was so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, we did know the answer yesterday, but, in view of what you reply to us in writing, we are concerned that we are being told that we will be aware of the delays to the workers, of the payment of the delays, as legally established. That's why I warned you about the possibility that there might be workers who don't charge large sums of money. He has stated that this payment of arrears will be made in accordance with the established law, and we want to expand that information. That is, many irregularities, as I said, go back more than a decade, a decade ago, and in the case of the temporary teaching officer, only the delays of the last four years can be claimed. That is why we want to know whether we are going to be able to recover all the amounts withdrawn without a time limit, and that is what we would like you to clarify here today. Can we guarantee workers that they will recover all the amounts they have withdrawn, yes or no? That's what we want to know. If we are to ensure that the change in the computer system ensures that this type of error is not going to happen again, and if indeed this has happened it will have some kind of impact on the pensions of the 311 workers mentioned in this information you gave us a moment ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u62	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u63	Mr. Oyagun, as I said before, "EstModics" has been working long enough to set up an integrated system for the management of the workers. But, as you will understand, we are facing a long, complex process. The process was started first by General Administration, Justice and Security staff, and the payment of the agreed centres was also incorporated into the process. At present, a total of 22,000 employees of the Administration are already receiving their payroll through the system, and very soon, in May, if everything goes as planned, the payroll of all employees and of the staff assigned to the Department of Education, Language Policy and Culture will be paid through EIZU. Consequently, these kinds of mistakes will not happen again. In any case, we cannot lose sight of the real dimension of the discrepancies detected. As I said earlier, a total of 311 cases have been detected from a total of 16,000. These are people who are older than they were on the payroll in the personnel registration database. For the most part it is the lack of registration of a single triennium. I insist, today all the errors detected have been corrected in the register. In the case of workers with more than three nomines in the register, the comparisons to be done have been made, and all the detected mistakes have been corrected. As I have already mentioned, the injured and fixed civil servants are in all 311. In the next April the delay will begin to be paid according to the law, that is to say, four years' delays for the officials and fixed workers for one year's retreat. As I was telling you, in April next, delays will be paid in accordance with the established law, i.e. with a four-year retroactiveity for career staff and a one-year retroactiveity for fixed staff. To conclude, I will explain, that hitherto no one has been mistaken, and that in cases where complaints have been, the party has settled the matter one by one. The cases that have emerged have now emerged as a result of the transfer of data on the implementation of a single personnel management system. We are working to ensure that the new system is fully operational, in the case of Education, in May. And this new system is going to report better staff management, as well as a lower margin of error. We therefore hope that such cases will not be reproduced again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. fourteen points in theme list: "Interregative, Vicente Reyes Martin, a member of the Socialists of the Socialists, made for the head of Education, the Language and the Cultural Division, the Guggenheim Museum." Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u65	Good morning, everyone. Counselor, during her appearance last month, regarding the renewal of the agreement with the Guggenheim Foundation in New York, we could see that it is an agreement with few advances, that ignores the Basque art and artistic sector, and that above it is more expensive. You also acknowledged that all the recommendations that the Basque Parliament had adopted regarding the renewal of that agreement had not been taken into account, and explained that it was a work that was still pending, adding, and I quote, that referred to the unfulfilled recommendations "on aspects of the museum's operation, which must be dealt with internally in the management bodies of the Guggenheim Bilbao", you said. So what will the Basque Government do to comply with the resolutions of the Basque Parliament's paper on the renegotiation of the Guggenheim Bilbao Museum agreement? The truth is that we do not have much hope that you will comply with those resolutions, because if you wanted to do so you would have raised them in the negotiation with the Solomon Foundation for the renewal of the agreement. But they haven't. Counselor, it is a shame to see how the Basque administrations repeatedly approach the relationship with the Solomon Foundation from a fearful position of psychological inferiority to the point where you lied to this Parliament when you replied in writing to me that the considerations and recommendations of the opinion of the parliamentary presentation have been incorporated into the management agreement signed in December 2014. In writing, in an official reply. And you yourself at the appearance twenty days later had to recognize me that many of them have not even touched on the negotiation. And it's more than half. What do we do then? Do we ask the lehendakari whether the Government's Code of Ethics and Conduct will apply to you for lying to Parliament? Because that's very serious, counselor! Finally, with regard to specific non-compliances, you have not complied with more than half of the resolutions of that paper. But, as I am not bored going one by one, I shall refer to the two substantial aspects to which those resolutions point. One refers to how to do the negotiating process, and the other refers to the role of Euskadi in that relationship, which includes the decision-making capacity of Basque interests, as well as the participation of Basque art and the art sector in the Guggenheim of Bilbao. To begin with, the first resolution, which refers to the negotiating process, which is fundamental to everything else, is not being implemented. Parliament called for a renegotiation of the 1991 development and programming services agreement, including Annex III, of the declaration of artistic programming, in order to achieve a more balanced contract between the parties, i.e. in decision-making, between the Basque Administration and the Solomon Foundation. That is essential, because, if they had renewed that agreement first, the management agreement would have been negotiated in accordance with the new agreed bases, which would give greater strength to the position of the Basque side. But you have done nothing but negotiate the management agreement directly, leaving Annex III for another time, so you assume that we are not going to achieve what we want there, because negotiating an annex once the main agreement has been approved without any preconditions is a very weak position for a negotiation. And see if it is important that annex that they have not wanted to negotiate, which articulates nothing less than the content of the exhibition programming and the procedures for the acquisition of the work. Moreover, that annex in its fifteen pages does not refer to Basque art once, not once; it always refers to international art, which must be present, which we agree with, but does not refer to Basque art once. You have thus missed the opportunity to include the impulse to Basque art in the exhibitions. Are you going to try to include it in the future negotiation of Annex III? And how, if the Basque side has remained in a position of weakness? In any case, you see that not everything you have renounced can be solved exclusively from Euskadi, as you have said. Look, even in the renewed agreement it is still said that artistic programming and purchases will be done in accordance with the principles set out in Annex III, which they have not wanted to negotiate, in which it is clear that they propose and we pay. Just read it. Finally, counselor, they have also failed to comply with recommendation 12, which calls for avoiding the dual role of Mr. Vidarte, because he may have to attend to competing interests by running the Guggenheim Bilbao and at the same time be responsible for the overall strategy of the Solomon Foundation of New York. How are you going to solve this? I mean, are you going to avoid that dual act of Mr. Vidarte, which harms the Guggenheim Bilbao? How will recommendation 6, which recalls the obligation to provide Guggenheim Bilbao with a collection of Basque and Spanish contemporary art acquired with Solomon's funds, also be complied with? Is this also just about the Basque side, and you're going to decide in Bilbao's Guggenheim that Solomon buys what she's barely done so far? Nor is recommendation 13, which calls for the creation of an artistic leadership through an international merit competition, such as that held by all museums in the world, indispensable for having a coherent collection of its own and for making solid and complementary proposals to that of the Solomon Foundation, allowing for a more balanced dialogue with New York on the programming of acquisitions and exhibitions. For all this, a curatorial team is not enough; it is essential that the artistic director, who requested the Basque Parliament's presentation, should do so. And as for the specific participation of Basque art, and without being exhaustive, I will mention only two non-compliances. One, the need for Guggenheim Bilbao's own collection to have a significant and quality Basque art collection, recommendation 9. How are they going to do it? And when? The other relates to recommendation 10. How will you get there to be a biannual exhibition linked to the Basque Country, either of an artist or of a collective type? Will the Guggenheim Bilbao organize it without having Solomon? When will they decide? How will they do it? In short, the entire Basque character of the museum refers to selecting each year two emerging Basque artists to learn about the New York art scene through twelve activities in four weeks. And they'll pay for travel, medical insurance, accommodation, etc. That is the annual program for Basque artists they have achieved, that is the whole participation of Basque art as a result of the renewal of the agreement. Impressive, eh! Several recommendations of a parliamentary commission on the introduction of Basque art into the Guggenheim and a negotiation between the Basque Government, the Bizkaia Foral Diputation and the Solomon of New York, for that programme. Well, he'll also go, it's true, to four students for about three months, who will also pay for travel, health insurance, accommodation, etc. In short, as a counselor, the Basque side has not achieved the strength envisaged in the negotiations. There are recommendations that cannot be addressed by the Basque administrations without Solomon, and that is not negotiated because you have refused to negotiate at the root. You said that in your last appearance: you did not want to negotiate that because it is Bilbao's business. It's on tape! It is not a matter of Bilbao, for all this is neither only a matter of Bilbao nor is it resolved only with Bilbao, nor is it what the presentation said, nor is it going to be resolved easily once they have made the agreement they have made. So what are you going to do to comply with the recommendations of this Parliament, Counsellor?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u66	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u67	The lady's head. Mr Reyes, you insist on asking about something about which this Government and also the Bizkaia Foreign Office have already given a multitude of explanations. On 6 February, without going any further, he appeared before the Committee on Culture, Euskera, Youth and Sports to explain the terms in which the management agreement for the Guggenheim Bilbao had been renewed, and on that occasion we insisted, both the Vice-Counsellor for Culture and myself, that the scope of the renewed agreement should not be confused. However, you again insist today on mixing this agreement with aspects of the 1991 agreement. I remind you that this was a development and programming services agreement for the Guggenheim Museum in Bilbao. I know you have a lot of interest in renewing some aspects of that agreement, but you must understand that every thing, every agreement, has its own moment, rhythm and place, and it did not correspond at that time. Don't try to confuse. It must be made clear that under no circumstances do I mean that we have not complied with and complied with the recommendations of the paper. What this means is that at the time of the renewal of the management agreement with the Solomon Guggenheim Foundation, those recommendations proper to that agreement have been taken into account, as I will try to explain below, and the rest of the recommendations made by the presentation correspond to aspects to be analysed, discussed and, where appropriate, decided between the institutions at the local level, and not in New York. I am really surprised that you insist so much that these aspects should also have been raised in the renewal of the agreement, when, on the other hand, you are striving to demand greater autonomy and leadership from the Guggenheim Bilbao Museum. In any case, and given the insistence on non-compliance with the recommendations of the paper, I will then try to explain to what extent they have been implemented, starting with those directly related to the management agreement, even if it is repetitive. The first point of recommendations was to overcome the franchise. This advice is made clear, Mr. Reyes. We can find in the text many instances of that balance. It has been observed in the arrangement that the situation of 20 years ago and the present situation are widely different. 20 years ago, we were facing a completely new experience, and in this new experience the member of the Basque Country could not support the management of his competition and knowledge in a museum of these characteristics. Consequently, there was no guarantee that things would be made with excellence at this moment. They had to be proved. And now, yes, in 20 years, we've made it clear that we know how to do things well, with great seriousness and professionality. The second point is also addressed in the agreement, which talks about joint success, mutual collaboration and the contribution of the Bilbao Museum to the international image of the Guggenheim network. I think it is clear that we are not just customers of the Solomon Guggenheim Foundation, but necessary collaborators of the Guggenheim network, and that the Solomon Guggenheim Foundation itself has an interest in Bilbao remaining part of the network. The third recommendation of power demands that Guggenheim's Museum of Bilbao should make alliances with other institutions, and be able to make a good speech among the nations. There is no need, I think, to write in the text: it is a reality now. We all know that our museum has worked with the Centre Pompidou, the Tate Modern, Albertina in Vienna, and several other European and international institutions. The fourth, fifth, and sixth points, as I said before, we shall speak later. Point 7 refers to the rotation of the collections that make up the funds of the Solomon Foundation. This is one of the important points of the new agreement. In the fourth clause, the Solomon Guggenheim Foundation undertakes to strengthen the artistic programming of the Guggenheim Bilbao by organizing an exhibition with key and representative works of the Solomon Foundation collection in the 20th and 21st centuries for six months every two years at the Guggenheim Bilbao Museum, starting in 2016. Points 8, 9 and 10 are not directly related to this agreement, and we will therefore address them later. Recommendation 11 is that there should be greater commitment to the internationalization of Basque art. I sincerely believe that this commitment exists. Guggenheim Bilbao is very important for Basque artists and artists committed to internalisation, it is an important goal, for which being in the Guggenheim network is an excellent opportunity. Indeed, renewing the agreement with Guggenheim means renewing the bet for a Basque art more and better linked to the international scale. The 12th point proposes that the management of both organizations should be distinguished. In our opinion, this isn't a threat, it's an opportunity. This is the direction of the Bilbo Museum as a member of the global strategy of Solomon Guggenheim Foundation, it is supposed to be an active member for that network. With recommendations 13, 14, 15 and 16 of the presentation we are in the case explained above. These are issues that concern us and where New York or the Guggenheim network has no decision. With regard to point 17, I would like to stress that this is an agreement that we have signed, as you all know, after discussing it and negotiating it by the Basque institutions, without any disparity of criteria or disunity between them. There is no doubt, therefore, that this recommendation has been fully implemented. I can also say 18 and 19. That the spots are done. I have at first explained that an important part of the text checks and admits the autonomy of the Basque part. And no one doubts his European personality, much less the show program that the Guggenheim Museum of Bilbo has developed these 20 years. And as you know, we sent the lawmen to the Director of the Guggenheim Museum of Bilbao's worksheets to the Bigzian Bluewood Fortz and Guggenheim Bilbao, following the latest recommendation. These are, Mr Reyes, the aspects that have been expressly included in the management agreement. And, as I said earlier, the rest of the recommendations fall outside the scope of that agreement and have therefore not been addressed in the negotiation for its renewal. In any case, I insist that this does not mean that these recommendations have not been taken into account. What this means is that these are unique and exclusive to our area of decision-making. It is we, the Basque institutions, who must reflect, debate and decide about the Guggenheim we want. We are faced with a new structure of the relationship, with greater autonomy and greater protagonistism, and it is up to us to decide the strategic lines and guidelines of action of our museum. In this sense, I believe that the cultural evolution that the museum is experiencing in recent years is palpable. I find it difficult to believe that you, a great lover of culture in general and the Guggenheim museum in particular, have not appreciated any progress since the paper's opinion in June 2012. There are many steps taken, the progress made, and I do not want to extend, but I do want to list some that I consider significant and that are directly related to the recommendations of the speech you have quoted. In relation to paying more attention to the experience of the artistic and creators, in more than sixteen years the museum has presented 131 samples, 62 of the permanent collection and 69 temporary ones; 46 monographs or retrospectives have been devoted to contemporary artists; a variety of educational programs of great activity have been developed, aimed at students, teachers, families and disadvantaged groups. In relation to the Solomon Foundation's commitment to equip the Guggenheim Bilbao Museum with a collection of contemporary Basque and Spanish art, one of the axes around which the Guggenheim Bilbao Museum's own collection revolves is the special emphasis on Basque and Spanish art. The construction of the Guggenheim Bilbao museum was accompanied by the creation of a collection of its own and a unique identity that complemented the funds of the other collections. In this sense, the museum has achieved an extraordinary set of 128 pieces and 73 artists. It is a varied and coherent collection, which can be considered autonomous and significant, and has its own identity. In addition, one of the priorities of the collection itself is to reflect the presence of contemporary Basque art. Thus, of the total of 128 works that compose it, 37 have been performed by Basque artists, so that three generations of Basque authors are well represented since the mid-20th century, with the presence of artists such as Jorge Oteiza, Eduardo Chillida, Cristina Iglesias, Darío Urzay, Sergio Prego, Ibon Aranberri, Asier Mendizabal or Erlea Maneros. As for the curatorial part itself, the museum has worked in recent years a speech that affects Bilbao's own identity and that has been realized in the following exhibition projects developed by its curatorial team: Antoni Tàpies ("From object to sculpture"; Garmendia, Maneros Zabala, Salaberria; Ernesto Neto; and selections from the own collection. Also, since February 12, the Guggenheim website is available to call a curator's place for the Guggenheim Bilbao museum. In short, Mr Reyes, I believe that the Guggenheim Museum is doing a great deal of work to strengthen its museum personality in the curatorial area, to give greater visibility to its own collection and Basque art, to contribute to the knowledge of the art and values it represents, and to erect itself as a fundamental part of the Guggenheim Museum network, serving as a symbol and vitality of the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u69	Thank you, President. Bad habit is not to answer the questions! Not only does he lie in writing, but then he doesn't answer the questions. I have asked you a very specific question: with regard to the unfulfilled resolutions of this Parliament's presentation, how and when will it comply with them? Because you yourself said in the appearance that it was a question of the Basque part, it was a question of the Guggenheim museum in Bilbao. And he starts talking about an agreement that they just renewed, which I haven't asked him at all about. Would you please answer the question? A respect for this Parliament! What will you do to comply with the unfulfilled resolutions of the parliamentary presentation? That's a very clear question. Anyway, that's good. Look, you say I wasn't playing. For I will read to you – which I have quoted before, but I will read to you – the first recommendation of the paper, the first and fundamental, which drags all the others. It says, "First recommendation. A renegotiation of the development and programming services agreement for the Guggenheim Bilbao museum signed in 91, including Annex III, of the declaration of artistic programming, which allows for a more balanced contract in decision-making and not under franchise between the Basque administration and the foundation; "the renewal of the management agreement would be in accordance with the new negotiated bases", "we are now in a position to overcome the franchise regime and establish a joint partnership". I mean, the first recommendation is to do something you didn't want to do. And you can tell me, "Well, look, we haven't done it for these reasons, which hurt or not, or because we're going to achieve more in this way..." No, no, no, no! He just says he doesn't touch it. Look, this must be the third time I've asked you about this, in writing and with a loud voice! And at least be serious about saying that the resolutions of this Parliament's paper are not complying with them. Say it, explain why, let's discuss it, but don't come to me with what you've done in the renewed agreement. And don't get involved in the Guggenheim, which is to resort to flags, to the museum, to the success of the institutions... The appeal of those who have no arguments. The Guggenheim is fine, we all agree and we are all proud of it. I am talking about something that should be very important to this Government: the Basque side's decision-making capacity in the bilateral relationship between New York and Bilbao. And that's not that they mistraded it, it's that they didn't want to negotiate it. He has not yet said when they are going to do so, and at least acknowledge here, as he acknowledged at the hearing, that more than half of the resolutions, for that reason, have not complied with them. They haven't done it. Well, the artistic director is fundamental. It is talked about – and it is also common sense – in Parliament's presentation to build in a coherent way, from the museum's point of view, a museum's own collection. Not that they're just purchases that are made because Solomon proposes, because something that's worth it or someone from the curatorial team comes up with... No, no, no! That there be a head with responsibility, as there is in all the museums of the world, that poses the strategy of purchases to have a coherent collection for the Guggenheim Bilbao, not only paintings of the Guggenheim Bilbao. What if for some reason the relationship with the Bilbao Guggenheim is broken and we run out of funds from the New York Guggenheim, Solomon, with a collection that has no coherence, that is scarce, that is, that way, and a wonderful shell? That must be anticipated, a good ruler has to anticipate those things, and act by taking steps in the sense of avoiding it, which they are not doing. Annex III to the agreement to which it refers – the first resolution I mentioned – is so vital that annex, which refers to the policies of purchase and artistic programming. And, I repeat, there it is clear that they propose and we pay, and even in the new renewed agreement they refer to him because they have no other remedy. And they're gonna have to negotiate. And that wasn't the subject of a prior negotiation to tie all the ropes? Finally, please answer me, at least when you are going to fix the stalemate of unfulfilled resolutions, and how you are going to do it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u70	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u71	Reyes jauna, I am the one who asks you for respect, because it seems to me that you do not have it either to this House or to my person, of course. Again I tell you, the recommendations... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u72	Mr. Reyes, you don't have a word. No, Mr. Reyes, you don't have a word. No. You told him, you have to listen to them too. You don't have a word. No, you don't. Follow me, Mrs. Uriarte.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u73	As I have already said, the recommendations that we have failed to comply with again say that they were not the subject of the renewed agreement. They have therefore not been dealt with in that agreement. You don't want to understand that we are face to face with the Solomon Guggenheim Foundation because of the professionalism that has been shown for the past 20 years. This is the reason why the arrangement has been successfully renewed, and we can see the result of three principal aspects in the following: the balance, stability, and commitment of relationships, the deeper insight into co-workers. Gainera, akordioak aurreikusten du aldeek 2015ean zehar berrikusiko dutela garapenerako akordioari atxikitako programzio artistickoaren aitorpena. That the agreement provides throughout 2015 for the revision of the artistic programming declaration attached to the development agreement. But, going back to the various recommendations of the paper that have not been addressed (that are not unfulfilled, but not addressed) in the negotiation for the renewal of the agreement, and going into greater detail, we have that in recommendation 4, the mission of the museum, places special emphasis on its purpose to contribute to the knowledge of the art and the values that it represents. Over the past two years, the museum has launched initiatives that give young curators and artists from the nearest environment the opportunity to design projects and display their works specifically in one of the museum's halls. On the other hand, the presence of the museum has led to the activity of new initiatives and centers dedicated to contemporary creation and, in general, to artistic exhibition, such as Bilbao District of the Arts. What I am saying with this, sir, is that the recommendations are being complied with. It is not that they must be fulfilled from a concrete moment or agreed on a role, but that they are being developed over time. With regard to recommendation 6, for example, the experience gained and the operation of the network has advised that most of the works of Basque and Spanish art should be purchased by the Tenedora Society, joining the Bilbao collection. But, for its part, the Guggenheim Museum in New York has also been responding to its commitment to acquire works of local artists, and since the year 92 more than twenty-five works in this category have been incorporated into its collection. In relation to the tenth, in these years the museum has organized more than twenty exhibitions about the work of Basque artists, some of them exclusively, such as Cristina Iglesias, Eduardo Chillida, Oteiza, Lazkano, Jáuregui or Ortiz, as well as other exhibitions that included mostly works by Basque artists, and projects specifically aimed at young Basque artists and curators. This shows that the museum has not only devoted an exhibition to Basque art every two years, as I saw in the recommendation, but has done so with a more than annual periodicity, and not only by enhancing the exhibition of contemporary Basque creation, but has fully integrated it into its artistic programming and collection. In recommendation 13, which refers to artistic direction, the Guggenheim Museum has an artistic area consisting of seventeen people, including a museum director, three deputy directors (curatorial, research, education and interpretation), organization of artistic and personal content of different levels and technical profiles that make up the structural template of the artistic area of the museum. They have all been hired through public and open processes, as requested, ensuring free competition and equal opportunities, as well as selection based on merit, professionalism, experience and training tailored to the needs of each position. Moreover, as already indicated, since February 12, the Guggenheim website is available to call for a curator's seat for the Guggenheim Bilbao museum. In point 16 we are asked to extend and reformulate the patronage of the foundation so that it is not exclusively of private economic sponsorship. The management model of the museum is characterized by the priority objective of maximizing levels of self-financing, largely from the private sector. In line with this, it is the representatives of the companies and entities that collaborate with the financing of the museum that obtain, in return, a presence in the patronage of the foundation that allows them to participate in the decision-making that affects the functioning and operation of the institution that they support economically. After all, Mr. Reyes, I think it's data that guarantees management. There's been a lot of steps and there's been a lot of progress. And in this way, in the development of the museum, we must reflect, debate, and decide what Guggenheim we want. Again, we are faced with a new structure in the relationship, with greater autonomy and greater prominence. And it is up to us to decide the strategic lines and guidelines of action of our museum. Again, I would like to reiterate that the Guggenheim Museum is doing a great deal of work to strengthen its museum personality, and is moving forward. And he's doing it day by day. Not at a given time and in a document, but day by day.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask, "The question is, the members of the U.S. of the American legislature of the Oyrar and Miguel of the Basque Group made to the chief physician of Education, Language politics, and Cultural, about the reduction of the unions in the Educational field." Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, talking about free trade unions is really a taboo issue. It's very difficult to know the figures. Nobody wants to talk about this, not the Basque Government or the trade unions. But it is true that it is important for society to know exactly what terms we are talking about when we talk about free trade unions. There are three State laws regulating the allocation of hours for trade union work, for the award of workers: the Workers' Statute, the Public Employee Act, and the Organic Act on Freedom of Association. But here in 1988 the Basque Government already approved, in an agreement with the trade unions, that in practice this was to be overcome; that the above-mentioned laws were exceeded, and that in practice many more releases were allowed in the Basque country. Subsequently, the Department of Education – at that time led by EA – negotiated an agreement with the unions, in which the number of union releases on the public network is further increased. Other agreements, such as the one of the year 2010 (the government of Patxi López) also raise the number of freed trade unions in the Basque Country even more. You announced – we knew it through the media – that you wanted to reduce the 116 freed from public education, which costs around €6 million, to a figure close to 90 or 92 freed from trade unions. We want to know exactly what that has been about, what you have done, what steps you will take exactly to reduce the number of released. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u76	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u77	Thank you, Mrs. President of the legislature. Mr Oyarzabal, with regard to the question raised, on the reduction of trade union freedom in public education, Mr Erkoreka referred to this House in writing last January a detailed answer to the question put by his group concerning the adjustment of the hourly credit recognition of each elected representative and trade union to the provisions of the framework agreement on trade union rights and the exercise of trade union activity. The Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture has so far carried out the necessary actions in order to comply with the statement of the Councillor of Justice and Public Administration to bring this recognition into line with the 1988 framework agreement. This work has always sought to maintain the balance between the need to regularize a long-standing situation and the demand of the trade unions themselves to respect the period of trade union elections.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u79	But, counselor, you haven't answered me. You don't tell me... Do you have the determination to reduce the freed trade unions, yes or no? Hey, the numbers are singing! We have asked on several occasions about the number of freed trade unions in our community. Hey, in the General Administration there were 128 union releases in 2010, and in 2011, 139; in Osakidetza, from 310 in 2010 it is increased to 418 in 2011; in EITB, from 43 to 49; in Euskal Trenbidea we do not provide the data; in public societies, from 46 to 57... Hey, what's going on? It's just that here we have more and more freed trade unions! Does the Basque Government devote hundreds of civil servants to seeing how it can annoy civil servants, how it can try to harm their rights in some way, which we need more and more freed trade unions to defend workers' rights? What's going on? Is the Basque Government the enemy of the public service and that is why the unions need more and more freed defenders every day? Because, hey, it's that they're increasing in all cases, in all cases. It is that the Basque Administration has increased from 776 released in 2010 to 913. Hey, this is no joke! We can also add the eighteen released in the concerted teaching. 58,000 euros for release. 58,000 euros for each released! We're talking about almost 9 million euros in education, 36 freed at the university... More than EUR 50 million has already been mentioned for those released who are dependent on the Basque administration. This is already an irregularity, this is a hoax. They're arbitrary decisions. Every time you want to agree something with the unions, what you're doing under the table is increasing the freed ones, and that has cost for this society, it has cost for the public coffers. Each negotiation becomes a hub for trade unions: hours given to trade unions for different interests, with a great cost to the public coffers. We want you to come out here and tell us if you have the determination to reduce the number of union releases. Let us know what it is going to do, how many it will reduce, if indeed the Basque Government has a commitment to do so, if this rush to increase the number of union members will continue to grow year after year simply according to the interests of the power stations and to overcome the difficulties of the moment of each department. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u80	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u81	Mr. Oyarzabal, don't worry. Of course, we have the determination and commitment to move forward on this path. And, as I told you before, this department has been working for a long time in order to comply with the decision taken to adjust the recognition of hourly credits. I share your concern, and that is why we are working. First of all, we put a point in the list of the November 5th, 2014 sactorial tables on this subject. It was there that the unions were informed that the hour council should be adjusted before January 1st, 2015. At the same time, each union was given to know of the complete credit which had hitherto been applied to it, and which had evidently been a distinct estimate of strength, and which would have been introduced before January 1st, 2015. On the 9th of December, 2014, the head of the workers' Kudeak sent a letter about syndicate rights and syndicate rights on union rights and the organization of the Euscal Autonomia Erdigo. In this writing, the unions were asked to send a list before December 17th, which, according to the new count, would continue to be paid from January 1st, 2015. However, far from receiving the requested information, what we received were written by the trade union centres expressing their disagreement and opposition to this measure. We then convened a new sectoral table, which took place on 23 December 2014. The meeting dealt with a single item on the agenda: additional trade union credits. And a few days later, on December 29, 2014, a new letter from the Director of Personnel Management was sent to the trade unions. This letter again requested the transfer of the staff relationship that would continue as a union freed from 1 January 2015, once the corresponding adjustment had been made. I shall remind you of what has been said in that letter in words: "If the believers don't send the list that was requested in the letter of December 9, it's impossible to adapt... "I don't know.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u82	Thank you, chief physician. Mrs. Chief, time is up! The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "about the steps of Natalia Rojo Sozana Sozia Sozialists to the Chief of Education, Language Politics, and Cultuate, which is the only license for sport, and which is to be done by Euskana. " Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u83	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. About a year ago this House, on a proposal from the Socialist Group, adopted a broad agreement on the single sports licence, which called on the Spanish Government to respect the powers granted to the autonomous communities in the field of sport since the Constitution, and to reverse the decision to impose the single sports licence. The Government of Spain, however, has finally approved the final legal text of Law 15/2014 of 16 September, on the rationalization of the public sector, and other administrative reform measures that will involve the implementation of the single sports license through the amendment of Article 32.4 of the Law. This amendment sets out the need for a licence to participate in any official competition, including the autonomous ones, stating that such a licence must be issued on a one-off basis by the autonomous federations that are part of the corresponding state federation, but always observing sufficient compensation to the state federations in the amount approved by the state federation itself. The same agreement adopted in 2014 requested the Basque Government to take the initiative and take steps in defence of the sports skills of the Basque Autonomous Community, in order to preserve its decision-making capacity in this area and to prevent the introduction of a single sports licence. In the responses sent by the Basque Government to questions posed by the Socialist Group, we are informed that in December 2013 the Executive forwarded its assessment and proposal to the Higher Sports Council in relation to this issue, in order not to introduce such a license, and to maintain the autonomous ones for those who wish to participate only in sports competitions at the state level. Apart from the fact that the Basque Government, as stated in the same parliamentary response, denounces the competitive invasion of the single sports licence. What we want to ask you from our group is what other steps you intend to take to defend your exclusive competence in sport, bearing in mind that they have not been respected with this license.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u84	Thank you, Miss Rojo. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u85	Mme. head of the table. Miss Rojo, I've told you over and over and over again, it's against the new Red Beetle Law. Thus we have expressed it in all our meetings with the High Council of Sports, and in all the answers we have given of this subject. As you have said, we also sent our suggestions to the High Council of Sports on December 2013, with the intention of protecting the exclusive resources of the Basque Autonomy in the field of sport; in detail, those who want to be alone in the autonomical sports contests would be able to continue with their licenses. Some smaller parties have been considered and have been added to the text of the eternal law. For example, some concerning the freedom of each autonomical faith to fix and receive economic quota. In any case, without heeding us and the will of most autonomical sports departments, the central Government has accepted the final legal text. However, the central Government has adopted the final legal text, disregarding the will of the Basque Government and the majority of the autonomous sports federations, which have shown their rejection of the single sports license. Mrs Rojo, in the face of this situation, we can only denounce the manifest invasion of competition that involves the introduction of the single sports license, and we will certainly continue to do everything in our power to fight in favour of our exclusive competences.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u87	Counselor, that the government was against the one-time license, so far we were already there. But what are you going to do? Apart from the anger, the kicking, the saying "we're against," what are they going to do? Because what you can't do is be all day giving the baton in the defense of autonomous competence in sports matters, putting in the Basque elections as a flag of the Basque Nationalist Party the Christmas football matches, and when there really comes the problem that the Spanish Government affects autonomous competence you just send a document in which you say why you are against, and you are already. This is like what you do with the Lomce! Say, "We're against it," to end up applying it. Same thing. You know that things can be done, such as leaving the interterritorial conference, which is what Andalusia has done, or forcing the Government of Spain to set up study groups on the subject to see what can be done from the Autonomous Community. But, of course, what an autonomous government cannot do is simply say, "We are against it," to end up fulfilling everything, which is what you always do. So, my question was clear. I know that the Basque Government is against it, or I want to believe it, because that is what you have said in all the speeches of this group, referring to the subject, but what are you going to do? Because here in this Parliament, a non-legislative motion was passed by a majority of Parliament, which urged you to act, and a year later we are just as we were twelve months ago, in which you say that you are against it but you do not finish telling us anything. So, what I'm asking in this question of control of the government is that please tell us what it's going to do. I know it's the only license, I know you're against it, I know you've sent a document, and I know you say, "We'll do everything in our hands." What's in your hand? What do you intend to do? What are your department's plans of work so that you can be against and actually do something effective so that the federations concerned here know what your government gives them? Or are you going to follow the flag of the Basque football team to do nothing?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u88	Thank you, Miss Rojo. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u89	Mrs Rojo, this Government has not ruled out any option, and we therefore do not rule out recourse to the Constitutional Court. But, as you also know, every resource has its risks, has its positive sides and its negative aspects, and it must be valued very well. We are in a position to think, until June 2015, whether it is appropriate for the interests of Basque citizens to resort to the law or not. In the light of this decision to appeal, the Government is also open to a bilateral negotiation process with the State Administration in order to be able to reach agreements on the prospects for the interpretation or applicability of the law, in which case it is also in a position to consider what kind of solutions and alternatives can be articulated in the interests of Basque citizens. Finally, before we sue him, to apply that law that we don't agree with him to do as little damage to the Basques and the sporting people as possible, this Decoration will continue to think. Therefore we must necessarily examine and project the schemas and attitudes that must be modified in our sport, and by our hands and euphora. So we haven't given up any chance, but we're clear that the decision is a matter of thought. That's what we're thinking about for our people, our sportsmen and sportsmen. In short, we will have to take whatever steps are necessary for the implementation of this law, be it as beneficial or as less harmful as possible to our citizens, as we have unfortunately had to do with every attack or cut-off of the Basque self-government. Attacks which, by the way, have sometimes been prompted by the political choice of the parliamentarian who is now questioning them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary laws of Laura Garrido Knörr of the Popula team made to the chief physician of the Medical Department, the Department of Diggest Service in AUO." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u91	Sí, gracias, señora presidenita. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments, head of health, members of the legislature. With the project of unification of the University Hospital of Álava, where the two structures are being integrated, the services corresponding to Txagorritxu and Santiago – and, therefore, the specialists of both headquarters share functions in health care – we are seeing throughout this process that there are problems, many problematic aspects in relation specifically to the way in which this integration is being carried out. In particular, we are bringing here again today, because this is not the first time that this Parliament has dealt with this issue, all concerning the problems in the Digestive Service of the University Hospital of Álava. We have to say that they are clearly problems arising from mismanagement and how this service is organised, and it has to be said that this mismanagement, which is having an impact on the organisation, is diminishing the quality of care provided to citizens, and has a concrete effect on re-entry and delays. That is why we are asking you again in this Parliament, Mr Councillor, what criteria you are going to adopt from your department, and with the responsibility you bear at the head of it, to solve once and for all the problems in the Digestive Service of the University Hospital of Álava.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u92	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners, Mrs Garrido. I have appeared in the Committee on Health and Consumer Affairs in this Parliament on numerous occasions to talk about the project of hospital unification in Álava. I have always stated that the objective of the process is to improve the coordination of all services, improve the quality of health care and equip the alavesas and alavesas of the tertiary hospital that they need. You came out here and told me about problems. You should talk to me about "the problem," because you always talk to me about it. I mean, I hear you repeatedly talking about the same service, obviously. The trade of two public hospitals is to offer the Arabs a better service, no doubt. The objective has not changed, but we must be aware that merging organizations of important size, with different cultures, although it is a necessary and future project, is a task that will always have problems. In this sense, it is true that there is a situation to improve in the Diagnostic Service of HUA, and this implies that the hospital must work to fundamentally overcome the climate of labor relations among some of the professionals. You will agree with me, Mrs Garrido, that in any organization of the kind, including the political parties, problems often arise, without compromising the mission and the essential objectives of the organization in question. In the case of the University Hospital of Álava, with more than 2,800 workers, it also happens, which does not mean that it does not seem to us to be an issue to which the management of the center should pay attention, but I want to clear up any doubts about the quality and safety of the provision of the Digestive Service. Whenever you want we analyze the re-entry of the HUA and the hospital you choose from Spain. The service we serve in the hospital of the Arabs is excellent, both in this speciality and in all others. It doesn't help anything to get rid of anything.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u94	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u95	Yes, Mr. Counselor. Well, self-congratulation is usually the excuse for one to feign or get out of the joke so that one doesn't face problems. And I also have to tell him that there are problems and problems. You here recognized that you have a problem! You recognized that there were integration problems and that there had actually been problems in the Digestive Service, and that it was a matter of concern. He even spoke of "conflict." Therefore, we are not talking about a minor problem! There are problems and problems, but you in the October 20 appearance were already talking about a conflict and the willingness of the hospital management to resolve the conflict. I regret that today you did not answer the question I asked you, which is really what you are going to do to solve the problem, the conflict in the U.K.A. Digestive Service that you referred to in the committee on 20 October. It is clear that we are facing a problem that is being addressed, a problem that is being chronicled, and that it is a problem that is clearly the result of mismanagement and misplanning of this service. Problems and questions relating to the appointment of the head of service, who was judicialized, a judicialized issue. People who have made suggestions in this service who have been relegated for making suggestions in a constructive area. With regard to contracts, in a recent written answer question we are clearly told that two contracts have been completed, but it is not specified which contracts those persons had or why those contracts have not been renewed. It's a very important question! And why people who finish contracts are not being renewed and people who have less experience are being incorporated. In short, Mr. Councilman, we do not know the criteria of cessations, extensions... It's stopped older people! You will have to explain how people who are older are being stopped and removed from this service. Not to mention the vacancies. It is said that there are untitled vacancies in the category of optional of the specialty in digestive, but there is no record of their amortization and the conversion of these places. This therefore leads us to the conclusion that recruitment decisions are governed by arbitrariness, and the most obvious conclusion is that vocational training and experience are not being taken into account. But apart from that, we have to talk about the effects. I told him about the delays. The data you have given us are not real, they do not correspond to the data of the citation figures. They have nothing to do with it! They tell us about three months waiting in a colonoscopy. Or on the issue of re-entry, there are no reasons for re-entry. It is not the same as a re-entry of a chronic patient as that of an acute patient with an early discharge. In short, Mr President-in-Office, the repeated decisions being taken in this service are exacerbating a problem, and what we want is, once and for all, solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u96	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u97	Andrea president. Garrido anderea, I think you misinterpret the data. Let's see, re-entry is never measured if it's from acute patients or chronic patients. They are usually measured if they are seven days or if they are thirty days after re-entry. In the Digestive Service, as you asked me in writing, there is no vacant position that is not reserved. No places have been amortized in the Digestive Service. There were only temporary contracts that have a beginning and an end, and when the contract ends, if it is a temporary contract and has finished its functions, because it is not renewed, as in any other organization. In the Digestive Service there is no problem at this time that affects the quality of the same, and you know it perfectly. The merger of complex organizations that have previously been in competition, competing one service with another, is always complicated. In Osakidetza we had the experience of Donostia Hospital, and it took us time also to merge it. They are very large organizations, where many people work, where they have previously had different heads, where you have to unify cultures, where you have to unify people, and where not always everyone is professional enough to get along well, and you know it. He's talking to me about an organization where at the moment, in Osakidetza as a whole, 32,000 people work, and he tells me that there are three or four people in a service that at the moment are not happy enough, and that this affects the working climate. And of course we are concerned, because the working climate has a great impact on how services work, and that is where we are. But that's the problem, Mrs. Garrido. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-27.u98	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was twelve o'clock in the afternoon and seven.
