ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u0	Good morning. We're going to start the Os meeting. Let each of you sit down on your seat... First, remember that the congressman Ana Ottadui has a vote. On the other hand, I grant that the second point will be discussed at the first point, the first at the second point, the fifth has been retired, the seventh point at the third point, and the third in the seventh. Second point on the subject list: "Motion, Mineia Llanos Gómez, introduced by the member of the Basque Groups of Potula, representing the Director of EIB. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal, Mrs. Llanos, is yours to introduce and defend the word. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u1	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. It is true that this issue that we are going to discuss has been dealt with on many occasions in this House, but I think it should be reiterated, because, if not, it might seem that, with the words "We are not going to fulfil the parliamentary mandate of 5 February", a pen will disappear the problems that our public body EITB has. In the plenary, which resulted in this motion, in which I called on the Education and Linguistic Policy Adviser if she was to fulfil the mandate of 5 February, when the parliamentary majority asked the Government to cease the Director-General of EITB, she replied that she did not, as she said not the Lehendakari, in a clear disregard of the will of this House. I was saying in both plenary sessions, and I want to reiterate it here today, that EITB, since the arrival of the Lehendakari Urkullu and Maite Iturbe and his team, has been living the worst moment of its history. The management and the staff are faced, the editorial staff are still enveloped with complaints, the television audiences, no matter how much they try to mask themselves, they don't take off, and the job management is clearly disastrous. There was the first strike in the history of Radio Euskadi, day of absolute silence, seven days, and almost general blackout. And a new strike took place on the 24th, and once again the management refused to program indications during radio broadcasts to inform the reason for that strike, in a clear example of how little the management of EITB cares about being a public service at the service of citizens. Once again it is shown that what the PNV does not like is silenced in EITB, and its intention that public radio stations are not at the service of citizens, but at the service of party interests. It seems to us that it is not welcome to have the workers protesting in the street one day yes and another also. Apparently, the government of the Basque Nationalist Party and the leadership of EITB seem to be doing so. Protesting the violation of their rights, because the result of the public call for employment is that many people, almost 70, some with many years working in the entity, will go to unemployment. Because we find ourselves, ladies and gentlemen, with an OPE or a call for public employment which paradoxically means that, far from creating it, it will destroy it. It was justified from the management, as we have said on many occasions, by the need to regularize contracts, but, as we have said since then, this regularization had already occurred, it was already regularized. Then the intention of EITB was clear, as the director said in her last appearance: "The staff is eaten two thirds of the budget, and it must be reduced." That is the only intention of the management, not the regularization of the staff. No, ladies and gentlemen, just cut costs. Reduce costs so that you do not have to inject another EUR 4 million again to prevent the balance sheet from being deficient. And it may seem to this group that costs are reduced, of course, but that all the parameters are taken into account; that it is done head-on, courageously, and dealing with the consequences, and not using the weakest link. That is why, as we have always said in each and every debate since the first session of the board of directors in which this offer of public employment was voted, it is a covert ERE, a reduction in places. And it was surprising that you wanted to sell as a job creation, which is nothing more than a reduction of the job creation. A call, as I said, aimed at destroying employment, and violating the rights of workers, whose employment relationship with the entity had already been declared by the labour inspectorate. The call has been challenged by the State Attorney's Office, which has not failed in favour of EITB, as we were wanted to see the other day on the board of directors. No; what he has said is that the remedy is presented in social jurisdiction. That just changes the playing field. The case is that it will have to be transferred within the next twenty days to the Social Court, which will have to analyze the legality of this public call for employment. In addition, there are two other pending processes driven by workers. So, as we have said on many occasions, what will happen if those 79 people finally have to be readmitted? To the three million that had to be paid to Social Security, will there now have to add more funds? Is another ERE going to be made with more seats? Again and again, as we have said here, he denied that it was an ERE. Over and over again, the workers and the groups said it was. But at last January's meeting, as I said here fifteen days ago, the letters were already placed on the table and the ERE was exposed. That's right, with a last name: an instrumental ERE. Instrumental, yes, as I said, because it's an instrument to throw people out of the street who have a working relationship with EITB. Because, as I have said many times, this means that many workers go to the streets. As I say, turn to the weakest link. Now, we are talking about excessive staff costs, sustainability..., radio needs, and the question that needs to be asked is: Why are radio needs only analysed? Why isn't the whole staff studied? Why aren't contracts with producers studied? Why is the possibility of optimizing these templates not being explored? What's going to happen to EITB-Net? Because another court has agreed that thirty M4F workers will also become non-fixed indefinite, then now the EITB-Net staff has doubled. What are you going to do, put on another patch by making a job call to regularize those workers again? And here we ask for your cessation, all the groups, but also the workers have asked for it, because after doing a consultation it resulted in an overwhelming majority saying that the EITB leadership could not go ahead. So, as I say, it has the rejection of the entity's workers and it does not have the support of Parliament. It seems, as I said, that sometimes the decisions of this House must be met at joint feet, and those who do not attend to them are immeasurable. Not in other cases. And who else should take care of them, which is the government leaving this Parliament, points out that it is not going to comply with a decision of the same, and argues that the opposition makes no proposal for leadership. In compliance with an initiative presented by this group and approved, the House reports on the implementation of parliamentary mandates. Well, perhaps in that report from now on, a new paragraph has to appear, addressed to those directly decided by the Government that it will not comply. And don't make excuses, gentlemen of the government, for the opposition's lack of proposal. It is you, Mr Urkullu, who must propose to the new leadership; those who, in fulfilling the mandate of this House, must cease to be the current leadership and make the proposal for a new leadership, given the loss of confidence in the current one. Do not pass the ball to the roof of the opposition. But, as I say, they do not seem to be willing to do so, and they are shielded from the fact that Parliament's decisions in the form of non-legislative proposals are not binding, and in the different nature of the reasons for voting in favour. And it's true that the reasons may vary, but the decision was that. As I was saying, of course the reasons may vary. In our case, in addition to the harmful work management, we have also put as a reason to ask for the termination of the line that ETB carries in relation to the content of the programming and its lack of correspondence with its character as a public service. As I have said on many occasions, the current issues of EITB, in addition to being reports of the kindness of each and every decision of the Basque Government and of criticism of each and every decision of the Spanish Government, are basically reduced to those issues on the agenda of nationalist groups. As we have said many times, the status, the new political status, the ETA prisoners, are the issues that are being debated every day. The treatment of initiatives is diametrically opposed if their paternity is the responsibility of the Basque Nationalist Party, or Bildu in some cases, which in this case become the usual reference when designing the contents of information and debate. However, when these same initiatives come from non-nationalist groups, the treatment is radically different. Moreover, the contents of the chain do not reflect the problems of Basques. Because what is the main concern of the Basques? The main concern of the Basques at this time, in any of the surveys you look at, is employment and economic recovery. And, therefore, what is the obligation of a means of communication, and above all a means of public communication? To inform the citizens and to deal with those issues of interest to the Basques, because, as I have said many times, it is a means paid with the money of everyone, and, therefore, everyone must be reflected regardless of their ideology. But, as I say, that doesn't happen right now in EITB. And I have said it many times and I want to repeat it so that it is clear: if you are a nationalist you are a first-class spectator; if you are not, you are clearly a second-class spectator. Priority in content and approach responds not to current criteria, but to criteria of political opportunity. More than political opportunity, party opportunity, to always benefit the same interests. And I am not going to extend now, but, if not, then in the replica I will give the example of the treatment of the state of the nation debate, for example. We understand that EITB is failing to report to indoctrinate, and the truth is that, as I said and I want to repeat here, the Basque Nationalist Party does not have to wait for municipal elections to pass to tell us what its political model is for Euskadi: the one they have implanted in EITB. An EITB also, also, in which the treatment of terrorism – as I said, and I want to repeat it – always oscillates between complicity and moral cowardice. We find that the contribution that EITB should make to make a story about terrorism in which memory is an essential tool for the total delegitimization of it must be a contribution from selective memory, but yet in EITB this does not happen. It doesn't happen. Because, as I say, the contribution is made from selective memory, without recognizing the injustice of terrorism, the damage caused and the dignity of the victims. Any anniversary is sought from EITB to justify the broadcast of a film, a programming, interviews with LAG family members. And, as I have said on many occasions, we are absolutely in agreement with this, as long as the treatment of the victims of ETA and the terrorism of ETA is comparable. But it's not like that, it's not like that. As I have said many times, while the film "Lasa and Zabala" we live in EITB frame-to-frame, yet films dedicated to ETA terrorism never appear. While "Asian eta biok" appears in prime time, films like "1980" are said to be too sectarian and cannot be broadcast in EITB. That is the delegitimization of ETA terrorism that EITB is currently doing. Not to mention, for not insisting here on Mikel Zubimendi's intervention in the program "Debate" making the statements he made, that after asking here, after bringing the issue back to the board of directors, we only got from the director of EITB to say that she will comply with the strategic plan regarding the delegitimization of terrorism, but not a word of censure of what appeared to her Mikel Zubimendi's intervention. I therefore believe that it would not be wrong for the Basque Government and EITB to adopt Law 4/2008 on the Recognition and Reparation of Victims of Terrorism, adopted in this Parliament, and to implement its Article 4, committing themselves to promoting awareness-raising and training campaigns for information professionals in order to promote the protection of the rights and dignity of victims and their families. Because the truth is that you don't understand those mistakes or those so infamous miscarriages always with the victims of ETA terrorism. Because either EITB's management has not just controlled EITB on some issues, or looks elsewhere, or, what would be more serious, agrees on some assumptions with what is done. Therefore, from all points of view, the management of the current management is not sustained in any aspect. As we have said, there are requests from all areas for their replacement, but the most important is that which took place in this House on 5 February, in which the parliamentary majority said that it could not continue in its place. And it is not for the parliamentary majority to make a proposal for a new direction. That is the responsibility of the Government. Or what, that if we ask for the cessation of a councillor the opposition has to say which councillor has to replace him? I don't think that's a receipt. That, as I say, is to put the ball on the roof of the opposition, because there is not enough courage to make a decision, and enough respect for this House to make a decision that the House has asked you to make. That's why we asked to know what they were going to do after this. We were very clear about your answer, but today we ask you again to respect the decision of this House. That is why we have signed a compromise amendment with the UPyD Group, which has two specific points. The first is that this decision made on 5 February is respected, and the second is that the new EITB management undertakes to turn EITB into a real public service and that it complies with what is set out in the strategic plan. I don't think it's too much to ask. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u2	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u3	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to you all, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari. It is not just a question of you respecting what this Parliament says, but of fulfilling what this Parliament says. And the truth is that this government's unfulfilled parliamentary initiatives are already piling up, but this one is essential and is extremely important. And this House has already spoken, and I do not know why we need to re-examine a matter that has already been dealt with. Here's the thing. On 5 February, the Basque Parliament called for the dismissal of the Director-General of EITB, called for his cessation, withdrew his confidence. Parliament elected it at a certain point as a result of a political pact – which has never been explained, by the way – between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, and a time later, in particular two weeks ago, this Parliament said that it did not want this person to continue to be Director General of EITB. You, therefore, Mr Lehendakari, must comply, you must withdraw your trust in the Director General of EITB. It has lost Parliament's confidence; it therefore does not meet the minimum requirements for continuing to be Director-General of EITB. And what you have shown over the past two weeks is that you absolutely disregard the mandates of this Parliament. I myself asked him whether he was going to fulfil this parliamentary mandate, because we feared the worst, and indeed you said no, and he gave absolutely unsustainable reasons. It cannot be said that you are not going to fulfil that parliamentary mandate because there have been various political groups that have signed a transactional and that the signing of that transactional is the result of different positions among those political groups. It is unsustainable, because we all said at least one thing, we all agree on at least one question: that the Director General of EITB cannot continue to be Director General of EITB. And all groups, without exception, we also said very clearly that the current leadership of EITB is at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party. He didn't just say UPyD, we said it all the groups. Then, of course, each one can better explain his reasons and his differences, and what he sees to be done wrong from EITB, but in that we agree, Mr Lehendakari. All the groups in the House, except the Basque Nationalist Party, which is obviously the political party served by the current general leadership of EITB. Therefore, this new transaction that we have signed, in this case with the People's Party (we signed a transaction with the Socialist Group two weeks ago), makes a double appeal to Mrs Iturbe to realise that she no longer enjoys the confidence of this Parliament. But I think it is also time that this Parliament began to look at you, because you are most responsible for keeping a person in your office who does not enjoy the confidence of this Parliament. In short, we have been giving sufficient reasons for this person's inability to remain in office for some time. Basically, at least on the part of UPyD, because it is at the service of the Basque Government and it is at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party. Therefore, what you have to do – and already tire of having to repeat the reasons why we ask for this – what you have to do is ask the EITB Director General to cease, withdraw your confidence. And if Mrs. Iturbe had a minimum of dignity, she would leave quickly. It should have been gone by now, because she has seen that she does not enjoy the confidence of this Parliament. We have explained that EITB has ceased to comply – if it ever did – with the fundamental principles that it should follow: informative objectivity, ideological neutrality, respect for political pluralism, veracity, impartiality, professionalism. This EITB no longer fulfils, it takes time to fail, and especially in the last two years. The reasons accrue to us: how the themes are dealt with, when the themes are dealt with, the language used, the way to narrate what is told, the tertullians, the tertullians, the moderators, the teleberris, the information programs... It's a whole bunch of things that make the maintenance of the current CEO of EITB unsustainable. Because she's responsible, but you're ultimately responsible. You are ultimately responsible for keeping this situation going. That is why we have come to this compromise amendment, which we hope will again be adopted by a majority of groups. It says the amendment of the Basque Nationalist Group, or defines in this amendment to EITB, the amendment of the Basque Nationalist Group, as one of the fundamental pillars of Basque self-government. The point is that EITB is one of the fundamental pillars of Basque nationalism, and this is what it cannot be. It must be at the service of the whole citizenry. Or is it that what this Parliament is saying is not worth anything? Isn't it worth anything? Are we not saying that there is an immense majority that we do not see represented in the current general direction of EITB and in what it does every day EITB? Which is no longer only UPyD's thing, no: a majority of groups. You're blind, you're deaf, you don't realize this situation? Don't you realize this? I think that, in fact, we are tired of having to insist on this issue. There are many things that are needed. Of course, in the short term, the Director-General of EITB will be changed, as a matter of urgency. And, of course, the EITB Creation Act should also be amended. We, almost two years ago, presented an initiative urging the Government to submit an amendment to this law, so that both the general management of EITB and the board of directors of EITB can be elected in a different way, to ensure the professionalism of all its members, which must be guaranteed. I now note, in the last few days, that some other group has put forward a similar or similar proposal at the press conference. We defended her here two years ago. It is about having professionals at the service of society as a whole, not political representatives who are going to defend a particular political party or who are going to screw the government. We have already defended it, and that task also remains to be done: to amend the law to correct the way in which the general management of EITB and the members of the board of directors are elected, so that they are not political commissioners or representatives of the various political parties. We also defended it two years ago, and the rest of the groups voted against it. Everyone voted against, but that work, sooner or later, will have to be done, in order to have the best possible public service. And of course we also need to reflect very deeply on what EITB we want for the future. We think we need to resize it and we need to make a profound change in its structure. Indeed, do not make it disappear, at all, but do a service. Of course, if it is going to be at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party, what we are saying is that we are not prepared for citizens to have to pay 110 million euros every year. To be paid directly by the Basque Nationalist Party, or each of its affiliates. These I believe are the three things that must be done urgently: the dismissal of the current CEO of EITB, the amendment of the law so that this direction can be chosen with a clean procedure and the best professionals can be chosen, and a deep reflection on what exactly we want, including, obviously, its resizing. Finally, we hope that Mrs Iturbe will see what each of the political parties says, and we hope that the Lehendakari will respect Parliament and fulfil parliamentary mandates, as well as that of 5 February.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u4	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Urruzuno, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u5	Good morning, everyone. When we heard of this motion, we didn't really know whether the discussion of this motion was really to be a repetition of the discussion we had on February 5th, or whether it was a controversy about what the Government does not conform to the law of this Chamber. We believe this Chamber is accepted to disobey the Government... nor do we say that all the lawful are equal, nor that they are of equal importance, nor that all ought to be fulfilled in this respect. But in order not to comply with such matters, we believe that this Chamber, and the business of this Chamber itself, is the question or uncertainty of the Government. If the debate is to repeat him on February 5th, I thought there's a rule that says that at the same time, at the same time, one thing can't be brought to the vote twice the same. I thought so, but it doesn't seem to be that way either. However, if it is to come to the argument, if it is to come to the discussion of February 5th, I shall try not to repeat it too much. The Basque Country was held up by a clear political position. Seeing this matter accords to a problem which arises after the public calling of the Euskals, which is carried on by the Euskal People, it says we must proceed with this public calling. He asks that this public calling of work does not admit of any display or extinctional expedition. For once we were saying that EIB's planatilla must be negotiated, and that, to the point, we also took him to the 24th Administration Council of February. And it was the only initiative that ever came out of the administrative committee. And in this political position we were asking for another matter, and it was time to solve the political concerns of EIB. And in this sense we demanded political care, both of us. On the second point of the motion by the People's Party, Mrs Llanos, listening to it gives me the impression that, given the evident inability of the People's Party to adapt to the socio-political reality of the country, the People's Party claims that it is the EITB that is in line with the political positions of the People's Party. You don't have a problem with EITB, you have it with Basque society, because you're getting more and more away from your demands. And not just in politics, not just in what you could define as nationalist demands. Also in the economic and also in the social fields. I wanted to make this clear, because we do not share the raison d'être of their second point. We do not share, although we might say that we too are critical of the editorial line of ITBE's informational treatment. We believe that it is censored, by eliminating a debate because Unionism has complained. We are also surprised that seven dead in the works of the TAV have less space in EITB than one in Deskarga; that EITB Bidegi is further away than the EREs of Andalusia or the Pujol family. And we are also surprised to be able to give a news about Hiriko without mentioning the PNV, but EITB gets it. But, still, we believe that when we address the issue of information processing, the editorial line, the People's Party and Euskal Herria Bildu are not referring to the same thing. Anyway, the Royal Academy of Language says "clean up, fix and give splendor" to the Spanish language. We believe that something similar happens in EITB, but with PNV. In the news, EIB must strengthen professionalism, specialization and independence. We need to encourage the internal organisation based on ability and professional promotional system. There's no sense in what happens in that house now. I mean, all the newsmakers, such as editors, editors, newsmasters, all of them with their fingers. This has no meaning, or may have the whole meaning, if the treatment to which they are referred is already sought for by a very specific treatment. The present structure must be changed, and we shall wager on the use of other systems, so that the news will always be based on independent criteria, neutrals, and objectives. And we also seek news that they will be protected by the editorial Council, where the editor's hearing will have no reason to complain about it. With a team of eTV communications, he has information on his back. We believe that at the foundation of information, and in the target, the Basque People must be the Basque People, that is to say, the Basques. Because EIB is the only public and the largest team of communications in the Basque Country, it's indispensable to his own agenda. Because EIB has enough materials to mark our own address book here and be a pioneer on the information of our own diary here. In the midst of many and living nations, professional institutions must be released from these political and pressureal competitions, and this is what the Basque Country has been since the first minute of this law, of Mrs. Iturbe's nomination. And we believe all such attempts have not been given in this house to all the necessary reflections. Now, I don't know what a suggestion the Socialist presents for middle-term, long-term. That's what we proposed two years ago at Iturbe's nomination. It's not what you need now, EIB has been in need of it for many years. So welcome. Let us discuss this in order to be frank with a public media which this people requires. This was the love of Mrs. Iturbe's appointment when the Basque Country was voted, and two years later, that's what protects the Basque Country. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u6	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Uribe-Homevary, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Chief of Parliament. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Obviously, we are going to vote against all the proposals put forward, because we reiterate once again that in our view there are no objective reasons for asking for any sort of relief, because the current team of the EITB management is developing remarkable professional work, and there are the data, and because furthermore, given the absence of an alternative, it would be an inexplicable institutional irresponsibility to leave EITB unaddressed, which we are obviously not going to do, no matter how much insulting or arrogant language is used. It was clear, as we have already stated, that the direction of the EITB today is our protection, because they are doing a decent professional work, because they are fulfilling their ends and would be an institutional imprudence to leave EIB without direction. From this Illus, it seems to us that it is a good time for us to recapitulate what we have often said, and again to say that the EIB team is the media of one of the principal columns of the Escal auto-gronx and consequently must be treated with this consideration from all the groups of law-suits, if we really believe in the Euscalgron, and wish to respect its nature. We live in an open, wide, interconnected world. In this context, information and communications have not multiplied only throughout the world, but they move more and more rapidly. When we say communication, when we speak of communication, we must take the concept with a comprehensive meaning. We are not merely speaking of information, of what passes here or there, of what passes, but of culture and styles of life are to be considered within the concept. That is to say, when information and communication are given, there are other things within that task, which count things, days, and people, and how they are told, and how they are related from their cultured points of view. Therefore, in our opinion, it is essential to be conscious that when it is represented that the values of culture and the style of life are communicated, and that each culture in this vast world has its values, and that, of course, we must consider its will and will. For, ladies and gentlemen, culture and style of life have a direct economic influence on each country, or, in other words, cultural values and styles of life are either economic or political and social instruments. If that is the case, and we believe that it is, the United Nations established there by 1973, in its McBride report, that "every people has the right to have the appropriate means of communication that will enable them to learn about their own reality and the reality that surrounds them, without having to be condemned to receive such information solely and exclusively by means that are not their own". This means that in an increasingly globalised world, in the midst of a genuine revolution in information systems and technologies (digitalization, the Internet and all its derivatives), such as the new forms of consumption of audiovisual products, where the dominant cultural and idiomatic models (the Anglo-Saxon, the French-speaking, the Hispanic) are imposed by their economic and cultural power, that the Basques can dispose of our free choice of a multimedia communication group (television, radio and the Internet), which supports the Basque audiovisual industry, which is of a public nature, is of quality, strong and competitive, that promotes Basque culture and that is made by us, the Basques, in order to offer to us and the world the vision and interpretation that we, the Basques, make of our own reality and that of the rest of the world, because all this is basic not to be literally swept by stereotypes and external cultural and informational models. The question we can ask is, does the EIB team multimedia match this purpose in the last decades? Is he still filling up? We think the answer is yes. Aurreko arduradun batek zioen bezala: "A small country like Euskadi without EITB, without its own television, would have very serious difficulties in having a window open to the outside and becoming visible from a cultural, linguistic, economic, social or sporting point of view. Without EITB, we would be a virtually invisible country. The reasons for its creation remain in force." Eta arduradun ohi honek zera gaineratzen zuen: "A country with a desire to influence the world needs strong public communication groups. Emerging countries around the world are strengthening their public systems. In this sense, EITB plays a crucial role as a public service for industrial promotion, innovation and, ultimately, as an instrument for the construction of a country brand in an environment of the information society that we see. That's why" –bukatzen zuen – "we want to value our contribution of public service as public enterprises, and explain and defend our model explaining what characterizes us". We live in an open and democratic society, and of course EIB must show day by day that paper which is played by EIB, that he must win his credibility by day, and also his complicity with the society of the Basques. But there are few people who can doubt his social income and his need if they don't support other obscure interests. The functions of the people which EIB observes were taken into account when he set forth, and when the law of the legislature was admitted to him, 33 years ago. And therefore within this spirit we regulated the choice and functions of the direction of the EIB. Exidential selection, institutional selection. We were pioneers in that sense in a stately degree. I'm saying the institutional selection, what did you realize that the conditions we've chosen to appoint the Supreme Director of Eastern are more exercitable than that of the president? If that means something, and in that logic, we will not allow EIB's destabilization and not the public function of it to be doubted. We don't do it, we've never done it, and we'll never do it. I mentioned it in another discussion, and I repeat: critics are always necessary, but reasonable ones, and there are enough means and means to do so. But if we do a decent exercise, we must admit that our point of view is that of the political idegic team as well as that, on the other hand, it is the professional act of ACTIVE. We can't mix our desires, our wishes, and our particular points of view with professionalism, even less with fanaticism, vacationism, or political hypocrisy. EIB reflects reality, explains reality. We politicians are also the principal part of the relatation of actual reality, but it's not the fault of our weaknesses, it's the notary. Let's not blame EIB on our problems. Let us respect his independence and his professional cricket. One last issue that I think is important to underline: EITB is a multimedia group appreciated and well valued by Basque society, despite many of them. And it must be said, that the difficulty is that the community of EIB eascal is a very precious group of media. The Basques, the Basque citizens, do not question EITB, do not question its duration. EITB has completed these years with remarkable purpose as stated by the law of creation, which considers it to be a key instrument for the information and political participation of Basque citizens, as well as a fundamental means of cooperation with our own educational system and of promoting and disseminating Basque culture, bearing in mind the promotion and development of Basque culture. It is indisputable, ladies and gentlemen, that EITB, in order to obtain these ends, has been fully useful.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u7	Lovezen joan... URIBE-ETXEBARRIA APALATEGI jaunak: In my second speech I will give you an account of a whole series of data that I believe support everything I have just said, and specifically the last consideration in relation to what Basque society thinks about EITB...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u8	Eskerrik asko, Uribe-Etxebarria jauna... URIBE-ETXEBARRIA APPALATEGI jaunak:... That it has a much more remarkable view than that expressed by some parliamentary groups here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u9	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Passing over the uncorrectional teams, Mr. Unzalu is the representative of the Socialist Basque Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. We Socialists will protect the half-way correction that is to be presented to us. As we proposed last November, the end of this dispute is more than a demand of resignation or of office. The purpose is to suggest a person who is going to change the direction of EIB, to propose a certain person to a public service, which is the nature of EIB lost in this power. We could reproduce here the debate on the ERE, we could reproduce the debates on the mismanagement of human resources, or on the gradual loss of hearings, or on the policy of recruitment, or on the drift of content aimed at a part of the population exclusively. And without any doubt, we continue to criticise with particular emphasis the editorial line of EITB's media, a line that we consider to be fully identified with the nationalist government and with nationalism in general. And let no one be deceived: we continue to strongly criticise the lack of sensitivity to the victims of terrorism reflected in many of the actions and in many of the information and treatment of the victims of terrorism. We think these discussions are already made and I don't care what this Chamber says. But we will consider the substance of this matter over and over. Because the debate around EITB and the current management has been deliberately placed on a political level. It is in that section in which he appears in the various media, and it has been precisely the Nationalist Party that has been interested in bringing him to that level, doing, as he usually does, victimism and accusing the opposition of wanting to wear down the Government in that way. But the Socialists have been thinking about it for a long time. What has happened in recent months is merely a consequence of what we have repeatedly warned in this House and in the media. When we decided to endorse the Government's proposal for general direction, we did so with some considerations on the editorial line, but also on the need to address a reflection on Basque public television. We did so, inter alia, because the limitations of the current model had been cruelly demonstrated already in the previous mandate, when the economic crisis broke out with all its crudeness and the resources of the environment were reduced. New times were going on, and we felt that we needed to adapt to them. And that is why we expressly exclude that commitment to reflection in our electoral programme. This reflection is not the result of a last-minute event, but, as I say, the Socialist Party has already included in the electoral programme for the autonomous elections a deep reflection on the drift, on the future of Basque public television. However, the Director-General had decided to dispense with any agreement on which the very fact that she was a Director was based. That is why we communicated, and we said it publicly, that we felt disconnected from that agreement, and we announced that the Socialists would continue to work on the essential improvement of EITB in all areas. That is what we announced a year ago, that is what we have been reiterating throughout this year: a reflection on the model of Basque public television. It has not occurred to us yesterday, we have already said it on the same programme, and we have reiterated it, as I say, for a year now in all the debates that have been taking place in this House. We know that this is a complex matter, and that it has to have the broadest political, trade union and social consensus, but we cannot continue to make excuses. All citizens, all citizens of any political sensitivities must feel reflected in EITB, all and all must feel it as a public service, as a service of their own, as a fundamental element of our autonomy. We're already socializing our idea. We note that EITB has not carried out in its history a thorough and comprehensive review of its functioning; we have not done so either in this Parliament. And today it needs to be updated, this debate needs to be updated; this reflection needs to be started, this reflection on the future of EITB. Among other things, EITB needs its business and human resources structures to adapt to current demands, both technological and audiovisual consumption. He needs to expand audiences and look for the Basque public who rejects him. It needs to be a generator of quality products, which in addition to providing audience and prestige bring new revenue, because it exports products instead of being replicator of formats or manufacturer of hard-to-fit programs beyond the borders of Euskadi. It needs a professional leadership that overcomes the partisan conditionings and the majorities that can be given at every moment in this House; that is, under the control that requires the use of public funds and the service that must be provided to all citizens. In short, we need a modern 21st-century ITB that responds to the new Basque social reality, to the greater number of Basque speakers, that incorporates young people, that adapts to new forms of audiovisual consumption, that generates quality content, and that does so in collaboration with a Basque audiovisual industry that is now dispersed and that does not have enough potential. We want it to be an audiovisual factory of the 21st century, to provide a public service, and to do so with criteria of efficiency in the use of public money. For all this it is necessary to adapt its business structure, which has been expanding and dispersing in the inertia of expansion of channels and offers. To do this, you need to professionalize your management and improve your management control mechanisms. For this, it needs to adapt all human resources with training of workers and negotiation with their representatives, enhancing synergies and also multi-purposes. For that he needs to offer his workers development formulas for his professional career. And all this will require legal reforms and a lot of dialogue, but above all it will need to define the objective well, what is meant to be done by the EITB environment. Today we reiterate our mistrust in the current direction. We believe that it is not the right one to meet EITB's challenges, we believe that it is not responding to the challenges it has today, and that it also does not have the capacity to respond in the future. And we believe that the Government must understand that need for change. For the moment, removing the current address, and rethinking its contents, would be a good start today, to continue tomorrow with an integral review of this public service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u11	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Passing the answers round, Mrs. Llanos, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u12	Thank you again, Madam President. Well, when we brought this debate here... It is true that it is a debate that has already taken place, but it is true that when that debate was held, in which a very specific question was asked, the Government was then asked whether that proposal, that agreement that was taken here, was to be fulfilled, and directly the Government said no, that it was going to ignore the parliamentary majority, that it was going to ignore it. And that is why we have brought here and put on the table the need to fulfil, especially on matters as important as this, what the majority of this Parliament has said. What happens is that in order to enforce that, it is necessary to say why it is important, why it is important in this particular issue that the parliamentary mandate be fulfilled, and to explain this leads us back to the same debate that has taken place here. But there have been repeated debates in this House on many occasions. The same debate at the same session, I think, is not an entirely strange thing. Here we talk about the reality of the People's Party, and that if the reality that reflects ETB... Look, the reality that EITB reflects, we've said it many times, I think as a public medium... In some things I agree with you, in some things we agree: that we prefer to talk about the corruption of the outsiders, and the insiders are the happy Arcadia. We're the happy Arcadia. He never comes out. The decisions of the Basque Government are reports, the criticisms that the rest of the groups make of the Basque Government appear absolutely marginal. But in the treatment..., the other day, for example, in "without going further", talking about the debate of the state of the nation, the interventions of the nationalist deputy, the deputy of Amaiur, were completed, and the answer given by the president of the government was read in a postcard by the presenter! Is that equidistance? No, no, Not at all. And for reality the Sociometer should be taken into account, but it is that, when we ask for the appearance of the lady director of EITB in this House, she said that the Sociometer did not have to be taken into account at all. And in the Sociometer, in the top two positions, there is clearly unemployment and economic recovery; much lower is interest in the new status. Much lower. And that's what monographs are all about in the chain. Monographs. And reality is not the Euskadi of the seven territories, it is not that. They'd like to, but it's not. And Navarra is not Euskadi, no matter how much you try to appear on ETB as part of Euskadi. And the reality is not the Gara covers or the Deia covers, no, which are the ones that are usually used to make the programs, which is what is usually used. And, of course, although it has been understood that we are using the EITB director's request to cease as an instrument of political opposition, no! Because it would serve nothing to replace this direction and the new direction would remain in the same line. It wouldn't do any good. As – I agree with you – there is no point in abolishing the "Debate" programme if it is not taken into account that what is not to be done is to bring certain contertules, which defend certain positions that are contrary to what is laid down in the strategic plan, to certain programmes. For this reason, the solution is not only to replace the person in the leadership, nor to abolish a programme, but to assume that it is a public service at the service of the Basque citizens. Not a TV for the Basque people, as you say. But, of course, Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, of course, the Basque people are synonymous with a nationalist citizen. As a nationalist citizen. And, look, you don't know if you leave it for the end, but, of course, in your first speech I was surprised, because you didn't even defend the need for EITB management to follow. He has come to tell us how important it is for a people to have their own television. Man, for the nationalist people yes, because it tells a reality to the measure of the nationalist people. To the measure of the nationalist people. But it turns out that this public medium, which we do not doubt that it has to exist, is paid with the money of all Basques, nationalists and non-nationalists, and all, nationalists and non-nationalists, we have to see ourselves reflected on that television. And that's not happening right now. And if you're going to tell me later, that you're leaving it for the end, I'll get ahead of you: in hearings we're going to get worse, and in economic matters the zero deficit, you know why it is? Because there are government injections, because there is not enough publicity, there is no public resources, and there is no end to it. Injections are needed. Then the management of the current management is not supported from that point of view. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u13	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u14	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Uribe, your prepotency. Arrogance yours, Mr. Uribe. You say that there are no objective reasons to request your cessation. Well, it's the opinion of twenty-seven of seventy-five parliamentarians in this House. It's your opinion. It is the opinion of the Basque Nationalist group, which is in minority. It is his view, respectable but minority. The majority of this Parliament considers that there are objective reasons for calling for an end to it. It is their opinion, therefore, minority. You say that management has done a remarkable job. According to you, according to the Basque Nationalist group, according to the minority of this Parliament. The vast majority consider it to have been disastrous work, and that is why we call for their dismissal, no more or less. Pure democracy and play of majorities and minorities. I respect your opinion, but I say that in any case it is not the view of the vast majority of this House. Therefore, arrogance and prepotence yours. I don't think anyone here has disrespected you or the Basque Nationalist group. We have given data and given our opinion, and we have explained why we are calling for their cessation. He says there's no alternative. It is the government that has to present an alternative! What is clear is that this Director-General of EITB no longer has the support of this Parliament. She chose it at the time, but today she rejects it. No one intends to delete or delete EITB. No one. What we want is for it to be an entity at the service of the whole of Basque society, not an instrument at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party. We do not want it to be a fundamental pillar of self-government. We want you to serve citizens in general. This is the important thing, and what we claim. You say that EITB would be headless. Mr. Uribe, but what happened in 2008? What happened in 2008? "EITB will run out of Director General as of next Friday," I read a news release on January 9, 2008. Eye, because the CEO of EITB, Andoni Ortuzar, asks the board of directors to understand the situation: "As of Friday, the functions of the CEO will be divided into four senior positions. The Director General asked the board of directors to understand the situation that his march is going to create. EITB sources specify that management is guaranteed." This was in 2008. "The status of the entity will be comparable," he said, "to which it occurred when the former Director General, Iñaki Zarraoa, left office in 1999," they added. "EITB was then without a maximum president, and therefore could be so again," said Mr Ortuzar, CEO of EITB. Another fact that throws its arguments on the ground. Finally, Mr Uribe has told us that in his second speech he will tell us what Basque society thinks. This is what Mr Uribe said, and then the Basque parliamentarians in Parliament have to wait for Mr Uribe to bring us a survey to find out what Basque society thinks. This isn't arrogance, is it? Isn't Basque society represented here? Isn't she represented here? What's more, a survey or what this Parliament says? This Parliament has already called for the termination of the Director-General of EITB. Don't bring me a survey. This is real life, here citizenship is represented, and the vast majority calls for this person to be dismissed. Do not bring me, therefore, any survey. It therefore respects society, it respects Parliament. Don't bring us any surveys. I say the same to you, Mr Lehendakari: please respect Parliament and what this Parliament is saying, and what each of the groups is saying. Not only the final vote, but the arguments. There is a common coincidence, there is a coincidence: we think that EITB is at the service of its Government and the service of the Basque Nationalist Party. This is what we've been saying for months. Finally, I believe that the Basque Socialist Party owes us an explanation to this Parliament and to society as a whole regarding the election at the time of the current Director General of EITB, why you supported this Director General of EITB. You have to explain, what covenant there was, why and for what. Because you want to do a reflection now. And before? Didn't you have to think about that before? Wasn't he already on his political agenda, as you explained? Why was Mrs. Iturbe elected? What was behind it? Now we have to think about it. Think, therefore, now in relation to what you decided, because we are paying the consequences now. And now they want to do an integral reflection. Now. And before? What did you ask for in return for the vote in favour of Mrs Iturbe? Can you explain it to us? Society would appreciate it. For reasons of transparency, we want to know what the Basque Socialist Party asked the Basque Nationalist Party to vote in favour of Mrs Iturbe. That is also the remaining explanation. Mr Urkullu, you have again today faced the ertzainas who were manifesting at the door. Something's told them. Something's told them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u15	Hey, maniro, I want you to finish it, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u16	You're a sensitive person, you don't like to be told certain things. Well, be sensitive to the mandate of this Parliament, listen to this Parliament, respect this Parliament if you really are such a sensitive person.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u17	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Urruzuno, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u18	I've already expressed the lack of meaning in this discussion, and that's what we're keeping up. We thought we didn't have to come back to this subject today. However, we think it's pretty obvious that this statement is addressed a little to Mr. Uribe's estate at this moment to a certain special state of the EIB. What this Chamber expresses here is nothing but reflection. It is not a caprice to deprive the other of the position of the rival, a caprice which has an opposition. You said "gestion notable." We believe at the moment that "gestion notable" is without ground, that it is not based on real facts. We believe that the problem derived from the Eus Radio is not only the Eus Radio, personal and hiring, but that it affects a disastrous policy that has been carried away for years. And even the last sensations say that, as there were at the time 120 men who had to be infinitely fixed, a few months ago must be made more than twenty. That's something that's answering. We believe that in EIB's outward projection, programming, his attachment to the citizen is not to be named as "gestion Notable" at the moment. So what I'm trying to say is that we're in a special situation. Let's assume as an inflexiation point, so we all have to go ahead and give you a change of direction. It takes a lot of thought, it takes a lot of sectors to solve it. Let's play it that way. As for today, as I said at the beginning, only tell us that this discussion is superfluous for us, so far as the ball is on the government roof. It belongs to the government to act according to what this Chamber said, and we believe that today's point was looking for something else. I won't go in on what it is or why it was. But that's our humble opinion. Therefore we proceed with our corrections, and in our correction we receive two characters. First, we are confirmed in the resolution or resolution of February 5th. We believe that either this or the 5th of February has to be carried out and that the government has to do it. And on the other hand, we want to make use of that part of political responsibilities, and that's how we get it in our correction. On the one hand, to change certain habits or duties which have been given in internal management or character policy, and, as I have said in the first round, in informative content, in informative treatment, to transfer changes to the editorial line. So that's our commitment. Let's take advantage of this poor situation EIB's situation at the moment, so that we all can change the course of the group. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u19	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Mr. Uribe Housevary, the Eubertarian, representing the team. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you. Mr Maneiro, I would like to insist that, by a lot of disrespectful, arrogant and disqualifying language, which you usually use with everyone and with everything, Basque society, as I will then reflect on you, appreciates EITB and loves EITB. I'm surprised Mrs. Llanos is talking to me about the zero deficit. I imagine you've gotten a little nervous – it's not usual in you – and you've lost your language a little bit. I don't take this into account, because if what you're telling me is that EITB has to have revenue only and exclusively through advertising, and through revenue so that it can rent as far as its facilities, etc., I guess not, right? But the concept of zero deficit usually uses it badly. And, well, another time, or out of here, we'll try to explain to you, as the Director General did, what that is about the zero deficit, but you use it badly. And I suppose those positions, let's say, do not have the hidden intention of a supposed privatization of all public television, something that has been talked about a lot about the People's Party and its position in the whole state, and we have examples. But, as you say, I'm not going in. What surprises me about the Socialist Party too is that they have the rare weakness of considering EITB always at the edge of the abyss when they are in opposition. Always. Because you have been in the government, you were in coalition with us, and then later, the last legislature, in the previous legislature, you have been ruling alone (with the support of the People's Party, of course, which evades any responsibility), you have been ruling the Basque Government and also the EITB itself. I believe that, frankly, with all this campaign that has been going on for a year, or a year and a few months, they are falling into genuine institutional irresponsibility, because I believe they are using or intend to use EITB as a scapegoat for their own problems. And I repeat to you once again that the only thing that EITB does is reflect reality. EITB is not guilty of any problems you or us, or any other political, social or economic group in this society and in this world. They're notaries of the present. And the EPC, the public call for employment, which is so critical of you, Mrs Mendia, say that you tried to reach an agreement when you were in the government. According to trade union sources, they proposed to take out fewer of the 49 posts that have now been taken out. And, by the way, without any compromise in favor of the Basque. Less fixed posts than those that have been drawn in this public employment call. Less than 49. Less. So, with what moral authority do you now criticize the public call for employment that has just ended, which has raised more fixed posts than you, and with natural and logical demands in relation to the Basque country? Were they planning, when they were in charge, some kind of structural staffing study? You recognize that you did not reach an agreement because the union side was not for the work, depending on the proposal you made, and someone could say "No wonder". But if that was the case, Mrs. Mendia, why do you not acknowledge that some agreement has now been reached with the trade union party? And yet they criticize that in a furious way. How do you want me to qualify that position? Incoherent, hypocritical, opportunistic...? Well, I think so. That's where he's going. They talk about "abism" in relation to the hearings, but, let's see, meeting the 2014 targets by 13%, being in 2013 a 13.1 how would you qualify, when you were in government, in 2010, a 12.1 and in 2011 a 11.3? Abism no; it would, I don't know, be the Falls of Niagara or something like that. Please, a little measure, a little ratio! And since I'm running out of time, as I promised, actually... Don't worry, Mr. Maneiro, without overestimating you with excessive data, that you will consider unbelievable, but indeed Basque society can affirm with roundness that it appreciates (appreciates, appreciates) EITB, and takes it in very high consideration. It is the first communication group in Euskadi, has achieved quality European and international recognition in management. That critical management has been recognised at European and international level, and that also included staff management. Basque citizenship values the social prestige of EITB with a 7.2 out of 10. If we ask you what a means of social prestige means, almost 30% says that it is a means of communication that is true and credible, 14% thinks that impartiality must prevail...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u20	Lovezen joan, Uribe-etxebarria jauna. URIBE-ETXEBARRIA APALATEGI jaunak: Bai, oraintxe... and objectivity, and the rest set attributes such as clarity, understanding and plurality. Information services get a 7.4 out of 10, and news and opinion programs get close to 7. Don't forget that EITB is the first communication group and ETB is a leader in news, something that didn't happen before. And that is citizenship, which chooses freely in the face of a multiple offer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u21	Eskerrik asko, Uribe-Etxebarria jauna... URIBE-ETXEBARRIA APALATEGI jaunak: Leaders. Appreciated. Respect her, respect her professionalism.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u22	Finally, the Basque Socialists represent the team, Mr. Unzalus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u23	Well, ladies and gentlemen, last February 5 in this Parliament we managed to place on the roof of the government a ball on a problem that the vast majority, two thirds of this House, considered necessary and urgent to solve. Today, I do not know whether I have repeated this debate with an incorrect strategy, or because others are going to back off on 5 February, we are going to rescue that ball to the government and we are going to transfer it to this Parliament. It would seem to us socialists to be a very serious mistake, and it would be the absolute responsibility of those who have put things forward with exclusively partisan strategies and not with a strategy of improving the service and of improving the management of EITB; not with the strategy of enforcing the mandate of this House, but with the strategy of having some particular revenue. We would consider it a mistake for this House, I insist, not to keep on the roof of the Government this matter on which we have to decide, that the Government is solely responsible for the fulfilment of the mandate, for the fulfilment of what was decided here on 5 February. Mr Urruzuno, you have reiterated here that you reaffirm what was adopted on day 5. I have the translation (and I think it will be correct, because, if not, you would have already made the corresponding exception), and what you say in your amendment to the whole is that the resolution adopted by this plenary on 5 February in connection with the employment regulation dossier is being complied with. I do not know whether you agree with this, and also the other important section that was in the resolution of 5 February, which was the director's resignation. In any case, we will continue to bet and we will continue to assert ourselves in what we said on February 5, the cessation of the director of EITB. Mr Lehendakari, look, I would ask you not to allow spokespersons from the group that supports your Government to hold arrogant speeches, speeches that, by virtue of which they consider, have decided that EITB's leadership does well, must remain the same. I would ask you not to allow spokespersons from the group that supports your Government to make use of the third part of this Parliament to conclude that the opinion of the rest of the groups in this House is useless. I would ask you, Mr Lehendakari, not to allow me to give you any kind of complacent speech. I ask you not to allow complacent speeches by spokesmen of the group that supports this Government, complacent with a management, but which has to be contrasted in this House, which has to be discussed in this House. The group supporting him is making an absolutely arrogant and absolutely complacent speech, which we believe is absolutely not conducive to his management, to his management as a lehendakari, and to that of his Government. We, Mr Lehendakari, ask the government to comply with what this Parliament adopted on 5 February. That in the first place. Secondly, we ask you to take into account the debate that we have proposed here today. That debate of deep reflection, that debate on the future of EITB, that you take it into account, that you take it into account and that you value it, because we believe that this is the formula that will allow EITB to remain a public medium at the service of all Basque citizens. Mr Lehendakari, put forward this debate which we propose to you, and let us work on it, on the solution of the Basque public media. And I would also ask you, Mr Lehendakari, to recommend to the management of EITB that it not hide this debate, that it not censor it, as you did yesterday in the Teleberri of the second edition, of the afternoon, where it was absolutely obvious this debate that the Socialists had raised and that we believe it is necessary, and from which can come the solution to an important problem that we have on the public media of Basque television. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u24	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the half-correction signed by Euskal Populars and UPyD. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u25	Because it's the market, we'll vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u26	Because it's the market, we'll drop it for the nextpleno. When you put it on, we'll discuss the first point. First point in theme list: "The bill of law made by the Populous People of Euscal Act, to aid their families in changing the 13/2008 law of December 12th. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we're going to argue without reading it. On the side shift, besides Mrs. Quiroga... ?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Very good morning, and thank you to the House for making it possible to change the agenda. The proposal for a law put forward by the People's Group originates from the announcement that we met last August by which the Basque Government transmitted the news that the aid for the reconciliation of family and work life had been exhausted in that month of February, and that, therefore, all those applications that arose from that date would not count on the aid for the reconciliation of family and work life. In that month of August, we were able to see how one of the aids included in that package of aid under the Family Support Act was not going to have sufficient resources to ensure that all applications submitted or submitted to the Basque Government could be met throughout that year. We are talking about aid, aid for the reconciliation of family and working life, which plays a dual role. On the one hand, those who have children or older persons in their care can benefit from a reduction in working hours or can have other people who can help them and for this they can have benefits for their recruitment. As I say, on the one hand they can carry this out, and on the other hand, and since most of the people who receive this aid are women, we are also talking about equality. We are also talking about equal opportunities for women, for those women who have a working life who want to be compatible with their motherhood, who can do so with the help and also with the impetus of the institutions. That is to say, that dual objective which met the aid that we unanimously adopted in this Parliament in 2008 in the Family Support Act. As I say, in that month of August we knew that the amount entered in the budgets was only until February. At that time our group asked the Government what had happened; because we already knew what had happened in 2014, but we wanted to know what had happened in 2013. The Government's response was that in 2013 there were 11,000 unanswered applications; in 2014, 16,000, almost 17,000 unanswered applications. And recently, the same day that the government announced a new cut in aid, this time for children, the same advisor announces that aid for the reconciliation of family and working life will not reach beyond the month of April. The situation therefore continues in this same trend, that is, the trend of the cut-off, because what is clear is that the Government is not earmarking sufficient budgets, sufficient amounts to meet a demand that, year after year, is not being able to meet. At this point, the People's Group, beyond criticism, clearly criticises this government... Because what this government is showing, not putting enough budgets in place, is that it is not addressing one of the structural problems facing the Basque Country, one of the challenges we face in the Basque Country, as the successive demographic studies we are experiencing are showing. These studies give us a picture for the year 2025 (i.e. around the corner) in which they tell us that 25% of that society, in the year 2025, will be over sixty-five years old. That's going to be a reality if we don't change the trend. And in that scenario we will have to consider how we are going to maintain the welfare state, how we are going to maintain the structures that have been achieved gradually and with great effort, and the quality of life we enjoy in the Basque Country. That is going to be a reality that is around the corner, as I say, ten years ago seen, and it is necessary to rethink as one of the priorities to turn those figures around, those scenarios that are coming to us. We believe that the Family Support Act, the measures that are collected there from support (aid not only by birth, but also to the reconciliation of family and work life), are a useful tool, they are proving to be a useful tool, without which probably the birth data that we now have would be much worse, because what we are making possible with this is that those couples who are posing as having a child may have it. This is a reality that we face every day, and what we have to do, beyond the ideological approaches that we can do or the approaches with each one can approach this issue, I think that as we have to think about it is a country key: what society we want to build, what society we want to have in that year 2025, which, as I say to you, is around the corner. And the Family Support Act itself says that such aid must not go backwards, must not suffer the setback that they are suffering in recent years, but must have the objective of such convergence with Europe, that Europe 2020, which must be Euskadi's objective. I think it's an irrevocable goal, and much more for Basque society. That is why we in the Group of the European People's Party are wondering what solution we can find to ensure that such aid for the reconciliation of family and working life is not at the mercy of the decisions of the Basque Government. That we saw clearly how they are not a priority for the Government, because in a situation of budget insufficiency, that is, of budget deficit, where they start to cut is because of family aid. We believe that this is a serious mistake, and we believe that it highlights the priorities of this Government. And we see how we are announced that child support is also going to be reduced, we also see how this issue of the reconciliation of family and work life is reduced year after year... And so, in a spirit of wanting to contribute to a solution, we believed that there was a formula, which is also contained in the Family Support Act itself. Birth aid is a subjective right. That way they're armored. It means that the Basque Government has an obligation to comply with all requests made during that year. Aid for the reconciliation of family and working life is not such a subjective right. And this is what the People's Group proposes in the amendment of the law: that these aids for the reconciliation of family and work life also have the character of subjective law. Because, look, this Government could indeed, without this change, have responded to these requests, to these requests for aid. Because one thing we do not know is that the credit for such aid is expandable; that is, this government could now take the decision to extend that credit and therefore take care of all such aid. But it's not done. And it is not by a decision, by the will of this Government not to cut back on other sides, not to pay attention to such aid by cutting back on those sides, but simply to tell those 16,000 women to wait for the next year, that then we will see if they can be helped. And in the meantime, what we have to think about is those women, mainly women, who have already decided, who have already spoken in their jobs and agreed to a reduction in their hours thinking that they are going to have that help from the Government, and who do not have it, they are not going to have it. Or those people who also have older ones in charge, who are going to count on help and who are currently told that they are not going to have it. I think that is what a government has to take into account, those people who are going to have to make decisions because this government has decided that there will be no such aid, because the decision is to close the blind in April. That is why I appeal to this House, to the parliamentary groups, that, beyond ideological approaches, we share the need that, if there is a series of aid, if this House decided in 2008 to provide us with a law with a series of aid, that we maintain that aid; that we make that amendment so that such aid also has that subjective right, and that we guarantee the safety of all those women, mainly women, who want to receive this aid, plan their working lives on the basis of that aid, and that we allow them to do so. Because I really think that's the best way to contribute to women's equal opportunities. Probably this weekend, which is celebrated on March 8, each and every one of the parties will make great speeches in pursuit of equality, equal opportunities for women... But then, at the time of truth, these women will find that, when they need the help of the Administration, or they can apply for such help, they find that the blind is closed and that these demands are not met. That is why we believe that this amendment, which is a very simple amendment, which would include a new article in the Family Law, could help to generate the certainty that all women who seek such assistance will have a positive response from the Administration, because they are not going to be excused that there is no money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u29	Yes, thank you very much. Yes, we are going to vote that yes, we are going to vote in favour of taking account of this proposal brought to us by the People's Party, because we believe that aid for the reconciliation of working and family life should be a subjective right, and that therefore it does not depend on budgetary conjunctures or restrictive political, economic or budgetary decisions. The Family Support Act itself in its explanatory statement highlights the importance of the family and reflects the socializing and personal fulfilment role of the family, among many other functions. In our view, there is a need for a rethinking of support aimed at supporting families, evolving from a mere care model to a model based on subjective law, with rights-guaranteed and proactive policies. It is therefore necessary to ensure that aid facilitates both the initial creation of a family and the increase of its members, the equality between them and the development of their life plan, both individually and collectively, as well as, in particular, co-responsibility and conciliation. It is almost impossible to provide these guarantees when aid is mostly subject to budgetary availability. A political commitment is therefore needed, and there is a real will to defend and promote the aspects on which conciliation aid is concerned. And, of course, demographic evolution demands it. While it is true that economic benefits alone will not respond to the problems we face, and that it is necessary to promote a multitude of public policies, it is also true that the consideration of conciliation aid as a subjective right is an essential step in moving towards the desired model, in which working and family and personal life do not become incompatible, but complementary, thus guaranteeing both equality and the right to work, the right to care, or the right to reconciliation of work, personal and family life itself. For all this, we are going to vote in favour of the consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u30	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. On the other hand, who wants to participate... ? Nobody... Then we'll go to the vote. The debate is ended, whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the conferences are 74; the votes given, 75; the supporters are 11. The opposites are 28; white, 0; December, 36.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u31	So he didn't consider it. It's going to be an explanation next. First of all, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Mountain, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u32	Thank you. Socialists defend the subjective right to conciliation, and the institutions must guarantee it with public and political services that make it possible. But what brought us here today is not that. What is brought to us is an aidist proposal, not a proposal to guarantee rights. A popular party wants support for everyone, yes, rights for all of us not, and socialists, we all want the right to unite a job and a family. And what we Socialists propose is that the law guarantees us all to take care of our families, without penalizing our professional career for it. To that end, the institutions must remedy, and they must promote conciliation measures and also legal measures in the field of work, Mrs Quiroga. And that is exactly the opposite of what you have brought to this House today, and it is just the opposite of what the Labour Reform of the People's Party promotes. And what is needed is that when there is aid, the Government puts them in the hands of the applicants when they are needed, and not ten months later. That is what must be done by a government as well. We will all have to reconcile in our lives at some point, either with our children or with our elders, to care for our children... That is why laws are necessary, and social services are necessary to enable such reconciliation. This is not done with aid alone: it is arranged with public policies, with schools with flexible hours, not cutting, with the Unit Law developing it and not stopping it, with labour legislation – as I said before – that allows working and caring for family members at the same time... And also with aid which, once granted and recognised, is granted and not delayed for months and months, as your Government, Mr Urkullu, is doing. The Socialists have been the great defenders of the social state and of social rights, pensions, health and education, here in Euskadi and Spain. And now it is time to lay the foundations of the pillar of the welfare state, that of social protection, with social and political services that guarantee the right to family reconciliation, to care for the elderly and the little ones. And aid is necessary, but we must now face the challenge of the ageing of our society, and encourage that parents who have children who want and care for their families without fear of losing their jobs or well-being be treated from public services. Today, efforts must focus more on those who have suffered the most from the effects of the policies of the People's Party. In the unemployed, they do not have to choose to take care of their children or go to training to find a job. In workers, who have seen their wages cut, or in single-parent families, who are actually suffering more from the effects of the crisis and who are mostly women. And in young people, who do not have to wait forever to exercise their right to motherhood or paternity. The aid must ensure such reconciliation in these circumstances. And for that we Socialists also have a proposal here in Euskadi, which is the creation of a social cohesion fund, a fund which the Lehendakari signed with the Socialist Party. The president was engaged to this tree, but we haven't heard from him yet. This disposition presupposes investing all the citizens and all the rights of the community now. The preservation of children or masters is not only a matter of economy, but the association of the community affects the equality of men and women in our personal and professional development, and a public system of society must attend to this, of those which produce an added value. This investment presupposes more human rights and more riches, increases the revenues, and acquires more cocots in the Social Security. And that's the Socialists' bet. The People's Party, which is responsible for labour reform in Spain, which affects us here in Euskadi, which impoverishes workers, which complicates conciliation, is today raising the question of assistanceism. We put our goal in universalization. We hope that this reflection, which the Basque Government has also opened on this issue, will not be based solely on economic criteria, but rather on criteria of extension and guarantee of rights. Let us hope that you will take up your own commitment and start laying the foundations to guarantee that right, because we are already late. We ask from this rostrum that no further delay be made in the aid that people ask for for conciliation. We abstained because our model is not that of the People's Party, clearly; because the proposal brought here today by the People's Party does not even take it, because if it were taken over by the competent Minister responsible for the sector, it would have been extended to all Spaniards, and has not done so, and because those who ask for more controls for other aid do not even put any but to these aids, to the control of these aids, and because it is a proposal that serves alone and proposes it only to cover the consequences of three years of cuts by the Government of Mariano Rajoy. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Arrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u34	Good morning, everyone. I shall attempt to express and reason the causes of our abstinence, and our point of view to the subject. As has been said in 2014, the payment was interrupted, and thousands of requests remained unfinished, and thousands of people and families were exposed to it. The funk knew it was gonna happen, and that's what we call irresponsible. At this juncture, we requested him to fulfil all his demands, which the parliament required, but did not do, and thousands of injured persons have come to an end. He left 70% of the demands in 2014, a big and planned reduction that thousands of people have suffered. This panomama has also been mentioned in the year 2015. The Chief Department has just said that with the expected money it only comes to fulfill the demand in April until April. And we knew that too, you knew. We said it and he's playing irresponsible again in this crazy business. And in this context, Popula proposes to change the law, making these aids subjectively. We thought this, too, very strange. In the places where the popular party commands, for instance in the State, the politics which it represents are far from the proposition it now proposes, in the Antipodes. If a man is destroying the Common-wealth of Goods, he is the Popular Party; if any one is destroying public services, he is the Popular Party; if any one is rejecting the rights of women, he is the Popular Party. In other matters, for instance, we may say that you have protected all the restrictions, and when you see what you are saying and how you say, when you seek to bury the dignity of people for good votes, we suspect that there is no great honesty in the pursuit of the proposition. Perhaps there are other interests in this case too. But on the other hand, we'd like to make it clear that we don't agree with the reasons that are in the opinion they have been given to the bill. We don't share them. We don't agree that when we say that it's a matter of economic condition that the budget can't be increased nowadays or that the expense of budget is to be arranged and discussed in the social level of conversation that is born of one's own race. No, it's not the way, not at all, from our point of view. In this year's 15th of October, you asked for something else to please you. It is precisely to penetrate into measurements, to develop them, and to disseminate the course-pages to reach the level of the public politics of Europe. And that's the way it's all the way up till tonight that's not going to work. To do so, it is essential to consider the present situation. Among those who ask for a reduced settlement or work, there are more than 95% women. On the one hand, hegemonic social rules impose on women the work of their households and the chief care of their care. On the other hand, the lower pay of women is their intervention, the reduction of their dependence or their activities. Survey is still in women, and it helps these policies from the point of view of equality they have not succeeded in having a step forward. Besides, those who have least income are less used by these measures of association. From our point of view, to perpetuate this situation is no good. That's why, with other reasons, we haven't voted for it. We think we ought to make deep changes in the way that was admitted here as I have just mentioned. The work world needs to be modified, the corporations or the administration. It is necessary to look at the finest in Europe, and watch over the public, which is so important, that it cannot be a subject to repair in private quarters. And, of course, public services need to be strengthened, we need them to be strong. And this is one of the main keys to conduct your status. Most of the time, they're in the women's hands and they're the caretakers. Most of the time, they don't have a chance to choose, and often they have to abandon their professional careers and their wishes. We have also here today seen this subject of which we are discussing. We're women in this legislation too. What we're talking about is this. Yes, we think it's time for us to end this situation, but while we're asking you to do it, we'll demand you to give help to all the people who ask, and put the money you need on the table, without forgetting that, political associations, as we said, must take another course in politics. And we want him to make an commitment to get there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u36	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Familiare to change the 13/2008 Act of December 12 to aid families in the case of the popular party, Eunerative Ascorator, has given a negative vote for reasons I shall attempt to explain later on. It is clear that the Euskadin rate is very low, and that to turn it around we must do something, too, as I believe, that we share all the groups. As the Propositionor calls it, the assistance of families, whose children are under his care, are regulated as subjective rights by the law, and by the measures of the union of one's life, family, and labour, on the contrary, of a subordinate character. The activity of the Populative party wishes to change the legal character of these confederate aids, that they may pass from the underlying nature to the subjective right. Does he really think that the proposed team will be able to solve the low-rate birth rate of Euscadin? We don't think so. Economic assistance to families, either by birth or for reconciliation, is merely a complement to birth policies. These aids are not so decisive when deciding to have more children; the planning and development of the family project itself are determined by many more factors: cultural, support from the family and community environment, related to housing, economic, labor... In our view, changing the legal nature of conciliation aid, from its subsidizing nature to subjective law, will not change the low birth rate in the Basque Country. For this reason, the Basque Government is engaged in a process of reflection to assess the extent to which the aid to the family and to conciliation, however subjective the former may be, is effective in promoting birth, and, as has been announced on several occasions, the conclusions of this broad reflection will conclude with the elaboration of a Basque strategy for birth and support for families. From what has been described in various days and courses, it is clear that it is the second son or daughter where economic efforts must be focused. The surveys indicate that there are families who would be willing to have a second child, but that the economic and socio-occupational environment discourage them from doing so, so it seems more reasonable to review the resources and services currently provided to guide them where they may be more effective or necessary. Of course, in our opinion, on the lowest incomes. Whether or not there are subjective rights to conciliation aid offers neither greater effectiveness nor greater justice. We cannot and should not be short-term, in our opinion. We have to act in isolation by implementing effective measures that produce the desired effects in the medium or long term. So today's initiative, we think, is just a joke. Only the one who's looking for a banner. As I have said, the aid of the subjective character of association will not be solved simply by the low-rate Euscaia birth rate. On the other hand, the company around the family in the Euskata has no peers in the state scale. There are no other autonomous communities which equal our family protection systems. The Basque Society is making a great effort to gain the protection of the community which enables the system of protection, and to follow the cohesion of society, we must say that there are many persons who, in spite of their desire, cannot procure the measures of consistency for different reasons. Hence, as there is no equality in the access to measurement, we find it more suitable to follow it as a subsidy rather than as a subjective right. In conclusion, let us leave the Government to work and bring it back as soon as possible to increase the rate of birth and to assist the families, before the Euscal strategy begins with the changes of the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal made by the Socialists by the law of Parliament, concerning the adaptation of a decree for the assistance of social commotions. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the contract group, Mrs. Sarasa, the Basque Socialist, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u38	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Group brings to the debate the adequacy of the decree regulating social emergency aid in order to respond to those people who, having justified the need, are being left out by the situations that this long and unexpected economic crisis has uncovered. It was my group's wish to have discussed today, and urgently, the allocation of the budget line that the Socialists have included in the budgets to deal with cases of energy poverty, which are not being covered by social emergency aid, so that this could be articulated by agreement with social organisations. We thought that urgency was justified because we lived months of cold winter, and it is precisely now that people need the help provided in budgets to be able to cope with energy bills. But neither the Basque Nationalist Party, nor the People's Party, nor EH Bildu have understood that discussing how to articulate aid for people who cannot pay their bills for electricity and water is urgent. He said that the economic crisis has brought us to Euskadi a new reality and new situations of necessity. This is not what we say; it is said by the numerous studies we have been familiar with in recent months: the study carried out by the CIS on behalf of the Department of Employment and Social Policy to deepen the management of social emergency aid in May 2014; the survey of poverty and inequalities, also carried out in 2014 and presented by the Aburto Councillor in this Parliament on 6 November; the seventh FOESSA report on social exclusion and development in the Basque Country, and the reports of the social organizations themselves. Of these, there is a significant increase in situations of lack of well-being and risk of poverty. The data speak for themselves. By the end of 2014 in Euskadi almost 500,000 people suffered from lack of well-being (yes, 22.7% of the Basque population), and 177,000 people are at risk of poverty. The Basque Autonomous Community currently has an unemployment rate of 16.2%, and new recruitments are becoming precarious, worryingly increasing both temporality and partiality. The situation of those who are unemployed is alarming: 55.3% of people do not receive any benefits. It is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that it is more difficult to arrive at the end of the month, to meet the costs of basic necessities and those associated with housing, such as the receipts of light and gas. Our social protection system, which has been in operation for more than 25 years, has partly dampened the effects of the economic crisis. Even so, the above-mentioned studies show that more than 138,000 households are affected by social exclusion processes, and of these, 46,000 are severely excluded. Although money is not itself a guarantee of social integration, it does reduce the intensity of exclusion problems. The truth is that precarious work involves discontinuous contracts, with lower wages. The crisis increasingly demonstrates the scarcity and absence of income from employment income in many Basque households. Most of these households are single-personal or nuclear with children, and I would like to point out that the greatest social vulnerability is suffered by households with minors, or at least some unemployed members. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not be denied that at the current juncture it seems important for us to be concerned about how many people are in a situation of vulnerability and exclusion, and how they are trying to resolve their situation by helping Lanbide and the basic social services of the municipalities. In Euskadi it is clear that the network of institutional solidarity, the family and that of social organizations has alleviated the effects of this long and unexpected crisis. However, over the past two years, the number of households that do not have economic assistance at the time of need has increased, and it is already three out of ten households that are in need that do not have economic assistance. These data must lead us to reflection and political debate in order to reach a consensus on the adjustments that a Basque social protection system needs, and not on the path of dissent and artificial and interested polemics about social aid, which in a planned way are arbitrated under spurious electoral interests that lead only to facing one citizen with another. This Parliament must stop those clashes and not allow itself to be dragged away by electoral interests. This Parliament must recognise that there is a pressing problem: 500,000 people suffer from a lack of well-being (22.7% of the Basque population) and 170,000 are at risk of poverty (8.2%) in a society which, in theory, has powerful tools to deal with it. We are talking about people with serious difficulties in reaching the end of the month or meeting urgent needs due to the progressive precariousness of working conditions and wages, and we are talking about people who have been unemployed too long and who have exhausted their unemployment benefit. Socialists have taken note of the reported data and are basically shared by all social organizations and institutions. Therefore, in the face of the exclusionary approaches, the Socialists remain committed to ensuring that no one who needs it is left without the solidarity of all. Therefore, we request that the Basque Government reform Decree 4/2011, because this action is an act of government, depends on its will, and today the decree of the ESAs is showing its limitations. This decree in 2011 should have prevented fraud in the use of these aids, and therefore imposed property standards to access these subsidies. Time has shown that these limits leave the door open to exclusion, because a shared heritage in a building, a garden in a village, a long one that has not just been sold, are restricting access to the system to people with real emergencies and who have no liquidity, people who have assets that they cannot sell and who have no money to face the costs of basic necessities and the costs of housing. That is why we propose that this decree should turn from the criterion of ownership to the criterion of liquidity, of course with all the caution the Government considers to prevent anyone from taking advantage of this effort. The PNV spoke in its amendment of making a study, but the studies have already been done by the Government. The Government itself brought to this Parliament four months ago the latest survey of poverty and inequalities, and the data are conclusive. The data are also reflected in the reports of the social organizations themselves. And needs can't wait, they can't expand any longer. I conclude by showing the Socialist Group's gratitude to the amending groups, by understanding the spirit of the initiative, for the cordiality in the previous talks and for the consensus reached on the signing of a compromise text which, first of all, instructs the Basque Government to amend Decree 4/2011, in order to allow access to social emergency aid for people who do not have the liquidity to meet those specific costs which foresee and involve situations of social exclusion, as well as new situations of uncovered poverty. We urge the Basque Government to take the necessary steps to amend it throughout 2015, taking into account its own reports and those of social organizations, which highlight these new realities and unmet needs leading to poverty and social exclusion. The second point also refers to the amendments to this decree before it is adopted in Parliament, before the Committee on Employment and Social Policy. We also encourage the non-amendment groups to join in the adoption of this initiative and we can reach unanimity in this Parliament to address these people's needs in the face of the so complicated situations they are facing. For our part, nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. Passing to the turn of the leadership, Mrs. Blanco, representative of the EH Collector, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u40	Thank you, chief, chief of departments, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Today we begin from the end, we say that we have obtained a good deal, at least a new arrangement for us, because EAJ has signed for the assistance of social accidents in this legislation. For us, as we have said, a new state of things, but it has doubtless been no longer possible for the past two years. We must state that, when we made a correction between the three teams, it was easy for us to agree with the middle-class text. Why do we say it's a good deal? Because the government, thanks to this agreement, will have to amend Decree 4/2011, the decree, as you all know, regulator of the ESAs, to care for people who today stay out of the system and do not receive these aids. It is an extension of rights, it is about reaching out to more people, dealing with new situations of poverty, and taking into account those who today, because of the capital limit, despite having no liquidity, do not receive social emergency aid. He's calling on the street, asking us to consider their dire situation. We're reading government reports every day, incests, reports of different human institutions, for instance, and the consequences are there, we know them. The social fracture is becoming more and more visible, the people are suffering from a worse and worse situation, and more and more people remain without reaching the limit of dignity. This week, right here, we've had a chance to get more opinions on the committee. Félix Arrieta and Iñigo Calvo, economic teachers, have warned us that of the 170,000 unemployed in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, 104,000 (i.e. 64%) are already long-term unemployed. They warned us of the real risk of chronisation of unemployment, and of the possibility of solidifying structured unemployment. We were told that from long-term unemployment to social exclusion there is one step. And these were just examples. We can talk for a long time about the new state of poverty, and those who do not receive aid in social distress. Sometimes because the line of money does not reach, sometimes because it does not approach the municipal services, because they do not conform to the conditions of the decree, who knows. Today there are people, families who need social emergency assistance and do not receive them, because, despite not having enough money to cover their basic needs, despite not having cash to pay the mortgage fee or to pay the bill for light, they may have assets that they cannot sell, for example, and therefore exceed the limit set. Thanks to the agreement that we signed today, the Government, the department of Councillor Toña, we believe that it has a great challenge: from today it will be up to you to analyze all those cases, all those situations and many more, to remedy them; to amend the decree, and to come to this Parliament to submit all those amendments before its adoption in 2015. A modification of decree that will, among other things, imply, we understand, a budgetary increase for the year 2016, because if situations not covered so far are to be alleviated, the budget line will undoubtedly have to be increased significantly. Expanding rights, reaching out to more people, and alleviating unjust situations, that's what we're left with. One step forward, but it's not the only one we need. We should say it's the first step, because we have to admit that in the profession, in the house, in the country of industry, in society, we have to make strong strides. What we have put the three amending groups on the table today is not a solution that is neither to throw rockets, as we generally and commonly say. It is not a measure that solves everything, because there is still much to be improved in other areas of action, and we could give some examples, such as the situations that are currently being seen in precarious employment, work and family reconciliation, housing and social inclusion, the functioning of Lanbide, or how doubly vulnerable women are in all these cases. We need to talk again about the feminization of poverty, because women do not work in and out of the home like men, nor do we get a job under the same conditions as men, and we also get into work much later than men. But that's another fight. On the other hand, we must assume that we have abandoned the first point of our correction. On this point we always demanded, no doubt, an important request to make sure that any requests received in the councils could be satisfied with the government. As you have pointed out, it does not appear in the middle, but this time we have preferred to leave it aside, if the decree changes, and the protection of the rights increases. We are already getting to know each other, and surely you suspect that we will ask again, we will again ask the Government to allow the budget line sufficient to cover all the demand for ESAs, so that this burden does not fall on the municipalities. We will do so through a non-law proposition. We are not going to give up on this, because the forecasts already indicate that again this year the government's allocation for ESAs will be insufficient, and again it will be the municipalities that will have to re-use their resources to meet those people, those families that need it, in most cases to pay something as fundamental as housing maintenance costs. In 2013 the municipalities contributed 5.5 million euros to cover the demands of the ESAs; in 2014 the municipalities put 10 million euros out of their pocket, when the Basque government increased the game by 9 %. A total of 47,000 applications were processed that met 27,800 Basque families, thanks in part to the efforts of the municipalities. Previews won't be good, they'll get more demands, so they'll need more money. And in the meantime, the chief physician reminds us that the decree itself has the opportunity of diminishing the councils. If it decreases, less coverage, each council will divide them according to its own discretion. There's another example, here's another injustice. But as we have made it clear, we have left it for another, and will soon discuss it. To conclude, and, as we have said at first, it has not been difficult for us to obtain this agreement, since from the very beginning each spokesman has made clear what our boundaries are when we go to seek an agreement. And, no doubt, that light makes our work easier. We only ask those groups who have no corrections to protect this medium and tell the chief physician that its challenge is not easy, we accept it, but we hope that the changes which will be proposed to us in the decree will answer our hopes. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u42	Thank you again, Mr. congressman. We have another question of regulating a decree for social distresss, given by Mrs. Sarabe in the name of the Social Party. We have often supported the legal discussion of social distresss, and every time we have had it, we have said that we have a good, progressive, and effective system of protection, which even the enterprise itself admits. This week we've been able to listen to Professor Enplegu, Social Society, and Housing Committee as other representatives have said, to the College Arriet and Professor Calvo. Their explanation, as well as the importance of maintaining the community's support in society, expressed the importance of it. They said that we must consider social policies as investments throughout the show, over and over and over again, and that's what we agree with. Eunteberts and funk is the foundation of welfare, the fourth column of society. In this, too, we agree with the professors of the university, and probably with all the other groups, or at least with most. At the last discourse of the representatives of some groups, which give us some doubt about the position of some parties. We will not tire of repeating that we have a system of social protection which is a reference, both for the State and for Europe, a good and effective system, approved by a large majority, and which, in our view, must be understood as an investment in society. Moreover, as Professors Arrieta and Calvo of the University of Deusto also said, this investment reverts to the Basque economy itself. We must also recognize that the system is capable of improving, adapting it to new situations and realities when it is to be implemented. The long crisis we have experienced has meant a very significant increase in the number of users of the protection system. People who were in many cases in the antipodes of being recipients of these aids when the system was created have been engaged in entering the system in order to be able to survive. We therefore share with Mrs Sarasua the need to bring existing legislation into line with the new realities we are encountering. Terrible situations that require different responses to those that have been given to date. We believe that the debate put forward by Mrs Sarasua is positive, we agree on the existence of new realities and needs, so we believe that all of them need to be examined in order to be able to bring the ESA regulatory decree into line with new demands. It has been easy – as other people who have spoken before me also said – to reach an agreement with the Socialist Party and EH Bildu, because we basically share the importance of the protection system that we have as well as the imperative need to adapt it to the new realities that are leaving out of its coverage to many people who are going through it frankly wrong. As we believe in the need to amend the regulatory decree of the ESAs, like most groups in this House, we agree to remove the need to carry out a new study and to use the existing ones in order to obtain a broad consensus in the House to facilitate such a change. The Government is ready to obtain the necessary data to know the new realities and demands of the various existing reports, such as the 2014 poverty and inequality survey, carried out at the request of the department itself; the FOESSA report on integration and social needs, etc. It also undertakes to use the data of several studies developed at the request of the Department of Employment and Social Policy, from which the evolution produced in the demand and needs of the recipients and the recipients of social emergency aid is clear from the meridian. We ask you to observe all this information well, to see the application and evolution of people who are helping for social distresses, so that the changes you have to enter the next year will be a solid basis. In view of the importance of the matter, all the groups we've signed in the middle have done a lot of hard work to have a united attitude, because we're asking the measure for the good of society, and above all, it's the initiative we're going to accept today for people who are doing the worst. In summary, the first point of the transaction calls on the Government to extract from the existing studies what are the new needs and demands of persons perceiving ESAs, in order to be able to make the amendment of the regulatory decree in line with them. In addition, the Government will initiate the internal process for the amendment of Decree 4/2011, which in no case will be effective within a period of less than nine months, as well as all those groups that have had or have governmental responsibilities. As far as the second point of the middle is concerned, we want to make a couple of points to make it clear. The Decrees, as far as they are decrees, belong only to the Government, whose acceptance of decrees does not require the consent of the legislative before they are admitted. But considering the importance of the matter, my friend, I don't think it's any trouble when the process of the alteration in the Decree begins to explain its plans and circumstances and to listen to the opinions of the teams. We insist, the processing of decrees is the sole and exclusive competence of the Executive, they do not have to submit to the previous control of the House. But, given the importance of the ESAs, and in deference to the opposition groups, through the transactional signed today the department undertakes to explain in the Social Policy Commission the most significant changes promoted in the regulatory decree of the ESAs before its final approval. Obviously, the position of the rest of the groups will be heard, which will not be binding for the adoption of that decree, by its own definition. We believe that this commitment today reflects the transparency and good doing of this Government, as well as its willingness to agree and open participation. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing to the non-correction teams, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u44	Thank you very much, President. I agree with the compromise that has been signed and with everything that the various speakers have said, except for the last one that Mrs Arregi has said. I will vote in favour of this compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u45	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr Marotto, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u46	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. I wanted to raise a fundamental question for you. The Basques who have needs such as those we are raising today on this agenda item basically have two channels to take advantage of. One is income guarantee income, the other is social emergency aid. They are different formulas that solve very common problems. There is a substantial difference, and I would like to begin by addressing this issue in this first round, so that they can explain it if they consider it appropriate. The big difference between one and the other, from my point of view, and I think also from the point of view of the others, is that income security income, that is to say, solve the problems of one person being told "You do not have access to income security income because you have, in addition to your usual home, another small property of little property value that excludes you", that change, that matter, in income security income, if modified by income security income, would first be a subjective right of all Basques under those conditions, and second, and above all, a right that affects all these people for twelve months and in all municipalities. That is to say, if these changes are introduced not in the rules on social emergency aid, but in the rules on income guarantee income, we would have a completely different situation. Why am I saying this? Because the option that you pose, to modify the parameters that define social emergency aid by introducing, of what you have said, two unique issues... In one of them you say: "Right now we are excluding some people who have, in addition to their usual home, another heritage of little value; they are excluded, they have no access. We're going to give them cover for social emergency aid." And I wonder, why do you do that? Why do you make such coverage through social emergency aid, which the Basque Government does not meet for the whole world every year for twelve months? What's the matter, it's cold here only from January to October, and from October to December, isn't it? I wonder why last year the Basque Government stopped paying social emergency aid in September. If I'm not misinformed, I think it was. So, what's happening is that you're asking, "We're going to improve the coverage system." In order not to use the income guarantee income, because you have been absolutely opposed to a change in the income guarantee income rule, you resort to the ESAs, but you forget one thing: the proposal that you are putting forward here is a proposal that, being very voluntarist, if at the same time, on the same day that this issue is debated, there is no increase in the departure of social emergency aid, because you do not increase it at this time, what you are saying is: "We are going to urge the Basque Government to extend the coverage in social emergency aid to avoid cases of energy poverty" (by the way, a matter that we discussed in the last plenary and that you all voted against, calling me at all, remember?); now, the next day, at the next plenary session, energy poverty appears, but no longer in income guarantee income, mysteriously appears in social emergency aid. Do you know that one of the contents, in particular Article 3 of the ILP, which is being dealt with in this Parliament, and that I stand with my group in Parliament, incorporates, among other things, that the assumptions of income guarantee income coverage should be extended to those persons who, in addition to their usual home, have other property of low economic value? Did you know, or didn't you? Because you have called us all to defend this, and it turns out that now you are taking it out in the debate. But I have to unravel the pot, because this cooked that you are doing today smells fatal. It smells fatal for a reason. Because, in the event that this initiative is approved as proposed, it would only benefit those citizens of Euskadi from municipalities or rich or large. Yeah, that's for sure. Because municipalities with fewer resources and smaller municipalities do not have the budgetary capacity to do the duties of the Basque Government when it forgets to provide ESAs economically. And there we have to agree. The Town Hall of Muskiz, or the Town Hall of Oyon, or perhaps Barakaldo, or other Town Halls, do not complement (I have said random examples, I am also wrong in one; I think I was wrong in one), in some cases, in most Town Halls of Euskadi the municipal budgets do not cover 100 percent of the social emergency aid with their own budget when the Basque Government says "I no longer have any more". So, your proposal, this that, as we have said not to the important debate, which is to introduce subjective law, we are going to avoid energy poverty and we are going to avoid... Because it looks like you guys are starting to change the speech now. Now we are told, "No, actually, this is what some people are saying and what many Basques are signing on an ILP", which in its article 3 incorporates a point that is basic, in which it seems that you now step back and we agree, that is that, in fact, you can't leave a person lying down to say, "You have a garden in Extremadura, or you have a garage, which is another heritage"... Now you realize, after six months? Now do you realize this? Because, of course, instead of saying, "I'm sorry, we're wrong, when the ILP comes into this we'll agree," no, they don't. They say "No, not the RGI, which is a subjective right and reaches all Basques, although they live in a municipality with few resources and even a small town hall. No; we do it through social emergency aid", which only reaches the twelve months in municipalities such as Vitoria, or others that have capacity... He did not laugh, because there were so many municipalities in Gipuzkoa that had the will but did not have the capacity to help their citizens, when the Basque Government stopped paying, to receive these benefits from the municipality. Then why are you doing this? But isn't it better to say, "Look, we're wrong. In this, at least in this, you were right, or you were right"? Look, there are a lot of things about your proposals that we don't agree on at all, in substance or in forms. I am willing to make that debate, it will come sooner or later, and everyone will have to make their own self-criticism. But there are ILP issues that we are dealing with that are common sense and that you are showing here today. Indeed, they finally realize that they are leaving out many people that because they have a second ridiculous, sometimes unsold, inheritance that cannot be materialized, cannot be sold, an orchard in another autonomous community... , they're left out of the cover. But you decide, "No, we're too proud to say we're wrong. In this part, look, these gentlemen were right." We were right! In others not the same, in the background or in the forms, or in both, but in this yes. But they do not apply the necessary measure. They make an agreement and they say, "Let's change the ESAs. We are going to modify the ESAs, but we do not guarantee anyone today that there is more money." That is, that tomorrow, when some read in the media "The Basque Government will expand the assumptions so that effectively" – as we were asking some – "people with a scarce heritage, in addition to the usual housing, do not get dumped," they will say "Well, then let's go the right way!". But some voice – I will be one of them, I am doing it today – will have to tell you that no, that no; that this is only if the municipalities of good will lend themselves to it. I mean, the account, the bill account today, to the city halls. What happens is that not all municipalities can, and some also don't want. There are municipalities, such as Bilbao, which is a rich and large municipality, which do not do this, and when the Basque Government ends with social emergency aid they say, "It's over, I close your window. That you're cold? Well, you wait until January." That's what Bilbao does. You know that, don't you? That's what Bilbao does. But in any case, in any case, can you explain... Is that what you're talking about? Because I intend to... Today we speak of nothing but people with heritage, with little heritage besides the usual housing. I hope we don't have another debate, but I wonder: Why don't we do it in the RGI, which is for all Basques and the twelve months? Why through the ESAs, without the money from the Basque Government, do we know that it is now more covered with the same money? That is, this year 2015, if this were to apply, instead of the end of the money in September, it will end in June, or July. That is, that the municipalities that we can or want we have to put more money and do it to cover an assumption, simply because some do not want to say "We are wrong. In this, of course, they were right. We cannot continue to exclude from the RGI people who have, in addition to their usual housing, a scarce additional wealth of little value." Why not? Politics is also the art of recognizing when one is wrong and changing position at a given time! Well, I say so. I say it, and I have no problem recognizing it. But we're gonna do it right! It's not in the AES, it's in the RGI. But, of course, after what they have assembled, what they have armed, what they have told us...! (Barreak) They laugh, but it's for crying. They laugh, but it's for crying.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u47	Silence, please... Silence. And, Mr Maroto, go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u48	Because you can only laugh at a person who hasn't read that IPL. In your article 3, gentlemen, put exactly this... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u49	Please. Please go to the end, Mr Maroto, you have run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u50	Yes, in your article 3 puts exactly this. It is simply a matter of putting the will on the matter and addressing the issue where it should be...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u51	Mr. Maniro, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u52	... That it is in income guarantee income, and not in social emergency aid, that the Basque Government does not pay at the end, but that they end up paying the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u53	Thank you, Mr Marot. Thank you. Passing on the turn of the answers, representative of the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Sarasia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u54	Mr Maroto, it hurts you that your city council does not get the money so that it can meet all the demands that justify your need for social emergency aid, obviously. And also the citizens to whom you are questioning and who have the justified need and who meet the requirements of the law, they also hurt the words you pour. Because that's what's going on. And we don't have to go out here to recognize mistakes. We have to go out here to do what we are doing: to make proposals, to make debates and to achieve consensus, a consensus for people, as has always been the case on social issues. So, you say why we don't raise the same thing for GIR. And why don't you put forward what you put forward for social emergency aid? Do you understand me? You just have to know how to get the ticket back and forth! Not that because you are mayor and manage aid, you do not have to question it, and it turns out that the aid managed by the Basque Government questions it. Well, look, that's not it. That's not the case. Evidently, the spokesman of the Nationalist Party and the spokesman of EH Bildu have appealed to a good appearance, which I would have liked you to have been here, who came to the Basque university to attend to explain how investment in social policies in the Basque economy reverses. And you know what they told us? That the difference in everything that is happening in the Basque Country and the difference that makes us with Spain, with the rest of the communities, is precisely because of the investment that is being made in social protection policies, in social policies. They have already said that the real risk that exists in this society is the chronification of unemployment; that, despite the economic recovery, this issue had to be addressed. And they did explain that this better socio-economic and employment situation in Euskadi, compared to the rest of Spain, was precisely because of the existence of a social protection system, together with the commitment by the advanced industry and for investment in R & D+i. Even so, they said, 170,000 citizens are unemployed; 108,000, 64% of the unemployed are long-term, and some no longer receive unemployment benefits, most do not receive benefits, and have had to resort to the Basque protection system. Therefore, no one says that we do not have to make adjustments and improvements in management. Obviously, we have already said, the times are what they are, and no one was expected that this crisis would be so long, and that it would have those causes and effects that it is having on citizens. So, if you want to talk about adjustments, if you want to talk about modifications, bring it in and plant it, but here, without putting into the focus of controversy precisely on the most vulnerable people, those who can't beat you and who are the worst they are going through. And that, Mr. Maroto, is so. That's right. In addition, I would like to say that, as lauded, you should be concerned about the situation that is currently going on in the province of Álava, and about the need we have for these social policies more than the rest of the provinces. We have 27,919 unemployed (recent February data); of these, 16,595 are not entitled to any kind of benefit. In 2012 there were 12,925 people receiving unemployment benefit; in 2015 there are 11,369. Of last month's contracts, 93 % are temporary, less than three months. This is the job that is being created by the Alava. And many of them paying 450 euros a month. That's the problem we have to overcome. Those are the public policies we have to face. That's what we have to get, Mr. Maroto. And of course, if he wants to find us in dissent, he will not, but we do want to reach consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u56	Thanks again. We had no intention of taking the floor in the second round, because we had an agreement signed by the three amending groups... But after the perlites that Mr Maroto has let go of us, then we have to say something. We were surprised that the debate today did not involve another spokesman who always carries it around the ESAs, which, by the way, also almost always have the same meaning as the vote. We were surprised that Mr. Maroto was wearing it today, and now we've seen why. We already know that the municipalities put a lot of money in it. I said that in my first speech. This item has to be increased: EUR 10 million last year. It seems to us to be a matter of concern to us, and that is why we in this Parliament are calling for it again and again. And today in our amendment to the whole it was collected, but I also said that we have removed it because we believed that this was an agreement, and since the proposal was not ours, it was an amendment to the whole, we will bring the debate back. I hope that day you will also come down to the stand and we will come to an agreement again. I hope and hope that we will reach an agreement. It's clear. We also believe that, if this is the case, as we have said and told Mr Toña, to extend rights, surely the budget line will have to be greater. And, if not, here he's gonna have us over and over again, like he's had us, asking for it, asking for it. We're not going to change the speech, nor have we changed it. The thing is, you don't understand us. I think you don't understand us, or you don't want to understand us, or manipulate us. Because to say that we seem to agree about the ILP that you are defending – on the street, because here has not yet arrived – really offends us. It offends us. It has re-mixed energy poverty with GIR. I told him the other day: we have named the bill for light because it is precisely a grantable expenditure on social emergency aid. We already know that this does not end with the alleviation of energy poverty, but it is a small measure. But I also said that most of the expenses for which ESAs are used are to pay for housing maintenance expenses, mortgage credits, to prevent people, for example, from staying on the street and losing their homes. That's why we're not going to admit, we're not going to admit that we're wrong, because we think we haven't, and what you're doing is misinterpreting it, misinterpreting our words on purpose. Today we have achieved – we believe, and we say it again – a good agreement. A good agreement that expands rights, that expands coverage. You have only referred to the capital limit in the amendment, but there is much more! Apart from the capital limit, we are talking about new situations of poverty to which we must respond. What happens is that I don't know if you identify very well with that, and that's why you haven't named it. We do. That is why it is included in that amendment. And today, while we've signed a good deal here, you're still in your microgun, in your micronebula, with your chair to the mayor's office and the RGI, and your nose, because it doesn't seem to see much further. He doesn't see much beyond that. Today we have again listened to issue 3 or chapter 3 of his book, because he has come to sell his book, which we could headline, for example, "How to become mayor of Gasteiz and charge me with social rights in the attempt", for example. Again we have listened to him here again, again, he has taken the debate where he wanted to go. We're not talking about that. I'm not going to argue with you anymore, because I don't think it's worth it. We have a good deal, we have a good deal, and in that we stay, you in your microgune, at the other end of the galaxy, with your armchair, your RGI... And her nose. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Please, quiet... Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u58	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. The agreement we reached today is a good one, Mr Maroto, from which you remain out. He's talking about the heritage limit, that we've all been wrong and that it would be good to rectify... , with a capital limit. If you read the amendment, at no time are we talking about the heritage limit. There's talk of a lack of liquidity, first of all. And, as Mrs Blanco has also said, what this is about..., is asking the Government that, in view of the crisis and the multiple and repeated cuts that are driven by Mr. Mariano Rajoy's Government, using that absolute majority that it has, those cuts that have caused people to have new needs and demands, then is asking the Government to examine those demands and new needs that that crisis and cuts have produced, so that in this way the decree can be amended and cover these people who are going through it frankly wrong. That in the first place. Secondly, once again you have come down here, as the representative of Bildu also told you, to talk about your book, which, as recently as last summer, has taken up the Eastern issue of ESAs and GIRs, and so on, and is turning it into your electoral flag, because you have started to talk to us about that famous ILP that is pushing and that which we are not yet aware of, because it is not being dealt with in this Parliament yet. And, as you were talking about rectifying when you are wrong, I think that what you should do is apply the story and rectify it, because it would certainly be very surprising in this case that you were the only one who took the step well and the rest of this House we are reaching agreements totally against your positions. I was talking about two channels, the RGI, the social emergency aid, which I remind you that it is both the RGI as a whole and the CPV as well as the ESAs, which constitute this unique social protection system and are a whole, the system of protection with which we have been endowed in this country for a long time, and with great consensus, by the way. That consensus that you are now trying, by active and passive, to break by a thousand and one ways. And, set to distinguish between those two channels, as you called them, you have also forgotten to mention the difference between them. The RGI and the PCV are subjective rights, and the AES are of a subsidized nature, as you well know. But this, just in case, did not mention it when he was giving us the class of the differences between the two channels. And finally another detail that he has not mentioned, which is the decree in force, regulator of the ESAs, 4/2011, which in its article 11.2 talks about the obligation of the municipalities to reduce the amount that the Government gives them to deal with the ESAs. It is an obligation, the article is imperative. And I remind you that it was approved in 2011, to see who was ruling with who's help. It was approved in 2011, and it is imperative. Because, as you will understand, what is not right is that, because one person makes the request in January and another person arises the need in September, that of September, even though he may have greater needs, he is left without the help of the ESAs because you have not made the minority to which you are bound by that regulatory decree of the ESAs. And, finally, simply tell him that the agreement reached today is good. It's good for society, it's good for people who are having a bad time. And we are ready to see and analyse these new needs and demands that have emerged as a result of the long crisis and the multiple cuts that come from Madrid, I insist. And so what will be done is to adapt that decree so that as many people as possible can have access to the aid they need to stay out of the system. And let us hope that you can also vote in favour, because the truth, with the speech you have made, which you have come to talk about, could perfectly vote in favour of the compromise amendment reached by the rest of the groups.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Mr Marotto, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u60	Yes, thank you very much. The last intervention has been entirely revealing. The PNV has already marked your recipe: "Minorize the quantities". To all recipients of social emergency aid, what needs to be done, the PNV solution is "minor you the amounts". Look, my grandmother doesn't understand "Minorize the quantities," do you understand? We're going to have less every month for the usual needs. That is, this proposal that you are putting forward today is: with the same economic amount in the ESA budget (with the same economic amount in the ESA budget), we are going to increase the number of people who have to receive social emergency aid. And the answer of all of you is: and the mayors what they have to do is to minimize the amounts. Minimize the quantities. That is, when I get out of here and meet a person on the street and say to myself, "I have heard that an initiative has been adopted in Parliament so that people who do not have liquidity" (among other things, when they have additional assets besides the first home and are denied RGI), "I have learned that in Parliament the PSOE, Bildu and the PNV have approved a motion and are going to give me. What's this like?". I will have to translate today, and I will say, "What the PNV has told me is that we must reduce the quantities to everyone." I mean, I have to say to my grandmother, "They're gonna give you less, because now with the same money they want to split more." And I say, and I say it very clearly, and I say it very loudly, that that's not our recipe, that there's another formula called income guarantee income, which you don't want to touch, because you've gotten into a maze that doesn't have to turn back. That, by saying that they do not remove the abuses in the aid, they are saying that not also to a proposal like the one we are presenting, which is that the people who lack liquidity, the people who have a small patrimony in addition to the usual housing, must be given an income guarantee, which is for that reason. And you can't say, "There's no one for you," or "minor you," or "pay you the bill for the city council," because they don't have the resources. Your recipe is wrong. She's wrong! I sincerely believe, and I say this from the heart, because there is a widespread feeling in this outside of this Chamber, that, because you do not recognize that income guarantee income is a good system, that usually in most cases comes to who should, but that you have bags of fraud and abuse that must be eliminated, because you do not recognize that, you will pay just for sinners. Today, with your proposal, the people who need greater coverage, and that you do not want to open the door of income guarantee income, you will have to go to the AES, some AES that today have the same amount, some AES that you say you have to minimize to get them to more. I say, "No. We have to add up cases to reach everyone, and arrive with guarantees." Because income guarantee income – and in that I agree with you – is a subjective right (the one who has the right, has to have it), and this you raise today is, in fact, of a subsidizing nature, that is, until the money arrives. And if it doesn't arrive, the recipe of the PNV, which has become meridianly clear here today and will be in the record, is to minimize, cut, reduce, remove. The ones there are, put less money, because it's the same amount for more people. They've got the wrong plan, because there's an alternative formula. It is income security income, which is indeed a subjective right. Why are they denying it? Why? Why? Among the ILP approaches we deal with is that. There's a lot of things, but there's that too. And we ask, and we ask honestly, because we have done a field job, as you have done... If I know that there are a lot of people from PNV, PSOE, Bildu or UPyD who say, "But why do you say no to this which is common sense? Why not stuff like this?". Why not change the income guarantee income item, which now says that all those who have assets, in addition to the usual housing, are out? Why do they do that? Why don't they say, "We're going to change the income guarantee income, and that article says now that people who have housing in addition to usual housing, or low-value assets, are excluded." Why don't you do it right? For not giving your arm a twist? Not to say I was right? Not to mention that there are contents of that ILP on which you agree? For not denouncing yourself? That's not politics, that's not citizen service! That's getting screwed up like a little boy with the toy: don't take it away from me, don't break it off. Today, an initiative that is not the right one is approved. I am totally in favour of helping people without liquidity. You have chosen the wrong way. It is not social aid, which the Basque Government cut off in October. What do we tell those people in November and December? What's not? That the PNV goes out to Parliament and says "minor you"? No, man, no! What we have to say is, "Let's go to the law, to income guarantee income, and let's put everyone in charge." Let's make a generic deal, and as far as we agree, let's move forward. There will be things that don't, but many that do. The way to tackle this problem is, as we propose in that ILP, to change these measures in income security income. This, without money, is a blow to many Basques who are going to believe that tomorrow they will have the problem solved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u61	Thank you, Mr Marot. End of discussion, we'll vote for Euskal Socialists, EH Collectors and Eubertarian corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u62	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Mution introduced by Gorka Maneiro Labay's Mistto-UPyD members-about the supposed irregularities of the Arkbank. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and get rid of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u63	Thank you very much, President. I bring to the Basque Parliament the scandal we have known, which has occurred in Kutxabank. Let's review the facts we've been able to get to know. The current President of Kutxabank, Mr Villalabeitia, informed the board of directors of Kutxabank – where many of you are represented – that, after an internal audit, there had been a substantial increase in the minute paid to a law firm without any justification for it. The result of the internal audit was transferred to the members of the board of directors – where many of you are represented – at the regular meeting held in the penultimate week of December, and in it the current president of Kutxabank obtains the necessary support for the documentation to be forwarded to the Bank of Spain for his knowledge. The Bank of Spain orders Kutxabank to forward the same documentation to the European Central Bank. The case reaches the European Central Bank in January. The Kutxabank officials show the European supervisor the evidence that would demonstrate the irregular payments authorised by Mario Fernández to the former delegate of the socialist government in Euskadi, Mr Mikel Cabieces. Kutxabank forwards to the Office of the Prosecutor documentation on the alleged irregular payment of EUR 243,592 to a law firm with which the former government delegate, former mayor of Portugalete, socialist activist and member of the socialist executive, Mr Mikel Cabieces, would collaborate. Mikel Cabieces, after meeting with the secretary general of the Basque Socialist Party, Mrs Idoia Mendia, resigns as a member of the socialist executive to which she belonged and delivers her socialist card. The Basque Government was initially surprised by Kutxabank's complaint. Mrs Idoia Mendia disassociates the Basque Socialist Party from the relationship between Cabieces and Kutxabank, and, like the Basque Nationalist Party, defines the scandal as "a private matter" between Mr Mario Fernández and Mr Mikel Cabieces, which would not affect the Basque Socialist Party or the Basque Nationalist Party. The People's Party is also trying to disengage, and it is directly responsible to the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. Ms. Mendia said that in the Kutxabank case no leader of the Basque Socialist Party had intervened, adding that they were particular issues of a labour relationship that should be clarified in the Office of the Prosecutor. The Bizkaia Prosecutor's Office initiates investigations to verify that there have been irregularities in Kutxabank. The Chief Prosecutor of Bizkaia analyses the documentation and conducts the first investigations. The Director of Human Resources, Mr. Mario Fernández and Mr. Mario Cabieces testify before the prosecutor. Some have said the People's Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi asked Mario Fernández, at the end of 2011, to help Cabieces. As a result, the former delegate of the Government would be hired for three years by the labour office that works as an external consultant to Kutxabank, which would incorporate him into his team and in return increase the amount of the monthly equal that then turned to BBK and weeks later to the already merged Kutxabank. Rafael Alcorta's office would have accepted the increase in his match with the bank. Mr. Mario Fernández acknowledges the payments to Cabieces, and states that in 2012 a leader of the People's Party asked him for a job leave for the former government delegate, and cites similar cases where he allegedly acted in a similar way. It should be recalled that Mr. Mario Fernández was not only the economist commissioned by the Basque Nationalist Party to achieve the merger of the three Basque boxes, but he led the political negotiation with the main Basque political parties to reach an agreement in the autumn of 2011 that facilitated BBK, Kutxa and Caja Vital's lending to Kutxabank. Mr. Mario Fernández issued a statement after testifying before the Prosecutor's Office. He speaks in that communiqué of an unwritten law that has worked with all governments and all political parties over the past thirty years. In this statement he talks about a pact between the main Basque political parties to facilitate a job exit for a socialist militant. The Office of the Prosecutor sends the case to the court, and requests that Fernández, Cabieces and Alcorta be charged. The prosecutor sees crime in the operation designed by Mario Fernández to pay Cabieces. We are talking about three possible crimes of extraordinary gravity, in our view: unfair administration, misappropriation and falsification of a commercial document. We're sure to get into what's most important. In our view, the facts we know conclude that we are dealing with a turbulent issue, which is, above all, a symptom that shows a concrete way of doing politics in Euskadi by the main Basque political parties. And we want it to be clarified, and that similar thing never happens again. We are in the presence of a dark matter, which we believe to be the constantly revolving doors, the unacceptable and old way of making politics, the lack of friendship and reserve. And all this has to be explained. They are, in our opinion, the revolving doors of all life. They are the old practices of certain political parties. It's the usual amigoism and plug-in. It's the old way of doing politics. Obviously, we do not believe, and no one believes, that it is a particular matter agreed between Mario Fernández, Mikel Cabieces and Alcorta. No one believes it at all. Some said that the windows should be opened in Kutxabank (in particular Mrs Quiroga said). UPyD doesn't think it's enough. It must be depoliticised, and above all thoroughly cleaned up Basque policy, and prevented such cases from happening again. We've got to figure out what happened inside the chests, and probably the most important thing to do is clean up euscal politics. Why do political parties use an institution that is not theirs, supposedly, in this case Kutxabank, to solve their problems? What is this about unwritten laws that skip the existing legality that, however, must respect the commons of citizens? We are not, by the way, faced with a fair decision, as some have intended to sell, but with an arbitrary and discriminatory act, without any legal cover. And, in our view, this case shows how political parties have acted for years in Euskadi to split up positions and positions. We ask: Are there more cases?, do you know more cases? Do they have direct access to certain persons who have benefited from similar things? Can you put them on the table? Do you want to make them public? Will such cases be prevented in the future? Are we going to do something so this can't happen again? And a question that goes through our heads all the time: Did no one know anything about this question?, did the main political parties that were in there know nothing? Was it a private pact, or was it an agreement between various political parties to benefit a person? But it's not even important in this particular case, it's not even the most important. The most important thing is that we have to put an end to the old way of doing politics, to the secret pacts, to the prebendas, to the divisions between the different political parties in order to put their people in a certain place. That is what needs to be done with and what we propose in that motion as well. In Euskadi there has been a lot of friendship and a lot of funnel. To make it clear and not to use any words that some spokesman of the Basque Nationalist group does not like, everything has been distributed and well distributed. Shall I explain myself? Everything has been distributed and well distributed. They are the dark covenants to place one or the other in different institutions or public enterprises. There was only one indispensable requirement: to have the corresponding political party's card in order. Can you deny this to me? I don't think so. I believe that what they should do, therefore, is vote in favour of this motion. Two points has this motion. On the one hand, we want this Parliament to support the already open judicial investigation into alleged irregularities in Kutxabank. And someone will tell me that this ruling would be useless, but I think it would be important for this Parliament to say that it actually supports this judicial investigation, because we want clarification of what has happened there. And we also want this Parliament to commit itself to doing everything possible to determine all the political responsibilities that might arise from such irregularities and actions. We do not have sufficient capacity to propose the setting up of a commission of inquiry, but in any case it would be interesting not to set up a commission of inquiry to analyse and investigate this particular case, but above all – and this is what we propose, theoretically at least – the setting up of a commission of inquiry to analyse the way in which we behave and the existing pacts that we do not know between the different political parties. And in the second point of this motion we propose that this Parliament reject the use of the so-called revolving doors, as well as the use by political parties of all the institutions within their reach (saving boxes, banking foundations, regulatory and control bodies, public administrations or the public corporate sector) to defend, through unwritten laws, secret and pre-bend pacts, their particular interests and supporters ultimately. Finally, no amendments have been tabled, I do not know what the different groups will do. I suppose what some of these groups will do, but, in any case, we believe that it is an indispensable, very clear and very direct motion, that what he proposes is to change the way of doing politics in Basque, and that, of course, this particular case and many others can be clarified, and ultimately end those agreements, with those dark pacts to divide certain positions and positions that have been agreed by the different political parties over the last decades. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u64	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing to the uncorrected teams, representing the Basque Potulag, Mr. Damborena, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President. I, Mr. Maneiro, thought that I was going to bring us some news on this subject, or that I was going to raise something, but that I was going to read to us at this point the hemerotheque... I'd just ask you for a little consistency. I mean, if you believe Mr. Mario Fernández, believe him whole. And if you believe others, believe them whole. What I don't do here is a totum revolutum : from here I take this, from here I take this, from here I take this..., and then I believe here the mess father that all parties, secret pacts, non-secret pacts... Look, I don't know any secret pact, and if there's any party that all the covenants and all the agreements that make them public is ours, not from now on, forever, and in writing. And in writing, because at first they were made oral and, finally, some you can trust more and others less, and then at the end, quite a few years ago, this party decided that almost better than, when you make a pact, you put it in writing. Because, although some say it's not necessary, then they say, "And where is that written?", that we have also experienced this as a political party. So for many years now, more than eight, I say to you that when we make a pact we do it in writing. We were going to vote in favour of your first point, if you can, understanding it as we had read it, not what you have come to tell us and explain here. And, of course, I will repeat a question that I ask you a long time ago from this rostrum: when it says "We must name..., political parties, institutions cannot name...", listen, and who should name? Because when you're in a democracy... Man, at Franco's time it was clear: Franco. I was chained down... Well, well, I'd go like this. But in a democracy there are elections, citizens elect representatives, and then those representatives... even in this Parliament we often elect representatives elsewhere. And if the citizens' representatives don't do it, do you want to explain to me who should do it? Who should represent the municipalities in other institutions, or the parliaments or the Government itself? It's very good to say, "Political parties have to disappear." Hey, you guys break up first, and maybe we'll listen to you guys. But, of course, the others are in a political party because we defend ideas that we want to win and be able to better manage the interests of the citizens. So, you could have made a more coherent speech, and maybe we could understand more what you're proposing. But if what you have come here today is to pose that all parties do not know what strange things and do not know what secret pacts you know and tell you, or you say we have heard... Look, I can tell you here that I've heard that someone from UPyD has raised something, and it's ridiculous, right? I believe it or I don't believe it, but if I take it and let it go... Sure, sure, sure! So, what have you come here to do? "Someone said, I heard, I heard, they told me..." That was his intervention. So, this we all know how to play a long time ago, some more because we take longer. We all know how to play this game a long time ago. The People's Party, what is it for? Obviously, since he is in court, the court acts as soon as possible and clears the responsibilities as soon as possible, if someone has some responsibility to clean up. And what do you want me to say to him? When someone is charged in any trial, so be it, when at least their statements have to be put a little into question, right? People have the right to defend themselves as they see fit; another thing is that I believe that some people are wrong or have not done very well, but from there to believe us on foot together what those who are accused say... Look, if you're gonna believe everything anyone says that's imputed..., create it whole, create it whole, of all, or some. What you can't come here to say is, "I believe you in this part, I don't believe you in this part, and I'm a mid-pensioner in this part, and then I'm talking about political parties." No, no, This is a subject where everyone... Look, this is an issue where at least there is nothing to investigate, from the beginning everything is being investigated, in my opinion, with some excess Kutxabank. Because this research of current accounts of individuals, because, in the end, some will have to explain how that is done, but good. But here is everything very clear and explained: a law firm that hires a gentleman, and Kutxabank in turn pays more money to that law firm, and, according to Kutxabank, for not working. Because that's the crime, supposedly, or that's the offense, supposedly. Well, we're willing to listen and see what the court decides, if that's a crime, if it's not a crime, if it's irregular or not irregular, and that's why we were willing to support it. The second point, then, as you will understand, is a totum revolutum that leads nowhere or anywhere. And when you talk about "swivel doors"... Let's see, I don't know what you mean by rotating doors. I understand that when someone is a lawyer and goes through politics, when he ends up being a lawyer and will work as a lawyer, and if he was in banking and goes through politics, then he will go back to banking. That's normal, I understand it as normal. You don't know what you understand, I don't know what you understand about revolving doors. We understand something... that we had already made an amendment, a second paragraph, but in the end, for reasons of time or others, it has not materialized. But what we do understand is that what must be made clear is that no one, having held a public office, has the right then to have any kind of privilege anywhere. Yeah, but that's not what you say. That was what we intended to say in our amendment, but, as it were, our amendment did not arrive, and that would have been our second paragraph of his motion. And, therefore – you will decide whether to vote separately or not – we would vote in favour of the first point.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u66	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u67	President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Maneiro, we are going to vote against your proposal, put it whole, cut or whatever you want. And we are going to vote against it for three reasons which I will then illustrate to you. The first, because, although we recognize your passion for highlighting in your anti-political practice in this House, we are not going to help you. That's not why we're here. The second, because it makes use of a tactic that is anti-democratic, as it is to accuse in a generalized way. And the third, because it brings nothing to the clarification and assumption of responsibilities for the alleged irregularities, as you quote in your initiative, in relation to Kutxabank. Look, Mr. Maneiro, in my opinion, the mud pools of shrimp tourist destinations are yours. This is what you do all the time here: get angry, get in the mud, and want us to play with you in that pool. And our problem is not that addiction to mud, which brings it one day yes and another to this Parliament, to a chamber of representation of citizens, of the production of laws and of decision-making and of solutions to problems that you strive to depreciate and despise. Mr Maneiro, when the action of a parliamentarian, a parliamentary group, strikes a balance between diagnosis and treatment, he invites others to consider and debate; when he drags himself into the mud of lies, exaggeration and disproportion, he invites to what we should do, the frontal rejection. Mr. Maneiro, you and I have protected our freedom of expression, we can raise the tone and exceed ourselves in characterizations and evaluations. And you, parapeting in that protection, affirm and sign that the parties use savings boxes, bank foundations, regulatory and control bodies, public administrations or the corporate public sector to defend prebends, particular interests and supporters. This statement zafia, provocative, unjust, anti-political, can only be born from a saving and sectic conception. It is in sects and in the homelands where moral superiority is incubated, and where it is preached with a truth and with an absolute exemplaryity. Mr. Maneiro, pathetic and dangerous. Mr. Maneiro, I don't know what you've done in your life, but I do know what I've done and what my companions have done. And I will sum it up briefly: to fight for freedom against dictatorship; to fight terrorism against ETA; to implement public services and social policies in democracy; to develop individual and collective rights; to intervene in the redistribution of wealth, serving the collective needs of citizens; to promote equality; to pursue attacks on life and freedom in any of their manifestations; and, very importantly, to establish a rule of law, in order to ensure, through the action of justice, where necessary, the protection of rights and freedoms and the persecution and condemnation of crimes. Because, although you have not yet learned, in a rule of law, individual and collective freedoms and rights, their guarantee, depends on the ability to activate justice when necessary. Mr Maneiro, what you have dedicated to and what my party is dedicated to is this. And in all this it has not been the Socialist Party alone, but it has always been the Socialist Party. Mr Maneiro, less evil than in this country there have been and will be political parties; political parties like ours, which sink their roots in three centuries. Because this has articulated society; because with the political parties the institutions have been formed; because with the political parties some of the conflicts of interest have been resolved, and a remarkable organization of society has been achieved. Mr Maneiro, less evil that there is political pluralism in this country, that there is coexistence in diversity, and that the future of pluralism and coexistence will in no way remain in your hands, because, if it were, you would only lead us to your particular fundamentalism. Mr Maneiro, the Socialists are dedicated to the noble and edifying task of serving the citizenry that wants it, if you share with us ideology and program. We Socialists are dedicated to this and this alone. And that is why it is an infamy and a pretentious insult, the characterization that makes of us in his motion. I do not allow you to deal with this contempt of the whole of socialism, and that is why I answer it hard, and, if third, I am willing to answer it even harder. We Socialists are not exempt from the fact that, on our behalf, from the action and influence that people acquire in the administration of the public or from the power that some decision-making takes place, irregularities, abuses, excesses or offences can be committed. We cannot guarantee that none of this can happen. But I do not accept that this happens in an organized way in our party, as you put it in your initiative. I do not accept that in a motion of nine lines, of nine raquitica lines, of nine opportunist lines, of nine sapphire lines, in the first you speak of alleged irregularities, and in the last of particular and partisan interests. It's good enough of your burning land initiatives. I do not accept that, starting from a case, from the Kutxabank case, you are attacking everything and everyone. That's anti-politics. It is enough to set a moral superiority that you have never shown. From ethics, from values, from rights, from justice, from coexistence, all his doctrine does not stand a second. To generalize, to accuse in bulk, to extend suspicions, to blame responsibilities without proving anything, is quite contrary to ethics, justice and progress. Check to the acronyms of your game. Mr. Maneiro, justice in the Kutxabank case is already on. Justice is activated and functioning. It is doing so since its independence, it is doing so professionally, with effective instruments. And on that performance we can only ask for as much speed as possible. Because justice, in order to be justice, not to create social alarm and to take good care of the guarantees of a rule of law, must also be swift. Your motion is a hunch, for telling you in a very gentle way, because I would like to say even more forceful things to you. If you want to do a favor to politics, if you want to do a favor to the organization of society, if you want to do a favor to the value of political parties, politics, parliamentarianism, the organized life of society, take that initiative and, where you find a nail, hang it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u68	Thank you, Mr Price. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u69	Hello. Good morning, everyone. We will also begin to explain the orientation of our vote and say that we will abstain from this motion. We agree with some things, but in general it seems to us to be disproportionate, not because the disproportion is too much to be demanded, but because it requires too little. After he had heard Mr. Maniro, I think he might want to go further, and he mentioned the sub-joinment, but at least as he did not mention the motion, we cannot protect that motion as we thought it was. And I mentioned the disproportion. Proportation is the relation between two volumes or two masses; and in this case it is a disproportionate case, because the trouble we have in our hands requires a more bold and deeper answer, which is what we shall propose and shall discuss in the next week. If we go over the press of Esscala last year, we'll come to a conclusion. If Cameron Diaz came to the Basque Country and wanted to make a film, the title would be clear: "Let's pass the trunk." and what has been in question or doubted is not only that which has happened in the neighbourhood of Cabieces, but the dispute about this chest or this bank and the future of the coffers, which is a deep dispute, not only a single case. And we believe that what this case reflects is an improper way of doing things, and therefore we think we must go to the root, go to the roots, and examine everything that is happening around the Arkbanks, because we have a ghost there. A ghost that's unfortunately real is not a ghost of fairy tales, and it's what happened in Navarro with the CAN box. In the year 2009, the Nafarians had their share in that box because it belonged to Halifaxese, 2500,000. Now they've lost a billion dollars in the Caixabank process and they've lost their own safe. That's the ghost we have, and, as I have said, it's a real ghost because this happened, because it's the disappearance of a box, not Levant or not very far, but here in the Basque Country. And that's what we don't want to be with the Arkbanks and the Basque boxes. And we're not in a box campaign. We don't want to damage the picture of the Arkbanks, the opposite. We are in a constant battle and campaign for the Arkbanks. Because we want to defend the character and spirit of the chests and boxes, not the others. The names of others remain, yes, we must defend the Arks at any cost, but without names there is nothing. The trunk is not an empty name, the trunk should be the institution that reflects another way to do things. It's no use telling us we have boxes, foundations, bankings, whatever they are. We know it's a complex subject, but it's no use to say that we have boxes, if those boxes are the practice of banks, like those of any bank. Then we're losing, and we're giving it away, we're losing our box too. We think that we must consider things at bottom, and consider what has happened about Cabieces, and there is a possible crime. And, of course, we think that this must continue the judicial course, but we also think of everything that has happened since the beginning of the Arkbanks, possible corruptions, possibly bad practices, and also political decisions. Because what we have in play is highly important, this institution is central, it's in euscal politics and in the Esscal economy, we're talking about a bank with 60,000 million dollars in the asset when we're talking about the Ark Bank, an enormous economic power. And because we are speaking of an institution which governs the economic resources which this people require, we think we ought to put this irregularity in order to examine a committee of inquiry from this magnifying glass and parliament, in the course of the last years of the course which it has taken in more imaginary irregularity and general. And that's what we're proposing next week, and since this is not explicitly maintained on this motive, that's why we're going to abstain from it. In the case of motives, it is also a very interesting subject, and it seems as if some of us had some doubts or some kind of suffering or susceptibility, and the question of the spinning doors is the question. And in the Cabies, we have another clear example. Cabbies wasn't working alone, as we know, or in theory, without doing anything for the Arkbanks, even at Iberdron. He was charging in Iberdron, a fine salary. And we can say in Iberdrol that he has so close a connection with the Arkbanks, that he has copied from the Ark Bank, or from the coffers a property, and is a social act. It seems that Iberdrola also has social action, has social work, what happens is that she focuses on a very specific sector, which is of the ex-politics, right? The social work of the caisses focuses on the elderly, on retirees in general; in Iberdrola it focuses only on the retirees of the political parties, who casually legislate and act in favor of Iberdrola's interests. Those are rotating doors. It seems that there were doubts, that we were still telling things where we have the burden of proof, when day after day, in all the media, we have permanent examples of politicians going on to work in large companies. Whether they are going to work for large companies or, rather, we should say, they are going to charge the salary of large companies, because working for large companies were already before, during the exercise of their political task. And that is a prostitution of democracy. Let us not be worthy here by raising the importance of the parties. We already know that. We do not do anti-politics, and we believe that there must be parties, but there must be honest parties, at the service of the workers, at the service of the social majority, and not at the service of small elites. Because, if not, you can't understand. Here we have four political forces in this House (four..., five, one smaller). Where are the former presidents of those political forces, if we want to talk about revolving doors? Former PNV President Josu Jon Imaz is President of Petronor. Thanks to his merits, he has already become the president of the Spanish oil lobby. It's in Repsol's direction. Those are rotating doors. The former president of the Socialist Party, Nicolás Redondo Terreros, finished and took a step through FCC, through Esther Koplowitz's company. On what merits? Did he have a lot of prior knowledge in the construction sector, or did he end up in the Presidency of Constructions and Contracts or on the board of directors for payment for services rendered, or to fatten relations with which political administrations? Antonio Basagoiti cannot be said to have had a step from politics to banking. It's the other way around, isn't it? I mean, he was in commission of services, he was a banker in commission of services defending the interests of the bank in politics, and he returned to what his natural space was. When he's tired of so many hooves, he's lifted his finger and given him a seat at a friend's bank in Mexico to live as he should. And Miguel Sanz, the president of Navarra, president who, after cutting wages and full-handed diets, ended up with a golden retirement chairing Bodegas Sarría, Audenasa and others. These are rotating doors! Well, I forgot UPyD, what happens is that UPyD doesn't have revolving doors because it hasn't had a former president, because, come on, there hasn't been a scientific means of separating its president from the chair he's been living from for twenty-five years, and so he doesn't get to have a former president. I don't think you'll ever find that method. So, these are rotating doors. And here we have a concept problem. When corruption is denounced or when rotating doors are denounced, when it is rigorously denounced (here it is not fan, here it is giving data, because it could give a lot more data; there are whole lists circulating, of politicians who are now working in large companies and on boards of directors), when that is denounced, they are not defamation campaigns. The problem is that credibility is absolutely lost, and citizenship loses credibility in politics when it finds that the heads of the ministries of industry and energy end up in the council of Iberdrola, in the council of Endesa..., in the council of those companies on which they have exercised their management and on which they have legislated in favor or against. But, of course, if they're finished on the board of directors, what will people think? For the reality: they have legislated with one eye placed in the present and another in their future. In their future, they are guaranteed in these types of companies by making docile policies and at the service of the interests of these companies. And that is the reality, that is the reality of the vast majority of political parties. That is precisely why, among other things, there is a great crisis of that old policy and there is a need to reflect and change, to change those practices among others. We're in politics, too, and we claim the value of politics. But our intention is not to end up in a administrative conference, I give my word. There will never be a member of the EH Collector's sitting in the direction of the meeting EH and the board of Iberdron, as has happened here in this country, and there has been an important part of the Biscay. Not at different times, in some sub-communciation of the Iberdron, in the administration council, and in the direction of a party. That's never gonna happen in EH Collecton. We are engaged in politics, we defend politics, of course we defend the value of politics, but another way of making politics. We'll never practice these. When our work is over, we'll go back to our previous occupations in the politics world. Izaguirre will be a doctor and Garitano will be a reporter and they won't sit in Iberdron's administration committee.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u70	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Gorospe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Mr. Casanova, you've compared the box to the CAN and that comparison has no real meaning in itself. While CAN is gone, the Arkbank is first of all the financial institutions of the State. There is no sense in even comparing it, that is your severity and seriousness in painting the examples. Our legislative party seems to be of great importance to discuss this matter, to begin with this case of supposed irregularity, to show that it has been the case in the Ark. The inner hearing of the trunk detected an extension of a contract with a lawyer in the bank, and we don't know what the contract extension is, we don't know what it is. The previous expressions of Fernández's attorney, and the reports of the press, if true, leave no shadow of doubt about the origin of the demand, and, if so, we find the decision we have taken to be criticised. Fernández mentioned unwritten laws, Mr. Manisro, as you have mentioned. And we at least have our legislative bodies, at least our party has no news of the existence of that law, nor do we, either. The Jéltarian Party didn't know all about this. The Jéltarian Party has known about this after the time, when the news has been announced in the press. They're making distorted political readings about these events, placed in the middle of the "Eudric Party" in the middle of the diana. But we shall confirm that neither the Jestric Party has ever had any share in this matter, nor now, its origin, nor its origin. There are absolutely distorted readings, absolutely distorted political readings, Mr Maneiro, on these facts, placing the PNV at the centre of the target. But, we insist, the Basque Nationalist Party has not had any involvement in this matter; nor at its origin, Mr Maneiro, that it has no doubts, nor at present. No doubt. Mario Fernández had always kept his independence independent for the sake of good, and in this case his personal decision was also personal. We shall not speculate on this subject on the legislature by the eulogy of the eulogies, when a judicial trial is open. Much less shall I tell lies, and deliberately slander them, or judge them by a double rule. This has no place in the human action and political action of the "Eugal Party" and of the "Eutric Party" of the EU." We are dealing with the investigation of facts arising from a personal decision taken by individuals in the field of a private entity. And you, Mr. Maneiro, said no one believes it. Let's face it: we are faced with a personal decision made by individuals in the field of a private entity. We reaffirm the PNV's decision to act responsibly and respect three basic issues: the outcome of the judicial investigation, the Kutxabank's position, which complied with the guidelines of the European Central Bank, and the presumption of innocence of the persons involved. We confirm the decision of the Jestal Party of Euiz, Mr. Maniro. We will act carefully and respect the result of the judicial investigation, the position of the modern chests, and the presence of innocence of those who are involved. The best thing we can do is to let the judges do their jobs and to wish the prosecutor's alleged crimes...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u72	The translation system is out of line.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u73	...lighting as fast as you can. The Jultarian Party does not use all the institutions which are at its disposal to defend its interests and private interests, as you say in the motive, Mr. Maniro. The Jultarian Party does not use them, the Jelt Party of the South governs the public administration and the public sector. And if he may appoint members of other institutions, he may, in his opinion, call them the best prepared and qualified to do it, no doubt, those who are engaged in independence. In some cases these men have received their experience and knowledge in politics, and in other cases they will come from other professional areas. Are we to be deprived of a portion of our lives, of any part of our lives, of the political practice, of a per se, in the public administration, as you call it, of the social and social administration of our lives? Is that so, Mr. Maneiro? Does action in political action disable us to do that? Kutxabank ez da Euzko Alderdi Jeltzalearen jostailu bat. Professional drinkek ez dute Euzko Alderdi Jeltzalearen irizpideen Arabra lan Egyptian. Lehen is duzu: "The games that were in there." In there, Mr Maneiro, in there those who are are professionals, who act and who make a professional management of the entities. Professionals, Mr. Maneiro. Don't get confused. That happens in other places, what you say. And that's also our difference. That's why you have to check where the Basque Bank is today and where the Spanish savings have remained. The cases of managing the Arks of the Years ago have been proved, neither the Arkbanks nor the old savings have received none of the millions of the European institutions which have been designed to rescue financial institutions. We have examples of the fusation of Kyten, the creation of the Arkbanks, and the leadership of the caudations. The Arkbank is a leader of organization, caduciation and professional. As he has just shown himself, he increases from year to year his commitment to the action of society. The cares and duties of the chests are as follows: Euscadian economics, financials, and manufacturing companies, offering a quality service to users, to be efficient and efficient institutions, to savings and investors, to maintain confidence and stability, to maintain social action and to make professional management. We respect legal proceedings, and we ask for respect for Kutxabank, which, in another example of good functioning, has brought this matter to the attention of the financial and judicial authorities. We confirm our commitment to the legislature team as the Arkbank Project and its excellent financial organization to strengthen its reputation. But again, we respect the judicial initiative and respect for the Arkbanks; for there has been another example which shows that it has a good function, and that this is the case with the financial and judicial authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the answers, Mist, Mr. Maneiro, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u75	Thank you. This is the board of directors of Kutxabank, where the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party and the People's Party participate. You didn't know anything, but you were and still are in there, I imagine to defend your own interests. What does this motion say in relation to the second point, which I see some have not wanted to understand, or have done as if he did not understand? What we propose is that this Parliament rejects the use of the so-called revolving doors, as well as the use by political parties of all the institutions at their disposal to defend their particular and partisan interests. We reject the use of these institutions by political parties. I have not said that all institutions are used by political parties. But, in any case, Mr Txarli Prieto, do you agree that these institutions do not have to be used by political parties? Yes, or no? If you vote against, it means that you are in favour of them being used, as has been done in the past, by the way, in an abundant way, both in Euskadi and in the rest of Spain. Yes, these institutions, many of them, have been used by political parties, by major political parties. Why do you guys feel alluded to? Because they've actually been in there and they've been trying to defend their own, and they're still doing it. And that's a reality. Again with anti-politics, lies and similar disqualifications, as "pathetic and dangerous" by Mr. Txarli Prieto. And it tells me that the Socialist Party has been dedicated throughout its history to creating and defending the welfare state, and it tells me that that is indeed the Socialist Party. Yeah, but it's also the EREs of Andalusia, and it's Filesa, and it's the black cards, and it's Bankia, and it's certain commissions for example in the AVE, or it's the sinking of dozens of savings boxes that have been used by you, because you were in there. Those are also facts. And that's what we want to banish. We do not want to banish any democratic political party. Political parties are indispensable. What we want to banish are the bad practices that have existed in Euskadi for decades, and you know it perfectly, much better than I do, by the way. Those are the practices we want to banish, the use of certain institutions for the benefit of political parties, or of prominent members of those political parties. That's what we want to banish, not anything else. Don't manipulate. About a month ago, the general secretary of the Vizcay people denounced the use by the Basque Nationalist Party of dozens of public enterprises in Bizkaia, by the Basque Nationalist Party, to place their people. This is not new, that is, there is this reality, the use also by political parties of certain public enterprises to place their people. Dozens of cases. What, by the way, did the spokesman of the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry answer to the People's Party? He replied, "You do the same in Alava." This is a common practice, and you know it, I say, much better than I do. And someone asked me, "What are the revolving doors?". If you know perfectly well what the rotating doors are and what we are talking about, what we are talking about! We can put in dozens of cases, some have already put in. Mr Atutxa, for example, former Home Secretary with the PNV, Iberdrola's advisor. The case of Mr Andoni Aurrekoetxea, former senator of the Basque Nationalist Party, councillor of Enagas. Mario Fernández also, who was vice president of the Basque Country and then councillor of Repsol and then president of Kutxabank. Or Mr. Josu Jon Imaz, CEO of Repsol, President of Petronor. Or Mrs Mendizabal, councilwoman of Spanish Electric Network until 2012, Socialist MEP. And dozens and dozens of cases: former government presidents, ex-politicals, former public offices that have been placed in certain institutions to benefit them. Not because they were good professionals, but because they had belonged to a political party and had to pay them favors. Yes, Mr. Prieto, you know perfectly well. Don't do so much theater. This is a reality. And this is what needs to be banished, because people are sick of these behaviors. And that is what we wanted to bring to the debate. Not only that the Kutxabank issue should be clarified, but also that the idea that this form of behaviour has actually been spread in Euskadi is clearly well known by the Nationalist Party. How can you deny that reality, which the Basque Nationalist Party has also used to place its own institutions in dozens and tens and dozens of public enterprises? Former leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party, former public officials of the Basque Nationalist Party, placed in one public enterprise or another so that they can earn a salary, in some cases, by the way, without going to work. That is the approach we have taken; I am not saying anything strange. And with this we want to end. We do not want to end the political parties. The motion is clear: to clarify what has happened in Kutxabank; to respect, of course, justice, and then to say: Are we in agreement with the practices that have been carried out by the political parties, are we in favour of those practices, or are we against them? If you are against those practices that have existed, what you have to do is vote in favour of the motion. This isn't anti-political...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u76	Mr. Maneiro, please finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u77	This is not anti-political, Mr. Txarli Prieto. Anti-politics is what others have done, what others have stolen, corruption, plugging, amigoism, prebends, Bankia, black cards, EREs, the Pujol case... All that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u78	Mr. Maneiro, please finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u79	... That's all anti-politics. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, To denounce it is to do politics.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u80	Thank you. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u81	Mr Maneiro, of course, the Basque PP has never used the institutions for the purposes of the party or of anyone else in the People's Party, and if you are aware of anyone I encourage you to denounce it. Don't give us the speech by mixing everything here (first mix us, then such...). No, no, I encourage you to do so, because we have never done so. And I'm gonna tell you one thing. This case, this case has not taken him to the UPyD prosecution; this case has not taken him to the prosecution, to the court, Mr Maneiro. This matter has taken you to the prosecution and brought you to court by that board of directors that you said was that. Of course, yes, Mr Maneiro, that board of directors said that the Bank of Spain and the European Central Bank were informed, and that board of directors presented the complaint to the prosecution. Another thing is that I don't understand why you don't come to court then, but that's another story. But it was that advice. It has not been you who have uncovered this; it has been that advice that you criticize so much. To me the most surprising thing today is Bildu's intervention. I say they could have chosen another spokesperson to talk about ethics, transparency and these things! What I can't admit from Mr. Casanova is that I quote Mr. Basagoiti because he goes back to his job, where he had it. Man, he came back because you failed in the bombings! Of course, it's just that you have balls that we have to come to this House in 2015 to listen to these things, and that Bildu's spokesman says that! And when we talk about revolving doors, then yours will be to go back to jail, I say, because that's where it comes from! And are you going to talk about ethics, morality, someone who has belonged – or belongs, you will know – to a terrorist gang that kills, who has murdered, who has kidnapped, who has stolen, who has collected the revolutionary tax there, blackmail...? Are you coming to talk about ethics and morality? I believe that this Parliament is reaching very low levels of ethics and morality. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u82	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u83	President. Mr. Maneiro, what you write and what you sign: you write the "use by political parties of all the institutions within your reach (saving boxes, bank foundations, regulatory and control bodies, public administrations or the public corporate sector) to defend, through unwritten laws, secret and prebendas pacts, your particular interests and supporters". This is an accusation that makes to all political parties, this is an accusation that makes to my political party, this is an accusation that makes to me, and I do not consent to it. And this is anti-politics, this is self-confidence, this is quite the opposite of progress. This is to defend politics only for the privileged, this is what the right races defend. This is about trying to go against the political system of parties and accusing the parties of generalizing corruption, corruption or whatever you want to call it, this is what you have written. And this you write here because you are an irresponsible politician in this House, because you have no sense of the measure, because you, for a minute of glory, are able to say any barbarity. That's why. Of course, some consent, but I don't consent. I stand up to you and call you what I think you are (an irresponsible, a sapphire), for bringing these approaches here. If you have a specific case, if you know something, if you want to report something in particular, do so. Do it with evidence, do it with political basis, with evidentiary basis, but not with generalized accusations, relying on their freedom of expression, to say here everything that happens to them without any kind of rigour. This is anti-political, this is self-confidence, and obviously I'm not going to consent to it. Those who are most interested in the fact that, when there is a case that has corruption or that has signs of corruption, that has excesses or that has abuses, in our party, we are the ones who engage in political activity with honesty and nobility, with ideology and with program, with commitment, throughout life, in the worst times and in the best. Therefore, we are most interested in these things being resolved, and that they be resolved quickly and that justice works. But do not become a petty vigilante who sometimes doesn't know what he says, as he has written in this initiative. This initiative is an absolute infamy, and therefore I denounce it to you. And, indeed, we are going to reject it, but we are going to reject it enthusiastically. I mean, we're going to reject it with enthusiasm, with enthusiasm, because it's a hoax and a barbarity that you pose here. And, Mr. Casanova, would you like me to give you examples of rotating doors? Look, a revolving door is to enter through terrorism and exit through democracy. A revolving door is to enter by the revolutionary tax and exit by the public salary. What are you gonna talk about? What are you going to talk about here about honesty, dignity and rotating doors! You have a lot to shut up, a lot to shut up. You're a disgrace. Your past, what you have done, is a shame for politics and for everything.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u84	Thank you, Mr Price. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u85	I have spoken several times in this Parliament, and I have never been able to awaken such an enthusiastic response as this. Therefore, I think that, perhaps more than by my person, this disembodied, lacking, ridiculous reaction, full of scarecrows, without arguments, responds more to the truthfulness of the questions that I have come here to raise than to the fact that I am here or to my trajectory. I could've been reminded of that before! They could have disengaged on the first day! They could have made this theater the first day! What happens is that now I have put a mirror in them in which they have seen, and have seen a corrupt face, the corrupt face of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the corrupt face of the People's Party. That is why, and because they have no arguments, and because they have not dismantled a single data, because they have not bothered to get to the bottom of the question, they answer with disqualification or attempt to disqualification. Because it really is not you who gives me the legitimacy to be here, but a good part of the people of Euskal Herria who voted for me. And going to the serious issues, and leaving aside the gentlemen who have lost their nerves, shame and composure, Mrs. Gorospe, I know the results of the stress tests. And, of course, Kutxabank's economic situation is not comparable to that of CAN, but two more issues need to be considered or put on the table. On the one hand, how these results have been achieved. Because, of course, if I take good note of the stress test at the cost of not giving credit to SMEs, of being a leader in evictions, of giving a worse service to the customer, of dismantling the social work and of disinvestment in strategic companies for the country, then let's say I'm selling the car to buy gasoline. And that's not the target of a box. The goal of a box, and that's why they were created by public institutions – and the bank is supposed to serve the goals of the founder and owner of that bank – is to do social work from the financial ground. Obviously, without losing money, but obviously with a social function. And that's what you're missing, and that's the problem. And I told him there were two issues with respect to CAN. Of course, it's not the same situation, but there are things that calm me down, or calm us down. For example, that Mr. Xabier Iturbe is vice president of Kutxabank, with many efforts, by the way, to continue to be president of Kutxa, when he has the dubious honor of having led to losses to the savings bank of the most economically solvent territory, of the most solvent province of the entire Spanish State, which led to losses. And someone said that Kutxa's entry into Kutxabank was practically a covert ransom. Well, well, that person is vice president. And another of the vice presidents, the president of the BBK, is Xabier Sagredo, who was precisely the person to whom he referred earlier, who simultaneous his position as treasurer of the Basque Nationalist Party in Bizkaia with his presence on the council of Iberdrola Generation, and who is now... Well, at Kutxabank I don't know if he can be located and he'll know... if in all that trouble he'll already know where he is; if he's in the EBB, in the BBB, in Iberdrola or in Kutxabank, or maybe at all times he's defending the same interests from different positions. Here is a plan to destroy the savings boxes. I'm not going to reveal any secrets. There's a plan that's not a secret plan, it's a plan that's been published in the press. But it's not a plan that fosters EH Bildu. It's a plan that, until this is rejected... Obviously all journalistic information has to be treated with reservations, but no one has denied two pages in the most read newspaper of this community: "A box that now wants to be a bank." To be more bank and less savings bank, these are the objectives set by the current Kutxabank management. "More risk, lower labour costs, and not being a shareholder of companies." In other words, dismantle and end the essence and social purpose of the old boxes. And that plan to destroy the boxes and turn them into a bank for use is not EH Bildu's plan: it's Mr. Villalabeitia's plan. And that is what concerns us, and that is why we want to know how this situation has been achieved. And plugging people in is one more drop in an ocean that fills us with concern, it's the tip of the iceberg. The case of Cabieces actually can give people a lot of anger (because, with which it is falling, that others plug them so badly gives a lot of anger), it is indeed a case to denounce, to investigate, to clarify and to repair, but the big problem is that it works in these boxes with the aim, by some people, of turning them into a bank to use. And Kutxabank doesn't have as many as thirty by the way of penetration into the Basque market because it has carried out a particularly good policy in the financing plan... No, he has it because it has generated confidence. It has generated confidence in the citizenry that it was something different, and that being something different is what has given it the position it has, not putting financial sharks coming from the BBV to do the banking business in strictly economic terms. Because that's what can endanger Kutxabank, and that's what we want to avoid. We still believe that we are in time to reverse the situation and that this community continues to have a first-class financial instrument to respond to its real needs, which is not to fill the narcissism of aggressive executives, but to respond to the financial needs of the population and SMEs, and also to provide services through their social work. That is our goal, and that is why we really believe that we are defending what is the essence of Kutxabank. All this worries us, all this drift worries us. We are already giving very serious symptoms that Kutxabank is losing its essence, and that is why we will ask that this be thoroughly investigated and that all the political movements that have occurred in recent times be put on the table, in order to try to avoid the catastrophe that would no longer be the disappearance, the bankruptcy of Kutxabank, that is something difficult, but the loss of its essence and even its absolute privatization and the passage to private shareholders. That is why we will come back here next week, with a concrete proposal on the issue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u86	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Gorospe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u87	Yes, presidency. With your permission, off the seat. Casanova jauna zuk esan duzu: "If Kutxabank is in the situation it is not because it has done good business, it is because it has the confidence of the people". And I'll ask you a question: Why does people trust in the Arkbanks then? Why? Or do you think that most of the people in this town are stupid? Why does the Basque People trust in the Arkbanks? Just because he really saw that his career was professional and that's why he trusts him. Without that, confidence is unnatural. Look at what you've done and what you've done and what you've done to make your reputation dirty and you can't get it, you're lucky you don't get it, you still keep that trust. No, don't show me. You yourself said he trusted the people. And I tell you: Why? That's because he's done a good job. He did it and he does it. And we have every confidence that he will continue to do it in the Arkbanks. Cool jauna, zuk esan duzu "the members of the board of directors". The members of the board of directors, regardless of whose name they are, do not defend their own interests or the interests of whom they are appointed. They defend the interests of the financial institution. Yes, Mr. Maneiro, I don't know why you have to question, because yes, the actions of the members of the board of directors. Should we question your interest continually, continuously? Don't you ever do anything for the sake of Euskadi? Never? Never? Why do you question, because yes and at all times, to what interests they respond and what interests are the members of the board of directors watching over? In conclusion, as we said in our first speech, the fact that Kutxabank has brought these facts to the attention of the financial and judicial authorities is clearly a good example, another good example of the proper functioning of the financial institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. After the discussion, we'll vote... Yeah? We could vote split up, right? Okay. We'll vote for the 1st point of Maniro Labay's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters 10; the opponents are 43; the whites are 0; the abstations 21st.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u89	As a result, the 1st point is not accepted. Next, we vote for number two. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters 1, 52; white, 0; abstations 21st.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u90	Thus the second of the motion. this point was not accepted either. I interrupt the whole meeting until after three-fifteen. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-four. At three o'clock in the evening the meeting began again at sixteen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u91	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll follow the whole meeting. Number of points in theme list: "Greet up another bill of law-suits, to denounce the convention of the Super-Punciation of Employment. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Zulaika, it's yours to introduce and take care of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u92	Thank you, ma'am, and good afternoon to all of you here. Rajoy's government has exhausted the legislation of the PP and if we balance on the management of it, it is obvious that it will leave the Spanish people in a very difficult position. In addition to this, the result of their beauty, the other by other works Reformation, has affected the society of Esscal. In fact, besides maintaining a complete inequity of labor, the impoverishing of society, the preparation of the workingmen, and the politics of the richest and the richest. But they didn't make their way alone. Many times the government of Rajoy has sought refuge for the corporations' community and medianiffs, the hardest of all to play the hardest part with the Council Offices, and the UGT unions. I'm saying it was tough and sad because those two unions had the role of the necessary collaborators. He's been looking for it and he's even found it. In this context, the three parties, July 29, 2014, agreed on the negotiations of economic growth and employment. And it was in their minds that the extraordinary program, which had been published on December 20th, was a priority. And although we have little hope, after examining the royal decree, our suspicions were confirmed, it is a programme that will increase the prerogative of the unemployed. I will not enter to examine or explain the whole program, but to determine the main characteristics of this program. And we start with the object that is detailed in the actual decree-law that regulates this aid, and in point 2 it states: "The programme includes active employment policies, work intermediation actions managed by public employment services" – and this is where the most surprising comes from – "in order to increase opportunities for return to the labour market, and a accompanying economic aid managed by the State Public Employment Service and linked to participation in the aforementioned activation policies for employment". And from the object we say we start wrong. What a paradox, isn't it? That for those who have developed a policy purely for employers and big business, they have taken thousands of people to the streets, that those who have implemented a labour reform that has served only to precarious the employment situation of thousands, millions of workers, want us to think that with this help the situation of all those thousands of people will improve. Strategy of the stick and the carrot, but also on this occasion they give them the stick again: stick, carrot, stick. Because there will really be very few people who can take part in this programme, and because those who can take part will not be solved. And, if a placebo effect can cause them, but nothing else, just that. It's a hypocrisy. And now we're going to identify the main characters. One, the help will extend to the maximum six months, and the amount will be 426 euros. Those who are good will be persons without employment, and others who fulfil the following demands: To be registered as a employment agent on December 1, 2014. What, for instance, is the case with people who are out of work after that date? Two, if any minimum income or help has been received, at least six months since this was over. To sign a three, a program of activity, make sure that at least in the next few months they will try to find employment, and participate in all the actions they propose to improve and to find employment. Four, the time to name and make demands, will be between January 15th, 2015 and April 15th. So it's also a close and a short time to make an application. Five, the program will be determined to temporarily or permanently quit. Six, including the other, will be compatible with receiving help, except in public business, with an indefinite or a temporal duration, at most five months. In this period, too, the company will remove the sum of economic help by law or by agreement from the salary corresponding to the workman. In other words, for the sake of corporations, the prevention will increase through this subsidy. After examining the features of the program, we may say that it will not do the effective, nor improve the economic condition of the unemployed. It's worse than that, it'll increase prevention. Moreover, he commands autonomy colleagues to manage this program. This will bring about a complete block of business, which is already overdone. And knowing that this program is influenced by Araban, Bazazia, and Gipuz, our party registered this proposition as a next-law. And now I'm going to come in and explain our proposal. Lehenengo puntuarekin salatu nahi dugu Espainiako Gobernuak indarrean jarri duen Enplegua Aktibatzeko Aparteko Programari buruzko Akordioa. It is a program that will not solve the tragic situation that thousands of people are experiencing, and in addition only a very small percentage of people will be able to benefit from this program. We cannot accept that those who have designed an ad hoc labour reform to satisfy the ambition of a few entrepreneurs, which is largely the cause of the current situation, with the sole aim of seeking electoral results, should push forward these kinds of measures, which hinder the development of our own model, our model and the development of our active employment policies. We are therefore firmly accused of putting on the aids of this kind, which are almost humiliating, and which are useful to the public in order to wash and flatter. Yes, the small sum of support, which is as little as its budget, as its duration, as the conditions which cannot be fulfilled, and their ends, the prevention of pre-eminency, and the management of it itself, the other severe example of the centralization. On the second point, we firmly reject the economic and social model which lies behind the program of these kinds, the impoverishing and premeditation of the workers, which rests in general and on the privatization of public services, which is so precisely that the Government of the Popula Party is constantly pushing. The model of the social dialogue which depends on this strategy, which the Spanish Government forms together with the Council Offices and the UGT unions and the CEOE and Cepyme patronals. And we despise existence itself. By this agreement, it's obvious what a social conversation is for the government, and unfortunately not just for the Madrid Governments, but for you, it's for you, it's for you, it's for you, it's for you, it's for you, it's for you, it's for you. That's the social conversation you make at that table. But in this matter, the representatives of the government and representatives of the corporation are not alone. And that's the most instructive thing about the two union unions being the necessary collaborators. And in this parliament, where the house of the word is home, somebody can accuse us of being against the social interviews of the EH Collectors, and of no consequence. We're for the real, honest, effective conversation, but we're against that kind of conversation, which is very little social. We want to be clear: We are on the side of the conversation, on the side of the conversation with the needs of our social context; on the side of the table where the initiative and the apparatus are to be maintained from the independence point of view of independence, the representative of the majority and the conversation which will respect the will. And in front of the attacks that are foreign and quite negative, for the social conversation which answers the size of the answer, for example, against the form of work. On the contrary, a table to cover the biggest attack on the rights of women workers, in exchange for crumbs and prebends, does not seem acceptable to us. That is what exists in Spain, and that is what some would like to transfer to Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. And that, that's not our model. Moreover, in that model, before that model, they will always have us in front of them. And this is evident from us, but not only by ourselves, but fortunately the majority of the workers has become more and more clear. As the last union results of election plainly indicate. Mr. Urkullu, Mr. Toña, listen to the euscal workers talking over and over and over again. Don't go deep on the road that doesn't go anywhere. And at the last point, and what is important to us, we ask you to take the necessary measures for strengthening our defense system, to ensure the minimum degree of life, of the defense, of the defenseless, of the unemployed in the gym. We have to develop our pattern here, our own model, in this pattern of our own, no one must remain without income, no one will remain helpless. And I'll give you some facts that have a lot to do with the subject. Araban, Bitazian and Gipuzian will have 9,000 unemployed rights to be involved in that program. In Araguaia, Bukka, and Gpuzian, about 171,000 of which are long-term unemployed, and it's calculated that around 57% of all unemployed people no financial preparation is available. For example, what happens to young people who are less than 23 years old? There are thousands of young people in this situation, and that's just an example. That's why we're here to ask you to find a decent solution to the jobless people who don't have any protection, and he'll be right next to EH Collect. This point is very important, luckily, even in the middle by PNV and PSE. So today, we're gonna make a significant advance on the way to complete our backup system. For, for nearly a hundred thousand people who are now unprotected, as I have said before, a window opens for 57 %, which will be very important to reach them and be continued on our side. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Ichaso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u94	Thank you very much, President. Pick it up on. The concept of social dialogue, although relatively new, has acquired a marked importance in public debates, and this one we have here today is proof of this. Especially in the European Union, it is now a regular component of political decisions since 1980, strengthened since 1990 by the Treaty of Maastricht and Amsterdam, by which the authorities of the European Union must consult with the main social partners before drawing up legislation or proposals in the socio-occupational field. For example, at the end of the 1990s, Mercosur stated that the promotion of social dialogue was a primary objective of its policies. The International Labour Organization had also contributed to the dissemination of the concept of social dialogue, and in its programme of activities for 2000-2001 it had already suggested that strengthening social dialogue was one of the main objectives proposed. The recent good economic and social performance of some countries such as Austria and Ireland, which have implemented effective social participation, has contributed to raising public awareness of the opportunity to involve trade union and employers' organisations in economic and social decision-making. This concept integrates values inherent in the values of democracy and its ideals, and seeks to satisfy the aspirations of the parties to work relations for equity and effectiveness. Whatever the definition of social dialogue, it includes a tripartite procedure (employers, workers and government) in the formulation of national and local policies on labour and social and economic issues, and sometimes bipartisan, for labour relations and business management decision-making. In both cases, social dialogue is a component of democratic society, such as the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining. In the Member States of the European Union, social dialogue is a general and well-established practice, which arises basically under two formulas: either through legislation or through the presence in consultative bodies. Trade unions have the power to change relations. In their day, they were able to overthrow the South African government for that of apartheid, and even in Poland a union like Solidarity was decisive in the overthrow of a despotic government. At European level, the European Confederation of Trade Unions and employers have adopted important agreements on the protection of workers. The term social dialogue, in a broad sense, designates the mechanisms for consultation between the actors involved in the problem of work (government, employers, trade unions), but it is not only a consultation, it is also an influence. Now, is social dialogue a trap? The evolution of capitalism, euphemistically called market economy, tends to make believe that the capital-work opposition has disappeared, but this is really a myth. The idea that the interests of both parties converge is simply not real. The same could be said of the social dialogue: through the joint management of the economic system by the social representation, the trade unions are exposed to forgetting that their primary function is to demand a transformation in favour of the workers, and this implies conflict and social struggle. So, in social dialogue, as we say, is there a trap? We understand that no, if dialogue is the continuation of the struggle in the field of discussion and not in the pure and harsh confrontation. Negotiating does not amount to entering into the logic of the adversary, but rather establishing a relationship of forces that is channeled constructively, which will always be preferable to violent manifestations. It is, in short, a step forward in civicism. On the other hand, it is a trap, we understand, when it comes to weakening the capacity to claim the world of work by making trade unions act in uncomfortable areas. It can then be a trap for the workers. Sometimes it is difficult to know whether we are faced with one situation or another, but it is certain that the presence of social representation at the heart of the system, the one that seeks to access information, is the one that ultimately allows us to question the system itself or to question certain approaches. Is the agreement on the extraordinary programme of activation and the programme of reactivation of employment a trap then? We understand you don't. In its initiative, EH Bildu proposes to reject the Employment Activation Programme because it says that the aid is limited and its duration and management objectives are inadequate. We might even agree. Now, those people and families who have received these pirical aids, but who would otherwise not have, present us with a dilemma: if, by maintaining that fury, that composure, that lordship, one ignores the possibility of finding some relief, however short it may be, to these people, what do we do? We understand that today, as yesterday, society and individuals face dilemmas, ethical dilemmas, and indeed this is one of those situations in which you can perfectly make the speech you have made, Mrs Zulaika, which is perhaps not without reason, but then what do we do? Do we forget or ignore the possibility of helping, albeit slightly, ephemerally, pyrrhically, but help in the end, for those who, having nothing, those who are in structural unemployment, in structural poverty, these aids are important, however small they may be? Therefore, such situations should also be taken into account. As far as social dialogue is concerned, we have already said that it seems to us to be an instrument of vital importance. Therefore, the programme which is being censored here and which is being questioned is a necessary programme, aimed at the heart of structural unemployment, as we say, of new niches of poverty and inequality, which will have to be continuously assessed. Because this is another aspect of the agreement, which is a matter of continuous evaluation. And the unions that concluded this agreement are the first to say that there is no end to social dialogue, let alone there is no end to it; that social dialogue must continue, and must continue to achieve new quotas, new rights, new protections. And, therefore, this is not the end of an episode, but it is simply one more page. In short, Mrs Zulaika, it is perfectly feasible to make a speech like the one you have made, even to agree with him, yes, because, how far does the capacity for influence and negotiation of trade unions go? Could more be achieved? Why have the unions, Workers' Commissions and UGT, done this role, to agree on a series of measures that, as I say, are pyrrhic, and which also wash the face of an executive who has laminated social rights, who has shrinked public freedoms? For precisely when an entity, when an organization, or when someone decides to do something that is apparently unworthy, but does so thinking that it will result in the benefit of someone, of a third party, this is a non-infrequent situation. There are times when parents, by feeding their children, do unworthy things, and instead, we would not make a very severe judgment about that behavior forced by a situation of force majeure. Under other conditions that behavior would seem unworthy to us, but when there is a circumstance of that nature, then the judgment is no longer the same. And I set that example to say that when those trade union centres, at the risk of actually looking claudicating and washing the face of a truly involutionist executive, are sacrificing their own prestige perhaps to give help to those who really need it, knowing that not all needs are met, but some do... But sometimes it's more heroic to lose self-esteem knowing that that's how you get someone's benefit, even though it can actually be branded with all the ratings that come up. But what is really at stake is not the prestige in this case of the trade union centres that were involved in that agreement, but the need to help as much as possible to those who need it. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u95	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u96	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. The truth is that Congress validated the new aid for long-term unemployed with the vote of the People's Party, the Socialist Party, UPyD, ICU and the Canary Coalition. However, while this is true, it is also true that there was a great deal of criticism about this measure, for almost all the groups, including those who voted in favour of this aid. This new aid was described as modest, partial, cicatera, insufficient, panic, patching, cataplasm, spinal aid, electoralist, patch, and late. These are the adjectives used by the spokespersons who took the floor in that debate. We have also said a few things, and I will repeat them in this Parliament. We said on that occasion that we appreciate positively that it has been achieved through social dialogue, that behind this aid there is an agreement between business organisations and trade unions. And we said that we value positively the very creation of this programme. We said a long time ago that we have been criticizing the fall in the coverage rate in our country, that we have been pointing out that the unemployed were running out of their benefits, and that the expenditure on benefits was falling not so much for job creation as for the duration of the crisis, for the unemployed who were running out of the coverage of that benefit period. We also welcomed, we said, that this aid could be compatible with the receipt of a wage in a contract for others, because we are talking about long-term unemployed, and it is a way of reducing their recruitment, a way of making it less costly for the employer, without them covering less, and therefore it is a way of promoting their employment. Finally, we said that we agree with the philosophy of benefit evaluation that appears here, because it is something that we put forward at the beginning of the legislature and that we share, that is, that benefits should be assessed. We said that it seems contradictory to us to point out the need to strengthen the protection of the unemployed and that, when there is a new aid that has had social consensus, we vote negatively. That is why we voted in favour of this initiative, despite the fact that it seemed to us insufficient, rachitic and excessively weak. Having said all this, we also said that we cannot fail to point out the important shortcomings of this new aid. This aid is insufficient, primarily because of the number of beneficiaries. It's going to favor about 300,000 people, but we're in a country where the homeless are 3 million. It is therefore benefiting 10% of the unemployed who have exhausted their benefits (300,000 as against 3 million). The second insufficiency has to do with the amount. We are talking about a programme of about EUR 1 billion per semester, EUR 2 billion per year, but it is that in the General State Budgets for 2015, which we recently approved (they approved), expenditure on benefits to the unemployed was reduced by EUR 4.4 billion. Therefore, half of what has been detracted from the budgets is being replenished. And the third insufficiency relates to the duration of the programme, once again an exceptional programme for six months. And we were asking, what then? That is why we criticized and said that it seemed to us to be an insufficient programme in relation to the number of beneficiaries, insufficient in relation to the amount, insufficient in relation to the duration. Beyond the fact that there are some matters that might be fine, and that is less than anything, of course, what we said in that plenary is that it is indeed an insufficient amount; that is what virtually all the opposition groups said, or, rather, all the opposition groups said. We therefore voted in favour because we saw some positive aspect (I say, less is nothing), but it seemed and still seems to us to be a clearly insufficient measure in relation to the amount, in relation to the duration and in relation to the number of beneficiaries that this new aid makes possible. The EH Bildu Group presents us with an initiative that does not provide much, an initiative like some others that are usually presented in this Parliament, more negative than positive, more to reject than to contribute. And the truth is that in this initiative in the first point it was proposed to denounce the agreement, in the second point it was proposed to firmly reject the economic and social model behind this type of programme, and it was proposed to reject even the model and the very existence of the social dialogue table. And I was only making one proposal, let us say that in positive terms, which is reflected in the third point of that initiative: it proposes that this Parliament urge the Government to take all necessary measures to strengthen our social protection system. With this point we did agree, and that is what we had included in our entire amendment. We could also agree with the rest, but it seemed interesting to us that in this Parliament we should also talk mainly about the powers available to this government, and we should do the work of monitoring above all this government. That is why we are presenting an initiative, an amendment urging the Government to strengthen the Basque social protection system, which has also been incorporated into that compromise amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Group. We can share what is said in that compromise amendment that you have signed, we can basically agree with all the points. We can agree to urge the Government of the State to repeal the labour reform, of course, and to review the inter-professional minimum wage and order its systematic updating. This is something we have discussed and voted on other occasions in this Parliament. And we also agree that this Parliament rejects the temporary nature of the Extraordinary Employment Activation Programme, which effectively pursues electoral profitability, as well as its conditions and management. We agree that this Parliament is in favour of social dialogue, and we agree that this Parliament urges the Government to include in public procurement clauses with private companies other possible measures, including those relating to the equality of men and women in access to the labour market; that it make use of its powers to make this possible. And finally, of course, we agree to urge the Basque Government to strengthen the Basque system of social protection. With regard to point 3, what is proposed is that we reject the fact that the aid in question is incompatible with the recovery of aid from the Basque social protection system. Finally, we are certainly voting in favour of this point as well and we are voting in favour of the full compromise, but it seems to me that it cannot be overstated that we enjoy the social protection system that we enjoy in Euskadi as a result of the privileged financing system that we have via economic concert. I think this should at least be said. And, therefore, in the end, we would not have written that text, but, in any case, we will not reject it. I think that at least it should be said. When we say and reiterate that the Basque system of social protection is an example for the rest of the autonomous communities, we should also take into account the financing system that exists in Spain, a financing system that benefits us very clearly and allows us to actually have more money to strengthen the Basque system of social protection. Our alternative would be a minimum income of equal integration in all the autonomous communities, from which each autonomous community, in the use of its competences, could increase, logically from their budgets, for which I say that it would be necessary to modify the system of financing of the State and of the autonomous communities. In any case, we're not going into that today. I believe that the compromise reflects the fundamentals of what needs to be defended today, and that is why, despite the fact that we have not signed it, we would in principle be prepared to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u97	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u98	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Good afternoon, everyone. Mrs. Arrido introduced another proposal concerning the prosecution of the Special World Act, which Mrs. Zulaika has defended today in the name of EH Bidu. First of all, a simple question of this kind has been introduced to Congress in Madrid? Why not? You ask us several times to pass through words to the representatives of other groups and in this case what have you done to abolish this measure of Madrid? We made it clear against the Super-Punishing Employment Program. If we look at them in hemeratically, there will be the speeches and opposition of our representatives in Madrid, which we do. As a matter of fact, I don't see what you can do with the discussion of this other proposition here in the legislature. What conclusion will we draw if we come to an agreement? Will the program cancel? Unfortunately, no. We have expressed our disagreement with the Special Employment Activation Programme launched by the Government of the State as active and passive. The programme aims at a clear electoral return. It is no coincidence that it was approved at the end of 2014 to launch it at the beginning of 2015, with a maximum duration of six months, too close to municipal and out-of-town elections to generate no doubts about its electoral goal. In the meantime, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, Besides the criticism of the program, the Dictate of the Constitution has been decided to represent the former resource, because the program is opposed to our jurisdiction. Within the program to activate Epleua, the economic help of 426 euros is to make it easier to work on long-spending family charges. This scholarship has no other character than unemployment or social security, but is an incentive to promote employment. The management of these helps was transferred in 2010, within the material scope of the jurisdiction of the active employment policy. But without respecting our jurisdictions, the decree of the king gives the maintenance, management, and payment of this administration to the public employment service in the state, and the privilege of confessing or denying the right of persons who can be benefited by it, which ought to be in the hands of the profession. The government of Rajoy continues to favor the centralization of the whole majority, which, without respecting the jurisdiction of the Basques, is in favor of the central government. For all that has been said, we have no trouble with the first point of the basic initiative, and even the middle-class one that we've signed with the Socialist Party has this effect. The third point and the sixth of the media are very similar, as you say, Mrs. Zulaika. But what we do not share at all is the second section of the GNP, whose content is very broad, from the rejection of the economic and social model... We do not believe that the debate of a GNP on a real decree-law of the State is the most appropriate time to debate economic and social models, and from that rejection to the rejection of the existence of the social dialogue table. Our group has always expressed its support for dialogue in all spheres of life and at all institutional levels. We cannot accept the rejection of the mere existence of a table at which the two agents of the employment relationship, business representatives and workers, decide to sit down and try to reach agreements to improve labour relations. We do not understand or share Bildu's position, rejecting his mere existence. Badakit gero azaltzen saiatu zarela, bathe esan hori esaten du zuen ekimenak, behintzat itzulpenak. Alderdi Sozialistarekin onartu of some erdibidekoa was zabala da, eta labor-labur azalduk said Bertan batu ditugun puntu ezberdinak. One, rejection of the working form carried out by the Rajoy government. Two, I reject the temporary nature of the Extraordinary Employment Activation Programme, as well as its conditions and its management. Three, that the aid is compatible with the recovery of aid from the Basque protection system. Ez dugu ulertzen zergatik ez din horrella. Guztiz diskriminatorioa iruditzen zaigu. Why aren't they? The only reason we think about it is economic, but the fact that Euskadi is supportive and has a good social protection system does not mean that if measures are implemented at state level, the unemployed and unemployed in Euskadi who meet the requirements laid down for this purpose must remain outside their coverage. We believe, we insist, that the measure is totally discriminatory, in addition to the fact that its management violates the powers of the Autonomous Community, both with regard to the active employment policies transferred in 2010 and with regard to the management of these policies, which should be carried out in accordance with the system of economic concertation via quotas. Four, support for social dialogue as an effective formula for agreeing on measures between employers and workers to promote job creation. Elkarrizketa beharrezkoa da guretzat bizitzako arlo guztietan. Lan sparruan was, they're half-baked. Five, calls on the Basque Government to promote decent working and wage conditions in the area of its competences. This requires specific clauses in public procurement with private companies. And sixth and last, it calls on the Basque Government to strengthen the Basque social protection system in order to guarantee decent living conditions for the CAV's unemployed and unemployed. As we have said, it agrees with the third point of the fundamental initiative. It was a pity that we could not arrive at a bigger agreement, but in essence we appreciate his vote announced byUPyD, and it's basically clear that most of the legal teams are against this specific program of Rajoy's. And in general...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u99	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u100	... And what has been generally stated in the sphere of business is a great many measures, and a great many points, which are taken in Madrid, and which have been repeated several times over and over again. The agreement between the Social Party and the Social Party has not been possible for the differences around the social conversation. So I'd be grateful to EH Collector to vote for the other points, because he's in favor of that demand more than once, and we hope to vote for a "yes" in accordance with the explanation you've here given for several points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing over the uncorrected teams, representative of the Basque Potula team, Mrs. Llanos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u102	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, of the last things Mrs Arregi said, I didn't understand it that way. He says that all groups in this House, or almost all groups in this House, are against the Employment Activation Programme. I didn't understand that! I understand that some groups voted in favour. But, finally, it will be those groups that will later make it clear. The first thing that is pointed out in the initiative is that we are almost at the end of a legislature of the PP government and that its balance sheet is denouncing. Well, the first thing we want to do from this group is deny the biggest one. We deny the big one. Of course it's been a tough legislature! Although some people don't like us to keep remembering it, but we have to keep remembering it, the inheritance received, with much worse data than those who confessed – and were already bad –, not only made the legislature difficult, but at the beginning it painted it as an absolutely unbearable legislature. And I would like to recall that the first months of the legislature were a constant on whether to ask for a ransom or not, taking into account the situation in which Spain had remained, with what that ransom would have meant. In 2011, when the People's Party legislature began, companies were shut down without interruption, investments disappeared, there were no prospects for growth, and 3,200 people lost their jobs every day... And today, three years later, the situation has been reversed. Confidence and credit have been restored and, above all, employment has begun to be created. We have gone from being Europe's problem to being Europe's example. As we said, we came from a time, the glorious time of Mr Zapatero – which we all remember, and not precisely in a grateful way – whose economic and budgetary policies were supported by you, by the nationalist lords, by partisan interests, and which caused jobs to be destroyed for six years. And it has been hard to reverse this trend, but in 2014 employment has grown by almost 1%, the advance of net employment has reached 442,000 jobs in Spain. That is why, although it is difficult for them to recognize it, the situation of the fall has been reversed thanks to the action of the Government: jobs have been destroyed and, on the contrary, they are being created. 2014 is the first year since the beginning of the crisis in which employment is created and unemployment is reduced. With the December Eurostat data, the latest data recognised today in Spain, there are 156 fewer unemployed than in the first month of the legislature. In addition, one in two jobs that were created in 2014, according to the EPA, is an indefinite job. There are at present more indefinite contracts than in 2011: today three out of four employees have an indefinite contract, and that in three years. As I said, it has gone from being a country on the verge of bankruptcy to becoming an example of recovery in which today other countries of the European Union are being targeted, because it is the country that grows the most in Europe and creates the most jobs. And the forecast is to create more than 500,000 jobs this year alone, and the data from this last month makes us trust that it will be so, and come to the end of the legislature with a million jobs created. And we have achieved sixteen consecutive months of unemployment reduction, and twelve consecutive months of annual growth in the number of members. It is true that not all autonomous communities have evolved in the same way, and of course the Basque Country has not. The other day we had a job meeting between Cantabria and the Basque Country, and there they showed us what the data of Cantabria are. In 2014 it was the community in which the decline in unemployment was greatest; on the contrary, here we were the only community in which this did not happen. And it is that, as we have denounced on many occasions, the Basque Country is not taking the necessary measures to help generate employment. In any case, it should be emphasized that the fundamental thing is that among all (between governments, business organizations and trade unions) we work to create employment, which we also collaborate from the autonomous communities to create employment. In this joint work to create employment, on 29 July the Government of Spain, the Workers' Commissions, UGT, CEOE and Cepyme adopted the agreement on proposals for tripartite negotiations to strengthen economic growth and employment. This agreement reflects the desire to promote measures in different areas to intensify the positive development of the economy and to accelerate the creation of stable and quality jobs. One of the priority initiatives identified in this agreement was the design, in collaboration with the Autonomous Communities, of an activation programme for employment, the content of which will be guidance, training, retraining and/or recognition of work experience. It is in that agreement, and the result of that agreement, that the programme is being developed. The aim of the scheme would be to reintegrate long-term unemployed with family burdens and greater difficulties in placement. Finally, this agreement was agreed on 15 December with the social partners and was designed together with the Autonomous Communities. And it is that this programme obviously needs the commitment and collaboration of the Autonomous Communities and, therefore, also of Euskadi. The programme is a shared responsibility measure, in which the autonomous communities play a key role in the orientation of the unemployed, their needs, their itinerary, as well as the opportunities of the environment. They will also have to monitor developments, because, as has also been said here, seeing developments and seeing what the conclusions of that plan are also important. Unions such as UGT rated the initiative as essential, aimed at encouraging the return to employment of groups more hit by the crisis. In Spain it will benefit 400,000 people, and here in Euskadi more than 9,000 Basque people, who will benefit 4,733 in Gipuzkoa, 2,668 in Bizkaia and 1,678 in Alava. It is true that it is a temporary plan, of which the evaluation will be made later. It is true that I would have liked it to be greater, but one does not cease to be surprised, after hearing debates here today, that the budgetary rigours apply to some and do not apply to others, that the non-unlimited nature of public funds is an argument for some, and yet for others it seems that public resources are absolutely unlimited. The justification for the non-original law proposition makes a series of assertions of thick stroke that the truth is that they are not surprising. They are not surprised what they come from, because we have heard large-scale statements, such as that politics are made for the rich, the absolute injustice of politics, etc. But above all, it is shocking that trade union action is being talked about, and above all it is the double standard of measuring when judging trade union action and trade union agreements. Depends on who the unions are or what trade union agreements are reached, so those agreements are sacrosanct. When other unions or other agreements are reached and do not like them, then union action is totally and absolutely denouncing. That's the double measuring rod that we're so used to. The truth is that this group, whenever employment has been discussed in this House, whenever we have discussed employment measures, we have put the long-term unemployed as one of the collectives, together with women and young people, who must have priority in actions. That is why it is shocking that, when there is a programme that puts one of those groups that must have priority in their point of view, it is absolutely rejected by the Basque Government and the nationalists. But, of course, what are the reasons for the rejection? Well, the same as usual. The same as usual! Today, instead of Erkoreka's Tuesday, we had Mrs Arregi's Thursday. But it's the same: it's the constant allusion to the competitive invasion (from Madrid they get into my skills...). Mr Erkoreka this Tuesday, instead of the complaint, has had the appeal, because, come on, week-recourse, week-recourse, week-recourse, week-complaint..., and then this week he has touched the announcement of the appeal of unconstitutionality against this measure. As there is an inquiry and you yourself have said, Mrs Arregi, this is a matter that is decided in the Government of Spain and that where it must be controlled is in the Congress of Deputies, and there is an inquiry, surely Mrs Báñez will answer properly and give you sufficient data. But what I'm telling you is, really, stop constantly appealing to competencies, and start once and for all to exercise yours, to take steps to grow at least as the rest of Spain is doing. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u103	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the answering round, representative EH Collector, Mrs. Zulaika, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u104	Yes, thank you again, ma'am. Well, in part. Replying to the PNV representative, Mrs Arregi, as to whether we too have denounced this situation in the Congress of Deputies, of course, that we have, too. And to illustrate exactly what is the end of our enterprise, it has two principal ends. The first, of course, is the firm accusation of the PP government in Spain, and the handsomest one is doing. And the second and most important, here to penetrate into our own protection system, to improve, to strengthen, and finally to make our own example. These are the two main objects of our enterprise. PESri eta vous dut PPko ordezkariei was an ezer ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez ez Well, in principle, in the first place, create a system of protection that ensures that all people, simply because they are, can lead a dignified life. That's what needs to be done. And that is why we are also presenting this initiative here, so that we can delve into that system. And then we also want to say that, above all, we also want to denounce not only the People's Party government, but also these two unions, because we do not understand very well how the part representing the social part has made the figure of the collaborator necessary to approve these kinds of programmes. That is, as it has been doing throughout the legislature, the People's Party government, if it wanted to get this out, could have done it alone. So, that's what we don't understand very well, that the union side... without knowing very well or knowing very well how far it has been able to influence or improve that crumb of program or conditions or, ultimately, that royal decree law. Well, I haven't explained what our position is on the first round. As you have said, you have agreed to a medium between PSE and EAJ. In the first place, we believe that in this medium we do not accuse the policy which the PP Government has made. This charge has vanished in this medium, and we openly betrayed it in our proposal. In the second place, at the fourth place, when the law says that it favors the social conversation, as I said on my first round, EH collect is not for the interview that it is doing, at any rate. That's why we don't agree with that, either. And with the 6th point, of course we agree perfectly. He gets the purpose of our enterprise and the principal purpose, and we are quite satisfied with it. From the middle line, as our original initiative will not be accepted, we'll ask if it's possible to vote and in that case, number one and five. in points, we should reject the fourth point, and lastly, the second, the fourth, the fourth, the fourth, the fourth, and the fourth, the fourth, the fourth, and the fourth, the fourth, the fourth, the fourth, the fourth, the fourth, and the fourth, the and we should assent to points six. To conclude, to say, even if we refuse to vote on points, if we admit that point number six, it will be enough to satisfy us. If it does well, we think the situation of thousands of unemployed is actually going to get better. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Ichaso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u106	We said in the first intervention that we are aware that it is not the panacea, it is not the panacea at all, and we recognized the clearly insufficient nature of that agreement and its contents. Moreover, after listening to Mrs Llanos, I have to say that it is even more insufficient, because, as Spain, which is the country of wonders, is doing well, that agreement should have reached greater content. But, you see, in politics almost continuously one has to choose between the greater and the lesser evil. Almost continuously, the decision of the politician is usually not between the good and the bad, but between the bad and the worse. And the question that I am asking you is: between the greater and the lesser evil, as has been said, with regard to racist aid, but to someone to come, what do you choose?, the greater evil, that is, that there is no aid, on the pretext that indeed everything you say about this kind of agreements disguises and makes up situations...? But what do you prefer, the greater evil, or the lesser evil? The lesser evil will be that with all this someone can be a creditor of any of those aids. That is what we think is important, because in the end the political-union commitment is not to gain prestige or glory, but to commit itself, and sometimes even to stain itself, indeed, but to give effect to results that, not being the desired ones, are at least partially results. And, as I say, it is true that, since the march of Spain is so formidable today, those agreements, because... And, as I said, that social dialogue has not ended; that is, that is a continuum. I hope that in future editions, in future agreements, and in view of the fact that things really seem to have such an optimistic horizon, I think it will be much easier for these trade union centres to pull out of the government more fruitful and much more useful agreements for workers' rights. The transaction – I thought I would explain it at this point – has been explained, I do not think it is necessary to repeat it. I ask those groups that have not signed up to it for their support, and of course I thank the Basque Nationalist Party for its willingness to the agreement. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u107	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Mr. Maneiro mustn't speak a word. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg, your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u108	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. Tell Mrs. Zulaika there's no trouble on our side for a vote, and I don't think Mr. Ichaso will have it, do you? But on our side, there's no problem. With regard to the People's Party, Mrs Llanos, the motion on unemployment and unemployment is going to be debated next Thursday, Thursday next week, a questionable motion tabled by her colleague Mr Damborenea. Therefore, we will already have time to discuss it long and stretched out. Today we came to talk about what he has done afterwards, about the Reactivation Programme for Employment, which he has done in the end, but for a while he has been talking about unemployment data, and how well it is done in Spain... But, well, here are the unemployment ratios that exist in the state. And just for... , the truth is that I did not want to go too far on this issue either, but simply tell him that sometimes he forgets the data, uses it in an interesting way, because the data from this last February show the best pace at which employment is being reduced in Euskadi vis-à-vis the State. So, that data, which is positive, you have missed it, and during this long time in which you have been giving data, well, there have been times when Euskadi has been better, but those data you omit them. And that's the way it is, and it's a data from this very week. Therefore, I think it is also fair to say so. Anyway, this is a long career, and I think it's not you anymore and you less, but what we have to do is contribute everyone and finally get the economy back on track, so that the number of unemployed will be reduced. It's also true... You said that the priority of the People's Party was from the beginning the long-term unemployed, and it is true that you have always mentioned it in your speeches, etc., but what is curious is that, having been your priority from the beginning, at the end of the legislature, as the original initiative said, you have launched this measure at the end of December 2014 with effect from January 2015, for a duration of six months, which coincide exactly with the municipal and outlying elections. Well, what do you want me to say? We doubt, we doubt that it does not have that totally electoralist purpose, because it does. And with regard to the last of your points, which spoke of Mr Erkoreka's complaint, of the appeal, on Tuesdays, and which I received today on Thursday from Mrs Arregi, you said, therefore, do not give us any reason to do so. Don't worry, if you don't take over the powers of the Autonomous Community, you won't have any complaints about it, and we won't have to appeal to the Constitutional Court. But as long as you do not comply with your share, do not comply with the law, we do not doubt that every time it is necessary and that you invade the competences of this Autonomous Community we will plant ourselves and use all the means within our reach so that they do not continue to do so. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u110	Good. Mrs Arregi said that she had dedicated me to talking about unemployment data, the evolution of employment data in Spain and the Basque Country, and that we are going to talk about this long and extended, of course. But we had to talk about those data and the evolution of those data for two fundamental reasons. One, because a statement was made in the preposition itself not of law that was not true at all, and another because policies, when and how they are taken, have much to do with the evolution of unemployment data, how Spain was received and how it is at this time. And that's just it. What's so great about it? No, no, No! No! What's so much better, infinitely better than when the legislature started? Of course! But of course it's not going well. From the moment there are people in unemployment, of course it's not going well. Now, that goes infinitely better than when the legislature began, it's not that I say it, it's not that the People's Party says it; it's that everyone says it, it's that Europe says it. It's just that all the indicators say that. That's just it. That's right. What will it cost them to recognize it? Well, look, I understand, I understand that, coming from a...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u111	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u112	...the legislature in which all that was known to be done was to destroy employment, destroy employment and destroy employment, to recognize that there has been a government that has been able to create it cost. But...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u113	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u114	We are talking about the timing of the programmes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u115	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u116	Look, socialists, when you put the Prepare program into effect, the duration was six months, and you were extending it. And the government that has said that until the unemployment rate drops by 20%, that programme is going to be maintained is the government of the People's Party. You guys, for six months. That we could have done it alone? What are we left with? If you don't take care of the social partners and take action alone, bad. If they mess with the social partners, too. What are we left with? Because you speak, but I will tell you (these are not my words, eh!)... "It is a measure that affects our country's structural unemployment, one of the main niches of increasing poverty and inequality. It is therefore a necessary measure that reflects a demand from trade union organisations. The extension of protection to the unemployed has been a proposal from the trade unions for years, which you did not take care of, apparently, when we found that this crisis undermined the effectiveness of the unemployment protection system and the possibilities for workers to return to work. It is a good initiative that must be supported, that its results must be monitored, evaluated, and on the basis of it..." (i.e., after six months of evaluation), "... and on the basis of this taking new decisions. It is also part of the agreement, and the unions are going to demand that evaluation follow-up." These are UGT's words, not mine. Words from UGT, which qualifies it as a good deal. Of course, what happens is that, what is electoralist?, put it in motion, or put it – I am not going to say the phrase, because in the rostrum it is very bad – in parsley broth, which is thinner, but, yes, vote, because, of course, if you don't vote, if you don't vote, that doesn't look good. So, what are we left with? If the disqualifications you made at the Congress of Deputies, scarring, useless, worthless... Why don't you then have the courage to vote against it? Why? Why? What's the electoral thing? What's the electoral thing? Put it in motion, or say, "Let's support it, because it's not good not to support it, but, yes, let's put it, as I say, in parsley broth, it's not going to look like we're saying that a measure taken by the People's Party, by the People's Party government, is a good measure." Well, look, like almost all the measures that this government has been taking since the start of the legislature, which, as I say, had dramatic faces, with the threat of rescue there, like almost all these measures, what it has led to is that the path on which Mr Zapatero was taking us, supported by all of you in all budgets, is changing its course, and, as I say, of being the problem of Europe we have become the example of Europe.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u117	Thank you, Miss Llanos. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of the EHG as a group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 21; contraries, 52; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u118	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, middle-term correction. Do you have any problems voting points? Mr. Sousse, aim of... Yeah. Let's start with 1 and 5, 2, 3, 4. First, 1 and 5, then 2, 3, then 4. Next, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists and the Eucerators, the 1st and 5 points of the middle-correction that has been signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 43; the contrary is 10; the whites are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u119	So the 1st and 5 points have been accepted. Next, we vote two, three, six. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 64; the opponents are 10; the whites are 0.0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u120	So 2, 3, 6 points have been accepted. And, finally, we vote for the fourth point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 43; the opponents are 31; white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u121	So the fourth point is accepted. Third point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by the members of the U.S. Blanca Roncal Azanza, a member of the Socialists, concerning the verdict on the head of the Dermatology hospital in the U.S. University Hospital. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal, Mrs. Roncal, is yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u122	Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today because two weeks ago, in the inquiry we made to the Health Adviser, we failed to understand nor was the Adviser able to give us an explanation of his behaviour in the court that judged the position of Head of Service of Dermatology of HUA.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u123	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u124	Nor did he accept a remedy for the unfair treatment received by an aspirant, who had obtained a better score for the position of head of service, who had to resort to justice to defend his rights, until, in fact, they were finally recognized at the courthouse. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Government has decided not to accept our proposal, as simple as the enforcement of the judgment. A judgment that would have enabled the applicant to resolve and repair immediately the damage already caused in December 2012 to the more meritorious aspirant. This is said by the court that tried the trial and also by the judge in his judgment: that the person who had the most merits to get the head of Dermatology service has been unfairly treated. We very much regret what has happened on this issue, which we have already put before us in question and made the criticism corresponding to the counselor, who, by the way, answered us with the vehemence with which he dispatches everything that we have raised from the opposition. It was necessary for us in the reply to reveal that we already knew – which he also knew – the existence of the sentence so that it would begin to resume its performance. And he did it really forced, because the counselor ended up saying that these things "distract him," and that he has not come to the government for that. It is a pity that Mr Lehendakari is not here, because I wanted to ask him whether he thinks that is correct in a member of his Government, this respect he has for Parliament. Because let us remember that, beyond the court ruling that forces Osakidetza to appoint the head of service whom he had had the best objective consideration, that sentence, that same sentence, denounces a practice that we would like to see banished in that department from today. The judge says this: that of using vague excuses to commit injustices. And this is not a word that I am here recriminating the counselor: the judge says, that the decision of Osakidetza and the counselor was unfair with whom the best result was obtained, and that in this case it had been acted with deviation of power. And it also uses power deviation to pretend to make us believe that selection processes should be paralysed when there is a change of government. Finally, the process was in its final phase, only the elevation to the managing director of the hospital of the selected candidate, precisely the recurring and who had won the sentence. That is why we have asked that the ruling be complied with. Finally, it has been a pity, we have not been able to agree with the group supporting the Government on an agreement that effectively reflected the stated intention, and decided by comment from Osakidetza and from the political leader who is going to bring this matter, that they did not intend to appeal. So, if you are not going to resort to higher instances, why not agree to abide by the judgment? That is why, I say, we have not been able to agree with the group that supports the Government. However, we have been able to agree with the parliamentary group of the PP and the UPyD group, to whom we are grateful from here for the sensitivity they have had and the political will to improve the practice of the Administration. Because I can't help but recognize that something's going on in Osakidetza. Look, today we are discussing the wrong behavior of a counselor, and we are learning that an ex-counsel of the same political party is being withdrawn today from the appointment of head of section of Internal Medicine of Cruces as illegal. Finally, this shows that there is a frankly improveable practice, and that is what we want in this case. As we say, what we want in this case is to overcome the deviation of power, to comply with the judgment, to resolve the unfair treatment given to the applicant, as we say, put and which should have been obtained since December 2012. On the other hand, we have met with an amendment by the EH Bildu Group, whose first point seemed very reasonable to us, but the second one we do not understand. Because, with a judgment deciding which of the two candidates has the best position, we do not believe that it can be resolved through dialogue. I do not believe that there is any selection court that resolves the proceedings by dialogue with the candidates, but by objective assessment of the merits. Therefore, all I have to say is that we have a compromise agreement, as we have said before, between UPyD and the People's Party, which says: First point: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to execute the judgement of the Vitoria-Gasteiz Court of Dispute No. 3 concerning the appointment of the head of the Dermatology Department of the University Hospital of Álava". The second point reads: "Parliament urges the Basque Government, the Health Adviser and Osakidetza to respect always and scrupulously the independence and autonomy of the courts responsible for the selection of places in public health, and to prevent the resubmission and forcing of decisions of the selection courts and the adoption of decisions without grounds or with deviation of power". There is nothing left to ask those groups with whom we have not been able to agree to at least value the possibility of not opposing these proposals. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Passing the corrections to the teams, Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collector, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u126	Good afternoon, everyone. The object of the legislative is to prevent such questions as we are speaking of today. Why are we here? To specify the rules of the game, specify the frames so it doesn't happen. This is our duty, and we should all implicate ourselves in these rules of gambling, or in the time of making nominations, as clear as possible, in order to assure the most assured of all men in this case to be the most proper person in all the districts of the Osalist. Start the managers, the managers, the workers. That's our purpose. General interest in defending it. What are we starting here? One by one Joseba, Jone, Ane, Cristina... , quote everybody's private things? Examination, deliberation, planning? We're not here for that. Of course, when things are done wrong, when there's no respect for gambling rules, we're here to pull the government out of earshots, to tell you, to keep it up and that's what we're here to do. But we cannot here begin to confound the general interest, the rights, duties, and private interests of all the workmen, of all the authorities. Careful. And, of course, we will defend those individuals with a general interest, which is what we are here for. And it really is important that men should be treated without any discrimination, not by their origin, not by their sex, nor by their other properties, not to neglect, and really in all the ways of the system. It is the duty of the public to treat all of them in equality, to consider and be in the proper place, according to the labour which every one does, according to merit. That's what we have to do here. And when that's not guaranteed, you can fix it. That's why we're here. The public system is in order to ensure the equality of choice for all people, whether of workers or of members. What do we want? To provide a quality health service, to guarantee the health rights of the people, and to guarantee the best system to do them. This is our responsibility, without exception and equality. And I want to remark without exception, that all men are equal, in all cases, but in order to choose a chief of service, in order to name it, or in what category and level it is. And it seems to me that we must play here with all our precautions and all our guarantees with all our transparency. That's what we think is a democratic system. We cannot begin here in the process of suicide application, because this will be another, next time it will be contrary to that sentence. It seems to us that this may be a dangerous game for a parliament and a public institution. Therefore one, the general interest, two, all men in equality; three without exception, and persons in the latter, as I have said, without designing their origin, their sex, or whatever they may be, the characters of man. What we have to get out of here is that all the professionals working in Osadeca are the best terms we can get to do their work by quality and well. That's our job, and we should try it. And that's why, even though Mrs. Roncal doesn't understand our point, what we're saying is the problem of repairing it. The sentence applies, but that doesn't mean that the problem at the Universal Hospital in the Araiba will be solved, because even if the sentence has been applied, work relationships will not be normalized. And that's what we need to do a good job and make a normalized job atmosphere, encourage another state of conversation and set conditions for it. And that was our goal. That was our goal and that was why we had two points of correction. One, in any appointment, to guarantee all the transparency in the process, to make it with all its guarantees and exceptions, and to treat all persons with equality. And on the other hand, the problems that are produced and the problems that have arisen in the Universal Hospital of the Araba, the Dermatology, the repairing, the repairing of all the measures required for this purpose, but, of course, you must establish an interview with the people who are involved. One day there's a sentence filled, and things never change. This is a long process, and we ask the government to fix it. We can't go on like this, much less with the public system, especially when there are so many people involved in it, because it's the one that makes the situation smaller, even in the personal position, and so on. That's why we're gonna protect the corrections of all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. The representative of the Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, congressmen. I thought the health department would be here, but it looks like he couldn't be here. We can say that in this case we are clearly faced with a manipulation in a selection process (selekzio-prozedura battan manipulationan aurrean gaudela), and that the intention has been to paralyse the final phase of a selection process in relation to the head of Dermatology department of the University Hospital of Álava. Gobernuaren asmoa izan da selekzio-prozedura geldiaraztea kasu honetan. That is why we say that there has been an intervention in a selection process motivated by political criteria. Intervene polikoengatik izan razones da. Because this intervention in this selection process, in the final phase of the selection process, had a clear intention, which was to prevent the nomination of the aspirant who had obtained more merit. As a result, a resolution was issued declaring the summons of the head of Dermatology department to be deserted. Meritu gehien zeukan algaia ez da izendatu. Behind this interference were political interests. This occurred when there was a change of government, after the last elections, from the Socialist Party to the Basque Nationalist Party. And a change of government can never justify such an action. That is why, we repeat, we are in an all-rule intrusion, which prevented the court from concluding its proceedings, proposing as head of service (chief of service in this case) of the University Hospital of Álava to the person who had already obtained the highest score in the final phase of the selection process. That is why we are talking, ladies and gentlemen, about interference in every rule. The judgement of the Vitoria-Gasteiz Dispute-Administrative Court in this regard is very clear, strong, and speaks of abuse of power. Because what is known is that what was really intended was not to finish the process or name the person who had been selected for having a higher score. Eta sententziak argi utilten from her gehiegikeria boteraren egon. We have therefore witnessed an excess, an intrusion, an interference, concrete, as the judgment says, in an abuse of power. The process cannot be suspended after the selection court has been appointed, and the process has already begun, and in particular at its final stage, the authority cannot, as it has done in this case, influence decision-making and direct its results, as we have also clearly seen in this case. We consider from the Popular Group that an injustice has been committed with the aspirant who had obtained the highest score and who had to have been head of Dermatology department of the University Hospital of Álava. Because there was already a rating, an assessment of the two aspirants, and there was already the highest score obtained by one of them. It was only necessary, ladies and gentlemen, to raise the candidate's proposal which had been most valued, and it was not done. The call was declared deserted. Score gehien zeukan algahaiarekin injustice egin from. The principles of merit, capacity and access to the public service have been violated. That is why we have said that we are faced with a clear interference for political reasons, which has not allowed the person who had obtained the highest qualification for the performance of this specific function to be selected. And, given the constancy and clarity of the judgment of Vitoria's Dispute Tribunal No. 3, only the enforcement of this judgment can be requested and the injustice committed, obviously to the extent possible, be overcome. In this respect, we are submitting an amendment, and I have to say that this amendment has been incorporated, as Mrs Roncal has said, into the compromise amendment, and we will therefore support it. And we clearly called for the first point to be implemented, and at the second point we called on the Basque Government to prevent the resubmission and forcing, as has happened in this case, the decisions of the selection courts. Because in this particular case we have seen how the decision of a selection court was forced in the last phase, when the candidates were already evaluated and there was already an aspirant who had the highest score for having obtained the place, in this case head of Dermatology service of the University Hospital of Álava. We therefore believe that this type of action cannot be carried out, that we are dealing with a clear case of abuse of power, and, in that regard, we also demand a correction from the Basque Government and, of course, that such attitudes and actions cannot be produced, because they cannot be produced, because they are directly in the line of flotation of the principles that must govern any process of public selection, merit, equality, competition, advertising and capacity. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I hope that this amendment will obviously be put to the vote, but not only that, but that it will get – because it will be put to the vote – the support of the rest of the groups. I have to say that I was surprised by the attitude of the EH Bildu group, which says that we can't talk about people, but it is that when there are violations and there are violations, and in this case there is a violation and an injustice that has been committed with a specific person, who had to have been appointed head of Dermatology Service at the University Hospital of Álava, what is to tell the Executive to fix that injustice. Therefore, I do not see the problem in EH Bildu, unless I am given other reasons or obviously obeys other reasons that they cannot ask for the enforcement of a judgment which is clear and which is also very forceful in relation to the deviation of power that has occurred in this particular case. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u129	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u130	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon. How well everything works in Euskadi! There are no rotating doors, no corrupting doors, transparency flourishes, equal opportunities... everything works wonderfully well. Today's news: "They declare it illegal to award the head of Internal Medicine at Cruces to the former Inclán advisor. The judge concludes that the process violated the advertising requirements. The judge who condemns Osakidetza concludes that the process violated the requirements of publicity and competition laid down in the decree itself which regulates the system of provision of jobs in the Basque Health Service, since it has not been published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country nor has it fulfilled the period of fifteen days to submit applications". The issue that Mrs Roncal brings to us today, in our opinion, is the typical case of caciquism and usual infancy in some countries, where there are always certain political parties trying to condition the decisions of the Administration. The councillor and the Basque Nationalist Party wanted to name their candidate, and, as there was another who had more points, they decided to paralyze the process, and eventually they appointed their candidate. This dates back to 2012, when, in the process of integrating the hospitals of Txagorritxu and Santiago, various places are convened for the heads of the new unified services in HUA. In the case of Dermatology the two section chiefs of Txagorritxu and Santiago compete. The change of government is taking place on these dates. The court meets on December 21, 2012, and when it already has a decision to appoint Dr. Almeida, because she has more points, a call is received from Osakidetza to suspend the call. The president of the court obeys the order, but records in the record that the decision to appoint the doctor was already made. The new leadership of Osakidetza is ceasing all the members who formed that court, and almost a year later declares the summons deserted, because it says that the court cannot be formed because there is no quorum. They cheat, trap the members of the court to then declare the summons dismissed for lack of quorum. Months later, the management of the HUA appoints Dr. Gonzalez as Head of Service, as a matter of urgency and on a temporary basis, and on July 9, 2014, there is a new call, which is resolved at the end of September, proposing for the place to that doctor, who, according to all indications, intended the current counselor. But on February 6, a court of the Dispute-Administrative of Vitoria, to which Dr. Almeida had appealed, gives her the reason and annuls the decision in which the square was declared deserted, and agrees that it is this doctor that must be considered for the head of the service. The sentence is blunt and clear, and accuses Osakidetza of deviating power, as has been said here. He considers that the court had already assessed the candidates in 2012, rejects the stay of the trial, and accuses him of having committed a serious injustice with the person selected for the position. This is what the sentence says. We are, therefore, in our view, dealing with a serious case. There may be more cases like this, I'm sure there have been more cases like this. Is it a regular practice? I do not know, if it is a usual practice, but certain injustices have been committed against certain people to favor some. This is the issue we're talking about. Therefore, in our opinion, one of the typical cacicades of the Basque Nationalist Party, and, in fact, the court has called it a power deviation. The rest of the process has been a cluster of actions to reach the appointment of the concrete candidate finally elected and to remove Dr. Almeida, who, by the way, is a person with great prestige in Vitoria. Finally, we agreed with the proposal put forward. What we did was we tabled an addendum amendment, and we have finally signed among all the amending groups, except EH Bildu, this compromise proposal that we have signed and that we are going to vote on. I do not understand the amendment tabled by the EH Bildu Group either, but they will know. We can agree on the first point, but what is in this second point does not seem to make much sense. To ask the Department of Health to open a dialogue with the staff involved in order to solve definitively the problems arising in connection with the appointment of the head of the Dermatology Service, we certainly do not see the slightest sense. Of course, what has to be done is to respect the sentence, to enforce the sentence, and that the violated rights are effectively re-guaranteeed. This is what we are proposing, in short, with that transactional that we have signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u131	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Carro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u132	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good evening to all. In our rule of law, we have established mechanisms of legality that guarantee the separation of powers: the legislative, executive and judicial branches. What does this mean? That Parliament does not need to say that the sentences are enforced, as you ask in your motion, Mrs Roncal. The sentences are always enforced, as it could not be otherwise. In an organization like Osakidetza, with more than 25,000 workers, which serves the health of 2,200,000 Basques and Basques, which opens twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week and 365 days a year, performing thousands of daily actions, because health cannot wait, with more or less pressure (whether I'm going to change positions or not, whether there are OPEs or not, whether there are transfer competitions or not, and all those inherent in labor relations, which are many), what happens? That, as a result of all this activity that is generated in the field of labor relations, it is normal and hygienically democratic that there be some disagreements that end in a judicialization and that it is a different instance to the executive power that dilutes them. That's the power division. We parliamentarians, despite not having any pressure, and loaded with qualifications, are unable to get it right in a vote that consists of pressing a button of three options: a green one to vote in favour, a red one to vote against, and a white one to abstain. Well, well, Mrs Roncal, the case before us today belongs to a situation like this. Not to press the button, but to press the previous one. This model of legality is not only very important, but we must preserve it. Because, Your Honor, this House represents the Legislature, without forgetting, yes, that it also has control over the government. With this, what do I want to say? For, simply, that you are getting into an area that does not belong to you, because the judiciary has sufficient mechanisms to execute the sentences. You are in all your right to exercise your powers, which as part of the Legislative Power belong to you, but you are making a parallel judgment. Today we are talking about a sentence that corrects the call of the head of the Dermatology Service of the University Hospital of Álava. We respect the judicial mechanisms that exist around it. Therefore, Mrs Roncal, as proposer of this initiative, we had asked her to postpone this point and wait for the judge's decision – as we had also informed the complainant, who seemed to agree – but it was not possible, that there is a sentence supplement to see how we could execute it. Mrs Roncal, on the other hand, and I imagine that, contrary to the wishes of the complainant, you place the name of the complainant in the public spotlight in your motion as a result of questioning. For the respect we must have for the professionals of Osakidetza and the sentences, we will not use your name, and you should have done the same. Ms Roncal summarizes that it is all the fault of the counselor, when it comes to a resort to the resolution of a managing director of HUA who declared the hospital's Dermatology Service Chief's position deserted in October 2013, and the rejection of the appeal to raise that resolution of 8 January 2014. Mrs Roncal knows perfectly well, as she acknowledges in the question to the councillor, that this councillor himself had only been in office for five days, and the only thing she conveys to the director of health care is that they let him sit in the chair. Mrs Roncal has the courage to question even the advisor's willingness to cooperate with justice in everything she has asked for. Yes, Mrs. Roncal, the Health Advisor collaborated with the justice system, providing him with all the documentation working in his department on that headship. This is legality, this is ethics, and this is not arbitrariness. But you, in your desire to manipulate and make parallel judgments, in your previous appearance questioned that the counselor had provided the working documentation and had not provided any written instructions. Obviously, because there wasn't. I'll tell you more. Of all the sanitary chiefs convened in Osakidetza, in the same context and with the same instruction, that in which you insist on alluding to the counselor, there was only one suspension, in the call of the Dermatology Service. Therefore, the problem is not in the instruction or order given by the counselor, but in the use that the hospital management made of it. This, what does it mean? As much as you repeat it, that, with the same instruction, the hospital itself, of eight chieftains that at that time had convoked, only in one case acted in that way. The other seven of this hospital, as well as those of all other service organizations, were normally held. And this detail remains in oblivion. Therefore, I should not say this, but if I re-explain it to help us focus the issue better, the adviser has neither intervened nor will intervene in any court or in any supply process, the competence of which is vested in the Osakidetza service organizations. Therefore, first, let us respect the judicial decisions and the mechanisms that are appropriate in the environment of the judicial sphere, because we believe and work for a model of state in which the division of powers strengthens our democracy. Secondly, let us respect confidentiality, not using the names of those professionals in Osakidetza who are immersed in judicial proceedings; let us safeguard their anonymity. And, third, let us work to ensure that, from within our competence, the selection and provision processes in public administrations conform to the principles of equality, capacity, merit and transparency. That is why we will support Bildu's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u133	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. Passing the answers round, Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u134	Mr Carro, the sentences are always enforced, yes, but sometimes, sometimes, Osakidetza, or the body that has been accused, who has lost this sentence, resorts to a second instance, forcing and prolonging the process and maintaining the situation of injustice longer. That is why we have asked for the sentence to be complied with. Not because we believe that Osakidetza is not going to comply, but because we want it to be executed immediately, not to be forced to go to a second instance, which you know is again a matter of years. As I say, not because we think it's not going to be done. And, of course, you tell me that you have delivered everything in writing. Of course! The factual powers have never sent the orders in writing! They're always verbal, the one who's going to be the executioner. And the counselor, recognized by him not only in Parliament with me, in the interpellation, but in court, admits that he telephoned to ask for the court's stay. Of course I didn't have to intervene anymore! The other steps have already been given their seconds and thirds! So don't tell me we've manipulated this place. That is, the counselor did the necessary act to paralyze the court, which was the call. Power of fact. And I'll tell you again, the court says, deviation of power. That is, to use his appointment for different purposes for which he had that appointment. Deviation of power. Don't say we're manipulating here because there's no writing, a written order from the counselor. I didn't have to. That'd be good! Finally, I would like to say again, what we want, and that is why we are calling for the enforcement of the sentence, is that there is no second instance that delays and further aggravates the situation of injustice with which the person responsible for Dermatology has been treated. I must also say that the name of the Head of Dermatology Service is a matter of pure transparency. And you know that the sentences are public, they're not confidential. They're public, and this lady's name comes out because the sentence comes out publicly. And when you do – I'm sure you're going to do it – tomorrow and the chief of service will appear in all the writings and posters of Osakidetza as chief of service. And on the intranet. As far as Bildu is concerned, I have to admit that, of course, who is going to oppose what you propose at the first point? It's absolutely reasonable! And what they say in the second too. But, hey, there's a lack of redress for injustice in the middle. It is impossible to normalize labor relations and make agreements and talk and dialogue if there is no reparation for injustice! And reparation for injustice means compliance with the sentence. Finally, I again thank the groups that have agreed to reach agreement, and, as I say, I hope that Osakidetza will actually execute the sentence, that they will not go to the second instance, and that the solution of the problem will not be delayed any longer. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u136	In truth, I am not at all surprised that some of them should not understand the term conversation, nor what is meant by starting the conversation. I'm not surprised that it's only for Populous Party or UPD, but I think it's a reasonable thing to do all of us first and foremost. I would ask both the Social Party and the Socialist Party today to defend and protect them on the table, to change the organizations or regulations of the Osar, to ensure their accuracy in improving the proceedings, and to protect them. For we have never before seen such an account and protection, when we have made so many proposals, to penetrate into the democratization of Osacy, or to illustrate the rules of the game in order to improve the organization. We'd ask him if all that would help him a lot to avoid any trouble we're talking about today. Not to make names as they are done, and so forth. It seems to me that we all have to reflect on this point. Therefore encourage with the same force you have defended to-day, in this sense, that you work for transparency. We'll go on. We will continue to make different proposals on the table, and in all the stages of the Osament, the chief officials, the other managers, and the plain-workers, do not know that it is the best for all to have the best and best of all, in order that there may be a public health system, and in order to ask the people for their services of quality. Here again, in the Universal Hospital of the Arababa, what you have agreed to by EAJ, Socialists, and PP, you will find out, or you will see what you are doing and how all things are working. And all the problems that result from it. So I think we have a lot to fix and make it better here. And only from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u137	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u138	I know how hard it is to defend certain positions for the EH Collect, don't I? But when the actions are very clear, and here the sentence has made it clear that there has been abuse of power, it is only to condemn and ask for wrong to observe them, but I know that these terms are forbidden to the Combat. That's why at the beginning of my second interference I said that certain positions for the EH Collect are very difficult to defend. And the position you've defended today is not understood, and you know, Mrs. Ubera, you don't understand. And in the end what we have seen today, lately, in the plenary of this House, is that you are saving each other: on the subject of EITB, EH Bildu gives a hand to the Basque Nationalist Party, and vice versa. I mean you're saving each other in some matters, and you'll know why that chrome exchange. Look, Mr Carro, I will speak to you clearly: when the cases are so alarming, so unfair, so clear, that there has been an interference, an intrusion, an intervention for political reasons, for political interests – and that is not what the People's Party says, the sentence says, that I imagine you will have read the sentence when making your speech – you must denounce them and bring them to this Parliament. Of course! When in this Parliament we have talked about matters of the world, matters which had nothing to do with this House and which have led to a pronouncement by this House, how is there not going to take place a ruling by the House in which all Basques are represented in relation to an excess, an intrusion, an interference, an abuse of power, as this ruling has pointed out? I think it's very strong in that conclusion. You are talking here about examples and examples of respect for judicial decisions! You, who are the first...? These gentlemen used to be on the front line, but you're now quite on that front line when you criticise court decisions. Of course, the ones they don't like. But do you speak of respect for judicial decisions? Do you have the hard face to come to this rostrum and come out to this rostrum and talk about respect for judicial decisions? Of course you have to explain! They will also have to explain how the resolution that appointed Inclán as head of Internal Medicine of the Cruces Hospital has also been annulled. Of course! Of course, explanations will have to be given as to why people are not appointed who appear to have higher scores in a selection process and are interfering in the final phase of a selection process so that that person is not appointed, and how it appears that a person is appointed in a decision that has not been legally adjusted and that rights inherent in a selection process, such as transparency and publicity in the call, have been violated – according to another judgement as well –. And, look, I don't know if you have the sentence or have read it, but it's very clear. He says that the judge does not understand how the court, and in particular its president, was influenced by a verbal order which he himself described as absolutely unusual, exceptional, when he was aware that the court which he himself presided over enjoyed independence. That's what the sentence says. He says that he had already pronounced himself for the rating or evaluation of both, being the final score that is contained in the superior record; therefore, it was only possible to raise to the convening body the proposal of the best rated candidate, which is what was not done. And you'll have to explain why it wasn't done. And there was a clear political intention there, and that is why the court understands that there is a deviation of power, and it says clearly: "There is a deviation of power, understood this as a misuse of administrative powers or powers, since what is really intended is not known, but it is known that it was not the end of the process and to name the selected person with better merits." Mr. Car, clearer, water.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u139	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Maneiro... Mr. Maneiro must not speak. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Carro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u140	Thank you, Mr. President. "Look, with that verbal order only in the hospital of HUA eight summonses: October 31st four, November 9th one, November 21st, November 27th, and December 10th, a week before I took possession, the eighth." That's what the counselor said, which he told us in the speech. The November 27 is the dermatologist's. How is it possible that if he's in charge of paralyzing and the only thing he's in charge of is letting him sit in the chair, because it's only been five days...? Because not only are these seven calls in the HUA specifically (because we are talking about HUA), but there are more than 107 calls throughout the central organization. And you want to tell me that from one particular, for a misuse made by that managing director, you're blaming the counselor? Well, as all roads go to Rome, I'm sure it will. Mrs Roncal, we read the sentence, yes, and in the sentence the judge also said that there is no absolute nullity nor full right, as the acting party had requested and as, according to the words of the judge I quote textually, "tardiously made the witness listen and tried to teach the judge". Indeed, because you want to comply with the sentence, Mrs Roncal, the plaintiff, with that supplement of sentence that has been asked of the judge... Because, as you will understand, and I will also read Mrs. Garrido, so that you may see that I have read the sentence... In the last part, the seventh of the judgment, it says: "It would be appropriate to impose the costs on the Administration, but, since we are going to estimate the appeal in part, and due to the disregarded attitude of the appellant herself towards the judge in the final phase, when it came to the conclusion of the appeal and being the appeal declared concluded and for judgment, after two hours and forty-five minutes of the hearing, the actor pretended to be heard...". That is, when a judge is able to establish certain conducts and reprobations, the best and logical thing is to present that supplemental sentence to explain exactly how the taking of office is done, and what he should have done is to have postponed to have given him that opportunity. I should have recognized it here and I should have asked you for forgiveness publicly, because exactly you could have said simply "the head of the Dermatology Service", but you would not have given names and surnames, not even in this motion as a result of interpellation that you have put with the name. And when I told you that we could get to a transaction and that you had talked to the plaintiff's husband, who is the lawyer, and that you told me that you had quite a risquemor with which you had put the name, you were already quite willing to that, in fact, we're going to remove the name. Then acknowledge here and say publicly that you have indeed been wrong, because you do not do it right, and it is not good. And again I read the conclusions, which I believe is the most important: Let us respect the judicial decisions and the mechanisms that apply in the judicial environment, because we believe and work for a model of state in which the division of powers strengthens our democracy; two, let us respect confidentiality, not using the names of those professionals of Osakidetza who are immersed in judicial remedies, let us safeguard their anonymity (here everything is not worth it, Mrs Roncal); let us work so that from our competence the processes of selection and provision of public administrations conform to the principles of equality, capacity, merit and transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u141	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. End of discussion, we're going to vote for the middle-direction signed by Basque Socialists and UPyD and Populars. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 47; white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u142	So the middle-line correction has been rejected. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; the opponents are 47; the opponents are 25; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-05.u143	Therefore, the correction of the EH Collectors has been accepted. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and eighteen.
