ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u0	Good morning, everyone. Remember, the new House Earth has been delegated to the congressman's vote. First point in theme list: "Exquisition of the Institutions and Committee of Compliments of Economy, agriculture, and at the same time over 17/2008 Political Educational Act on the legislation of the law. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to take the word "excusement"? The Basque Socialist has retained two private votes for judgment. To defend his private suffrages at once, the Basque Socialist has the word for the representative of the group. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u1	Egun where you're going. Madam President, Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Group particularly votes in favour of this opinion on the original wording of Articles 70 and 71 of the proposal for a law put forward by the same group in October. Because Articles 70 and 71 of the Socialist Group's original bill aim to incorporate Itsasmendikoi as a whole into the network of integrated vocational training centres of the Department of Education. And that, for the following reasons. First. Because the main objective of these centres is and must be to train professionals in the primary sector in agricultural-food and maritime-fisheries, professionals with direct access to the labour market, i.e. professionals with qualifications or with certificates of professionalism. And the degree or certification of professionalism can only be granted by the Department of Education in the case of degrees and employment in the case of certificates. Not another one, ladies and gentlemen. The Department of Economic Development and Competitiveness can neither hold nor certify professionalism, so everything it prepares, everything it forms, those diplomas it awards... With these diplomas, users will not be able to go directly to the approved labour market; they will have to go back to the Education or Employment windows for training. A very clear duplicity. An inconvenience to the user, when not a very clear fraud. A waste of resources by the public administration. A dysfunction, a waste of time for the student and, of course, an additional expense for the Administration. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of primary sector training is to increase the employability and employability of professionals coming to work in this sector. I'll give you a second reason. All European vocational training, including Basque vocational training, and the rest of the State are working to achieve a single FP legislation, geared in one direction: to achieve a FP system based on a single catalogue of qualifications, in order to ensure at all times the correspondence between professional qualifications and the needs of the labour market. It is a question of configuring the FP as a single system, overcoming the traditional division between regulated initial vocational training and, on the other hand, occupational and continuing vocational training. This is the old look. We look for and work for a new look, a look that integrates Vocational Training into a single system. And Basque legislation was prepared to host Itsasmendikoi as a whole and incorporate it into the network of integrated centres. For this we had already developed a decree (development of the Law of Long Life Learning, the first law of this legislature, on a socialist proposal) to incorporate it into the network of integrated centers, able to coordinate and relate with the different agents, both public and private, and order an integrated system that articulates the FP of the education system and the FP for employment. We lose this if we do not approve the particular vote. Because we also allowed the Department of Economic Development and Competitiveness, competent in the fields of agriculture, food, water and fisheries, and so on, to intervene with its expertise in teaching, collaborating in the practices of students, in guiding the contents of curricular units, in order to require the revision of the catalogue of qualifications. It therefore has a task to address. The opinion put forward today, however, divides the educational offer with a view, from our ancient point of view, to what the rest of the vocational training centres do with the rest of the families, with the rest of the sectors, because it separates, separates the regulated training from the occupational and continuing training, leaving one resident in the Department of Education, as it should, and another in the Department of Economic Development and Competitiveness, as it should not. The Socialist Group's vote will, of course, be in favour of this particular vote, which, if it does not succeed, as has happened in committee, will become a abstention from the opinion of the law. Because, although we have achieved a very important part, it would not have been possible if this initiative had not existed (what is it that the regulated vocational training is resident in Education, that the centres correspond to the competence of Education and the professionals – therefore, this part is indeed achieved)), however, we have work to do and we will not abandon it. Because I believe that in time there will be a conviction of the political forces that today unite their votes to vote for something else, to vote for separation in vocational training in the primary sector, and one day they will also join this position. I therefore announce my group's abstention in this regard, waiting for a better time to come, so that all the objectives which are intended, which will be good for this country, for the citizens of this country, for the professionals in the primary sector, can be approved by this Parliament. Nothing more, and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Anyone wanna be a part of it? No reverse shifts, no response shifts. The discussion is over. [[Pause]] Mrs. López de Ocarariz, there is no subjugate shift, explicación de voto. On the other hand, I'd let you participate in principle, and then there won't be any explicatio de voto. In principle, there is no shift in favour. Maneiro also wants a shift in favor? Oh, I thought so. In principle, there is an explanation of vote. But if you want to take part in the turn in favour, then you would have no explanation of vote. There's no shift in favor. Ez dago. [[Berber]] Andrea ocariz, the time of the private vote defense has run out. But five minutes of the explanation of vote, if you want, I'll give it to you now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u3	With your permission, Madam President. Whenever there is a debate on amendments or individual votes, there must be a turn for and a turn against. Always. Then, in addition to the amendments, in this case particular votes, will be the vote on the proposal for a law or the text that will be law. And then there will be the possibility of an explanation of vote. But the Bureau cannot curtail the possibility of Mrs López de Ocariz participating in all the processes of this legislative action. It would be incomprehensible, come on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u4	Five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u5	Good morning, Mr. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Celaá has made clear the objectives and reasons for the amendment to this bill, which fully coincides with what has already been expressed in this House in the debate on the motion from the People's Group on the future of the agrarian and nautical-fishing formation of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, where this House approved a compromise amendment with 48 votes in favour and 26 against, in which this Parliament urged the Basque Government to place the agrarian and nautical-fishing formation in the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture, making the necessary legal amendments. What we want, ladies and gentlemen, is an agrarian and nautical-fishing formation, both regulated and training for employment, with capitals. Training of equal quality at least than the rest of vocational training. We do not want guardianship, which has usually been done brazenly. We want agricultural training that is of quality and with respect for those who decide to do such training. Not with tutelage and, as Mrs Celaá has said, cheating, because she cannot give the Department of Economic Development and Competitiveness the certificates she gives Education; therefore, we are somehow fooling those who access this type of training. From the People's Group we have not tabled any amendments to the proposal for a law submitted by the Socialist Group because we fully share the objectives set out in this proposal, which, I repeat, are regulated training aimed at qualifications, that its competence and management falls within the department responsible for education of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and that the training for employment aimed at certification and training falls within the department responsible for training for employment of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And we shared the modifications and we shared the proposed articulation. And that is why we support the particular votes that Mrs Celaá has put forward here, because we understand that it is best for agricultural training, for full training. Given the amendments of the other groups, the Basque Nationalist Group maintains its view of leaving everything as it was, how not. EH Bildu proposed non-substantial changes, more nuance and extension of criteria; it did not amend the objectives. In the debate on the amendments, EH Bildu gave way to some of the claims of the Basque Nationalist group, and the PNV has succeeded in ensuring that EH Bildu gives way in part to the objectives of this proposed law, which concerns training for employment, the competence of which was intended to fall within the competence of the department responsible for this matter. A great opportunity is lost to put agricultural training, regular training and training for employment, as I told you, at the same level as the rest of vocational training (industrial training, hospitality and so many others). The specific nature of public integrated vocational training centres, which offer and provide other services such as training for employment, is broken down. The Vocational Training in the Basque Country enjoys a good prestige, which comes from a long time ago and which has demonstrated the good work of the centres, the professionals, all this from the umbrella of education and the interrelationship with the related productive sectors. So what is the fear of the Basque Nationalist Group? The training? No, fear is not formation, that's not your concern. His concern is not to lose the partisan and partisan guardianship he has been exercising in these agrarian and nautical-fishing schools. He's scared, he's vertigo. He doesn't think of any good professionals, he thinks of continuing to mango. And what does EH Bildu do, turning 180 degrees at the last minute? For the time being, allow the PNV to continue to maintain its chiringuitos in part. What Mr. Lazarobaster should explain to us is what is the counterpart: to form part of the chiringuite perhaps, Mr. Lazarobaster? This which he denounced just over a year ago, how has it changed? Mrs. Celaá...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u7	Can you talk to me about herderative, that I don't understand you?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u8	He's running out of time. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u9	Thank you, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u10	On the contrary? We'll go to the vote. The Basque Socialists agree to the special suffrages of the group, which are made for the 1st and 2. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 26; the opponents are 47; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u11	Therefore, two private votes have not been admitted. After this they vote together for the 1st part of the judgment. and the second articles. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments 26.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u12	They are accepted 1. and the second articles. The articles that are without correction in judgment are agreed on, that is to say, from the third to the fifth, an additional regulation, 1, and 2. The last regulations, and the name of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments 26.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u13	They're approved. And therefore it is approved of the Law to change the Law of the Farming, and the Farming Policy, 17/2008. We'll go to the vote. Mr. Maniro mustn't participate. Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u14	Good morning, everyone. I thought I was looking at the legislature's transfer, which was a beginner, that I was a little lost, but even those who have more than one law here, I think they have not very clear how to transfer things. I'd like to say that the subject of agriculture and fishing class has given us a good deal of work in this law. We have discussed more than once, various undertakings have occurred, and the subject seems at last to close up with the legal proposition described by PSE. After all, there have been two attitudes at the base of this subject: I want you to place agriculture in the Board of Education or plant it at the Farm Department. These are the two extremes, and then the other options can be involved. In the EH Collector's opinion, we've seen these schools for many years as one of the most untransparent, unbearably, a locked box. So we've had the attitude of placing these schools in education, in the way that education works, in the contract of personalism, in work conditions, and so on. And besides, the sector intervention is also regulated. On the other hand, and seeing that all the operators who have given their opinion in the first sector have not observed what is well seen to be found in education, we have attempted to seek a wide harmony of differences in this matter. And the search for that agreement was not easy, but finally agreed, it was accomplished. And what has finally been accomplished is very near education-that is to say, all workers, all buildings, the right of prescribed training, all this is to be in the Board of Education, and that would remain in agriculture in the jurisdiction of an irregular training. And furthermore, a site is also determined to ensure the taking of the sector. So we had two extremes, and we may say that it has been very close to education, and that this point has been just about this subject between the operators of agriculture and fishing, and also the common agreement between the unions of professors in the schools. And this is what we have done for, that we have given the preference. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u15	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u16	Mrs López de Ocariz has the right to explain her vote. The processing, according to what it puts in the touch of the plenary, is "Debate of the particular votes. Votes. Explanation of vote." The debate is on individual votes and the explanation of vote is on the whole bill. In any case, it is a defenceless situation created by the Presidency of the Basque Parliament in the organisation of this parliamentary debate. Mrs López de Ocariz has explained her position with regard to the vote put forward and held by the Basque Socialist Group and is now entitled to the explanation of vote with regard to the whole of the opinion, the whole of the proposed law, the whole of the draft law, as you wish to call it. But you are entitled to that explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u17	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. But the debate is the only one, and it's always been that way. Anyone who participates at first has no explanation. Mr. Tellegioía, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u18	Madame President, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. He could be particularly short and poorly. In the name of the Social Socialist Group, the members of Isabel Claá, a member of the legislature, were introduced by the amendment, it was worked, it was cut short, and we're here today to accept a law. This law alters the organic structure of government, and puts it within the portion of the field of education, where the regularity of agriculture and fishing forms, and in the sphere of agriculture, have a right to it; and that is all. But it's not like that, it's a longer story. It all began in 1981 and 1982, when the State transferred the powers in agricultural and fishing training to the Basque Government and it placed them in the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries. And so it worked normally until 1997, when, following the adoption in this Parliament of the first Basque Rural Strategic Plan, the agricultural training was located in the public enterprise Mendikoi, and already in 2006 it was called Itsamendikoi and also the fishing training was transferred, all in the field of the Department of Agriculture and Fisheries. Everything was fine, with logical ups and downs, with a normality that for nothing augurated what was approaching. Already in 2009, in case you don't remember, the Socialist Party was with the Basque Government with the help of the People's Party. Everything continued to be normal until suddenly, in the last year of the legislature, without any sectoral debate and motivated exclusively by motivations of a trade union character, as recognized by the then advisor of the branch, Mrs. Pilar Unzalu, a transcendental change began to occur, not meditated and unjustified. It was admitted in February 2012, by order, that the decree of the government should be changed, and that the forms of the first sector should be introduced into the field of education. And all this, without speaking to anyone, above all, without speaking to those sectors which are the greatest benefit to these forms. The decree of the Government was altered, and they tried to change a functional witness, although it was as a place, the law of agriculture and of nutriment. If the basis of the decision was not one thought beyond the joy of the unions, it was a Juridically flat against the law. As a demonstration of the fact that the matter had no ground for argument, the decrees confirming the transfer of jurisdiction and amending the structures of the relevant departments were adopted at the meeting of the Donostia Governing Council on 21 August 2012, and, if the date does not ring a bell, I will remind you that the elections that took place in this current Parliament were convened in that same Governing Council. On the last day, at the last hour, hurry and run and jump to the bullfighter, with a decree, a provision with rank of law. It was a botepronto, a "fine fit" with some union, that the issue did not even appear on the Socialist Party's agenda and less on that of the People's Party, its partner, who had recently supported the Act on Agricultural and Food Policy, which consolidated training in the area of agriculture, and is therefore supposed to collaborate with what comes to be called the mangoneo. From that point on, very little: a few debates at the committee and at the meeting. And when we have introduced the legal proposition, which is the only way in which the subject is concerned, we have proposed corrections, and have agreed, and have come together to a middle-way text, and we, that is to say, agreeing, and in a great measure accepting the original proposition. This proposal is partial. We accept reality, and there is also a defense of specialization under the Department of Farm Farming, in order to obtain carnets and titles at once, or learn new technology. And in consequence of all that, I'm sure he'll have a much bigger relationship with sector interests. Only since the pact, the agreement, the conversation with the affected sectors and a dose of democracy can progress in areas that continue to be consolidated in the administrative framework. Only from an agreement is progress made, and not from a unilateral decree, outside the sector and in the last Governing Council. In the debate that we have had with this law (by the way, Itsasmendikoi no longer exists at all), more than the representative of the Socialist Parliamentary Group seemed at times to have had the former Education Councilwoman of the Government, committed to holding that that decision in extremis was the meditated, the correct and the sensible. Well, no. Have you heard of the agricultural sector? She may like it less or she may not consider it hers, but it has been more negotiated between groups and more worked. Legally it is more viable, the sector has participated in the debate, and not only the workers' unions, and it has more parliamentary majority than the one that might have defended that last-minute decree. This is less yours, but it's also less mine, and it's less of the rest of the groups. But it's a bit of everyone, and that, almost certainly, is better. Psychologist Gustave Le Bon has already said: "Governance is pacting, and pacting is not giving in." I would make it clear to you that we have helped to govern and you did not want to give in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u19	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Second point on the subject list: "Euscal Socialists have a legal proposition made by the legislatures, an electronic communication company's service as a film film and a tax to promote visual support. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we'll go straight to the discussion without having to read it. On the side shift, who wants to participate? Side shift? What do you mean, "a favor"? Reyes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. The Socialist Group is presenting today a proposal for a law to help the Basque audiovisual sector, which for years has led to a decline aggravated by piracy of its products. That is why we believe that the small tax that we intend to impose on telephone operators is an act of justice that returns to the film and audiovisual production sector some of the costs of their work so that they can continue to produce. Ultimately, it is an aid of justice and fundamental to the survival of the sector and the guarantee that the right to culture in this area is fulfilled. I have to say that this initiative has the support of producers and also of workers in this sector (chambers, actors, electricians, writers, etc.), professionals with increasingly precarious jobs, who have no choice but to accept it because this activity is badly hit by the crisis and by the abandonment of the administration. It is true that many other sectors have problems in this time of crisis, but in the case of audiovisual production a direct tax measure is needed as a return of what it loses for free downloads. This initiative is aimed at strengthening Basque film and audiovisual production without detracting from public budgets or taxing consumers, financing it from the sector itself. There is no activity that I can afford to invest without getting a reasonable return to continue investing. And the case is that the benefits of their work go to telephone operators who offer ever wider bands for the transmission of data, for which the production of the film and audiovisual industry circulates free for the consumer. So this industry is being hit by a perfect storm. On the one hand, the government reduces its aid to the sector, ETB reduces its procurement of external products, VAT on culture is the highest in Europe and telephone operators facilitate the free download of productions, so they increase their contracts, but the audiovisual industry crumbles. See to what extent this is so that the support for the creation, development and audiovisual production of the Basque Government has been reduced to less than half of the last parliamentary term to this one, namely in 2014, by 54.5%. And in the wake of what matters to the Department of Culture in this sector, it has eliminated in this legislature the Audiovisual Financing Programme, thus closing the line of loans without interest in the production and the financing of contracts. And they just eliminated him, without replacing him with anything in the middle of the crisis. To remedy this, the Socialist Group proposed a non-legislative proposal for the financing of cultural industries, which was adopted with the votes of, among others, the PNV. And yet the Government has not applied it for two years. Similar occurs with ETB. The government subsidy has decreased by about a quarter since the last legislature and yet ETB expenditure on commission production has fallen to more than half (52 per cent). And, in this context, the Basque Government has issued a criterion contrary to the treatment of this proposal of law, forgetting that without independent production no new actors, no technicians, no directors, no new professionals will be able to start in the film industry, and without recognizing the strategic value of self-interest as a generator of cultural values and a creator of talent. Well, the Socialists do consider it very important to have a strong Basque film and audiovisual sector. And that's why we put forward a proposal for a law that would mean, if approved, a fair compensation for his work, which now does not receive, as I said, for the free download of his productions. With regard to the content of the law, we propose to approve a tax on telephone operators, not users, of 25 cents per month for each fixed or mobile telephone contract allowing access to Internet content. We believe it is a question of justice, not special treatment for a sector. We do not propose, under any circumstances, to use finalist taxes for each sector in difficulty; only for this and in this case, because free downloads prevent them from charging something reasonable for what they have had to invest to create and produce the films. In short, we intend that it is the telephone companies that pay a very small part of their profits for ADSL connections and mobile data, in order to finance audiovisual production with this money without being able to pass it on to their customers. In addition, the adoption of this law would mean exercising a jurisdiction that, on the basis of not using it, many believe that it does not exist, and it is the power of Parliament to establish autonomous taxes and the Government to enforce them. This faculty is a top-level political instrument, which allows the Government to implement an identical fiscal policy in the three territories, giving a unique treatment to the funds that are obtained. But it's not used. As for the funds to be obtained, which, in the light of Catalan experience, would be of the order of EUR 7 million, would be used to forcefully boost the development of the Basque film and audiovisual industry. However, the Government has decided to reject the processing of this bill. And it would be legitimate if he had substantial reasons to do so, but it is surprising that he has issued such a harsh, low-quality technical and aggressive approach to his expression. It gives the impression that the Government has intended to compensate for its argumental weakness with occurrences and excesses taken out of tone. I'll give you an example. When the government states that the finalist character of this tax, and I quote textually, "is unusual and unique in our country's fiscal policy", it is lacking in the truth, because in 2006, governing the lehendakari Ibarretxe, this Parliament approved the water tax with the votes of the PNV. How can the government say, then, that there is no finalist tax if it is managed by URA, the water agency of the government itself? And it states this in writing to Parliament, in an approach adopted by the Governing Council and as a valuable argument to justify opposition to a proposal for a law. It sounds amazing if it wasn't true. The Government has sent us an official letter that ignores our legal system and the taxes that the Government itself enforces. It reflects the legal and management insolvency of this very worrying Government. And the tone of their observations can only be due to the nervousness of a government that has to see how the opposition has to cover its legislative inoperation. Another question is whether or not we are competent for this charge to telephone operators, and the Government understands that from this proposal, and I quote also textually, "a probable inadequacy could be deduced from the division of powers provided for in Article 42b of the Statute". For it turns out that this article, 42.b of the Statute, when talking about how the revenue of the General Finance of the Basque Country will be constituted, after talking about the deputies, who have another way, says: "The returns of the taxes own of the Autonomous Community established by the Basque Parliament, in accordance with article 57 of the Constitution and in the LOFCA" will be part of the revenue of the General Finance of the Basque Country. That is to say, this Parliament has jurisdiction, by law (if there were no examples to prove it already, here it would be), to impose taxes, to define them, for the execution of them by the Basque Government for the General Treasury of the Basque Country. In case someone comes out saying that this is interpretable, I would like to recall that a law signed by the lehendakari José Antonio Ardanza, referring to the game, in his explanatory statement – I suppose this will not be questioned by anyone, at least from the PNV bench – says that "the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country, as well as the Law on Relations between the Institutions of the Autonomous Community and the Foral Bodies of their Historical Territories, and the Legislative Decree approving the legal provisions on the Authorising Principles of the General Finance of the Basque Country", that is, all our legal framework, everything – and says it a law signed by the lehendakari Ardanza – "grant the General Finance of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country the power to establish its own taxes provided they do not fall on taxable acts taxed by the State". Of course. How is it possible for the Government to say that this bill may not be in compliance with the Statute of Self-Government in our legal system? I have contained myself in the expression, but I wanted to be very clear about what the Government has done to this Parliament in this way. In the end, it is clear that we are competent, that nothing is violated, but in the background this is much more serious. With its appreciation, the Government is renouncing its competence under the Statute, which we have already exercised. So, if in the future I wanted to introduce another tax, with this criterion I would not be able to handle. The Socialists think this is very serious. It is an absolute contradiction of this Government that demands competences and at the same time renounces those it has, especially in something as important as passing taxes. The Government also argues that the finalist nature of the operator tax prevents its collection from being added to the common fund for distribution in the budget. Of course, it is a finalist, because it must serve to compensate the sector for the use of audiovisual content, which, when used free of charge, does not revert to the sector, seriously damaging its financing and viability as a cultural industry. And it will not be so rare when it has been approved in Catalonia, on a finalist basis, with the support of all groups, except that of the People's Party, which abstained but did not object. The Government's next objection is that this measure does not correspond to the Basque tax model. But how is it not going to fit our taxation if it is protected by the Statute, as I have just read, all our laws relating to the farm system and another finalist tax (the water or the fire tax) has been approved by the Basque Parliament? Did Parliament approve it without being competent? Is that not our legal order? With regard to the last paragraph of the Government's view, it simply seems like the release of a goat, which has no justification. I invite you to read it. But rather than be angry, this Government should make laws to solve problems, because, if not, it will continue to happen to them as in this case, that the laws proposed by the opposition. Look, the Basque producers talked more than two years ago with the Department of Culture, which said he liked the idea of this tax. And after two years, they still don't do anything. If they had decided not to apply this measure, at least they could have sought another to help the sector, which is the main thing, which is of interest. But since they don't, we do. As the government failed to act, the two Basque producer associations spoke to me a year ago to propose this measure. Then the same was approved in Catalonia, almost unanimously, as he said. And finally, the Socialists have decided to take this initiative because the sector can't take it anymore. I would just like to end by expressing respect for the decision taken by the groups, which I will then comment on, but to announce that anyone who agrees with the aid to the sector and that taxation can do so must understand that the legislative proposals are always presented with a text and then in the process, through amendments, they can be modified if there is something that is better or that leads to the consensus of all. And finally, I will tell the government – more than just tell it, demand it – to defend the Statute, not to deny the competence it gives it. That, to begin with and to end, this Government, which defends the Statute.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u21	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. The reverse round. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u22	Thank you very much, Madam President. We cannot, of course, support this proposal to create this tax for many reasons. But I will tell you that I do not agree with the initial presentation you made today, telling us that this is to compensate for the piracy that exists. It is that to compensate for piracy – and it was a socialist government that did it – the digital canon was made, and the digital canon, only in some photocopiers, amounts to more than 200 euros for each photocopier. Not to mention all the media of all kinds where the digital canon is paid. Theoretically, piracy was compensated by that, and, in fact, the societies of authors have raised a lot of money with that. Then how it arrives or how it does not arrive, everyone will know how to distribute it. But, going directly to the text that you have presented to us, which is called "tax on the provision of content by providers of electronic communications services", we have to tell you that it already exists. When you said that this Parliament has the power to create new taxes as long as the taxable fact is not taxed, we have to tell you that this taxable fact is taxed. And it is taxed to the supposed operators, moreover, as taxable persons of the tax. And it is taxed by another socialist government, by Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's, in various laws. But I just want to tell you one thing. A couple of years ago a PwC report was published in the communications sector on why in Spain the price of Internet connection is more expensive than in the rest of Europe, why the band is not as wide as in the rest of Europe. And, surprisingly, they came to the conclusion that in Spain a tax burden – two years ago – of 3,4, in the United Kingdom of 0,7 and in Germany of 0,4 is borne. And you are coming to propose us here now that we increase that burden a little further by connecting all of us here, including Parliament, to the Internet. This Parliament and the Members of Parliament would have to pay this fee because we are supposed to go down pirate films from the network and then we have to compensate certain sectors. I will tell you that the Catalan law that you have shot and brought us here was approved with the vote against the report of the Catalan Labour, Economic and Social Council itself. I mean for comment. And the People's Party abstained in the final vote, which was already adopted, because the People's Party tabled an amendment to return and voted against the consideration of that bill. And this tax, you call it what you call it, in the end what it charges is the Internet connection of private people and businesses. In fact, when I told him why Catalans, who have an inventive lately curious when it comes to inventing themselves (a month two new taxes are invented)... I don't know if that's called innovation or lack of money and you have to get money from anywhere and whatever. But why does Catalan law say that the taxable person is not the telecommunications companies, but the citizens? Because that state law of yours already says that passive subjects are the telecommunications companies, which are the ones that are obliged to pay. So, so that it's not literally the same tax, they change the passive subject. And you do the same. It tells us that it's us, the citizens, and the private companies that have any kind of Internet connection. And so they think that this double taxation thing we skip, because now it's paid by others. But then it turns out it's not true, because you guys to keep doing... You copy a Catalan trap on which – they will see – the resources of companies, central government and the whole world are already announced. And I want to tell you that it was approved last December and the collection today is zero and I think it will remain zero for a long time. You know and I know and we all know that the digital canon, any tax that taxes not the profit of the company, but the cost of the company, we pay the citizens. And you don't propose a tax that says to certain companies, "I'm going to charge these companies a 20% surcharge." No, no, You pose a tax that goes to the operating account as a more business expense and that, as a more business expense, is offset by the income of those businesses, because they obviously have to have profits, because, if not, they would shut down, fire people, and I guess nobody agrees with that. Therefore, in the end we were going to pay for it too, even if you say that the passive subject is the citizen. The obligation to pay is the company. The company will never pay when you put one more expense into the operating account, it is one more expense. The General Audiovisual Law: 5% of the revenue to finance audiovisual productions to these companies. The Law on the financing of Radio and Television (the two of the Socialist Party, of Rodríguez Zapatero: one of 2009 and the other of 2010): 0.9% of the revenues to the same companies and for the same purpose as we are proposed here today, promotion of the audiovisual sector. So, on the one hand, we have the digital canon; on the other hand, the two state laws. On the other hand, I have to admit that it has already been successful, because yesterday the department's aid order for the sector itself was published in the Official Gazette, so that the audiovisual sector can already benefit from the aid before other times this year. That success is already recognized today by the Government itself, which already published in the Bulletin yesterday the specific aid decree of the Basque Government department itself. But it is also that, like all companies in this country, whatever sector they are, they have the possibility to benefit from all the aid and programmes of all kinds that the Government has, that they have the deputies and that they have the municipalities. I am not going to deny to you that it is a very important sector, but as important as everyone else, and no one proposes to create specific taxes to finance specific private industrial sectors, and less so at the expense of the general public, all of us, paying a burden even if we do not use it. And this is the question we would have to ask ourselves: why do citizens have to pay the same again for the same thing, which we already carry, since the digital canon was invented to the laws that I have quoted and this new autonomic novelty, which perhaps extends or does not extend... But I also have to tell you one thing: I have not seen that your party in any community in Spain has raised this tax, in any one. Neither have they been ruling in the last legislature, nor have I seen it appear on their agenda for absolutely nothing. And I, in short, for all these reasons, including that we would have capacity, yes, but as long as it did not exist and the taxable fact was not already taxed... And I'm telling you, it's not that it's engraved, it's re-recorded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña, your word is yours. MARI-REERBERTY, Mr. IBARERAL: Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. I won't repeat so many arguments from the previous spokesman. First, I'll make some statements. The industry of the spectator industry requires a public means of financing, and will henceforth remain as it is in Europe. The industry of the visible must have great variations in order to give the proper answer to the modification which has occurred in its sphere of work. The object of more stable refinement is to be able to resist the new state, and not to maintain its former state. Basque filmmakers have a talent for years. The filmmakers of Basques have made a remarkable place in the Spanish industry. The films made in the Euskex are beginning to echo internationally. It is in full transformation that the sector of visual perception and the means of recovery in this transformation are essential. We confess that too. Having said that, let us see whether the proposal we are debating today is adequate to achieve the desired objectives. The characteristic of the finalist taxes is the modification of behaviors or the internalization of the cost they entail. In this sense, a tax is not understood which, without contributing to a comprehensive policy ordered by the Legislative through general regulations, only provides grant funds in isolation and away from general public purposes to be achieved in a given sector. One of the principles of public action in the matter of the Basque Country's hacienda is that of cash unit. The budgetary appropriations are established on the basis of budgetary priorities. To revulnerate this principle would eventually cause insolidity. In this case, the favoured sector has the same financial difficulty conditions as other sectors without affected income. And, in the proposal, the only justification offered is an opinion consisting of free enrichment at the expense of content creators. It seems to us, quite clearly, insufficient to justify the finalist affection. There is no doubt that the Basque Autonomous Community can impose taxes through this Parliament, although within the framework of logic, that is to say, as an autonomous community of common system, so it must be completely justified in the autonomous sense, both from the collectional point of view and from the taxable fact which is subject to taxation – I am not going to repeat what has already been said. It must be alien to the Economic Concert. And in neither of the two aspects I have just pointed out is it fully justified that we are facing a LOFCA tax; on the contrary, it can be said that, as it is proposed, it is not a LOFCA tax. Therefore, the Basque Government does not give up any competition, as Mr Reyes has said, and it does violate the Basque tax system in that sense. Therefore, I am not interpreting the article you were saying about the Statute, but I am telling you how I interpret the proposition you have made (which does not justify it, on the other hand). There is no cost-benefit analysis. And, in our view, and bearing in mind that it modifies the general tax structure of Euskadi, it generates a series of risks that cannot be absorbed by such a proposal taken by the threads. The sectoral and tax duality that arises could have a greater logic if a public policy were first designed and then guaranteed funding was allocated, which in no way has to be through finalist revenues. In the case we're dealing with, you do it the other way around, the other way around. With regard to the creation of a number of sector-specific funds, they should be regulated in ad hoc rules with a legal status, both of a substantive and budgetary nature. The opposite is insecure, incomplete and negative, both for the sector and for taxable persons of the tax. The previous spokesman has also abounded on the subject. Finally, I would like to say that the tax passed on this subject in Catalonia, Law 15/2014, has an open dispute with the State regarding the competition for its dictate and levy. Overlaps are brought with VAT and IAE. The Catalan initiative aims to guarantee part of the necessary funding to the Catalan audiovisual model established by law (Law 20/2010, of cinema, of Catalonia), unlike the proposal we are debating, which is not part of a general fiscal policy, nor of any sectoral and substantive policy. For its part, the European Commission considers, according to statements by the Commissioner for Digital Economy, that the tax on ADSL in Catalonia to finance the audiovisual sector could have adverse effects on investment in infrastructure and the competitiveness of telecommunications companies, and result in higher prices for customers. At this point, I have limited myself to trying to answer some of the manifestations that you have made. And if you have any other questions, we'll see you in the replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u24	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u25	Thank you, Madam President. I thank Mr Arieta-Araunabeña for the tone he has used, which corresponds, I believe, with mine, that I have been strong about the government's writing, because it is entrepreneurship, but the argument seems to me to have been very worthy. However, your speech, Mr Arieta-Araunabeño, indicates something clearly. When there is a government and a group that supports it, and there comes a formal government approach, approved by the Governing Council, to this House and the group that supports it does not defend it to death (in this case or has not defended it), this indicates that it is not of much value, that the group itself has then reviewed it, analysed it and sees that it has no reason to support what I have criticized in the previous intervention. This seems to me to be fundamental in what we are dealing with, because if the Government's approach were not unfavourable, you would perhaps be talking to my group, talking to me, and we could see how the process of proposing legislation in Parliament should be carried out in order, as always, to agree or not to deal with matters. Because that's the point. It is being denied without substantial substantive arguments in the Government's view, which falls legally (as far as its assessments are concerned, it is infumable), and it is being denied the processing in which the finalist character – I say this to all groups – could be quashed, the form of collection, who does it or not; in short, what is a parliamentary procedure. For what reason, if it is true that the sector is asking for it, if it is something concrete, if there are precedents for finalist taxes in the Community, is processing denied? I think it's just that the government has reacted viscerally to a proposal that the sector's associations have been dealing with for two years, and they've been missing out without moving forward. And when this group brings it, supported by the whole sector, by associations of all colors, very firmly, as you know, it simply issues a criterion to reject it, simply, with arguments that are not welcome. And one of the arguments of the Government's approach directly attacks the competence of that Government and denies what the Statute says. And that's very serious. And it does not know the taxes passed in this Community in times of PNV government, with a parliamentary majority, signed by nationalist lehendakaris. It's very serious. And that's the main thing, I think, that we're seeing here. Then you say that the Basque audiovisual industry has the same problems as the rest of the industry. Of course, there is crisis, it affects everyone; they also have the problem of cultural VAT, which is due to the Government of the People's Party, to the insensitivity of the cultural party (forgive it, not culture, I did not want to offend), of the People's Party, to its detachment from culture. But it also has a problem, which is not a free personal observation; it is a fact that can be seen in all the forums in which this issue is being dealt with. It is that free downloads, while that is not fixed, are an added factor that to a sector like Basque audiovisual, atomized, small, harms him even more and has him against the strings. And that means Basque cultural production. And it means all the workers; not only those who have lost their jobs, but those who are working in a precarious situation. And you say, Mr Damborenea, Mr Arieta-Araunabeña, more or less, that the administration will come, that somehow it will continue to support this sector. Mr Damborenea, with the intensity he intends to support the Government's position today, said that an order came out yesterday that guarantees funding. Man, that order comes out every year; only from the legislature passed to this one comes out with half the money. This year too: it came out with 1.8 million. And we are talking about that in 2010, in 2011, that order came out with more than 3 million. We are not talking about the administration not pulling out subsidy calls, look at the papers; we are talking about financing much less a sector that is suffering and has no response capacity and is also hit by other issues. That's what we're talking about. And for that reason, the interest right now in moving this forward for this sector. That matter could be dealt with in the parliamentary procedure, but it was not intended, because it simply wants to deny the procedure. There is a matter, that of double taxation, which has also appeared, that I would handle with care. To begin with, it is not true that the Spanish Government has brought an appeal. That's not true. There is a commission set up between the Government of Catalonia – and if not, I teach you the resolution – and the Government of Spain, which is dealing with the matter. And then he'll take it to the Constitutional or not, and when he does, we'll see what happens. Because to say that VAT or IAE can assume, because they already exist, a double taxation, man, is a toast to the sun. Because that, then, is double taxation for everything, because VAT affects practically everything. I think they're willing to resort to more than anything else. But with regard to what they say that the taxable person is already taxed, for example, because they have to allocate televisions operating 5% or 6%, depending on whether they are private or public, to European film production, do you know that this is not a tax? A tax is when the Treasury taxes something established by a law and takes it away to dedicate it to something else. But that's not what happens. When ETB and Telecinco produce, under that money, that obligation to invest, Eight Basque surnames, they are not giving away that money, they are not losing it. They are, in this case, for example, obtaining a huge benefit. Or when they buy the allowances with that money they have an obligation to invest, the Treasury isn't taking it off. With these allowances they issue European films, in which the advertising accompanying them is for them. Where is double taxation if it is not a tax? It's a profit, it's an investment, only forced. What about the 0.9% they have said that operators have to contribute to Spanish Radio and Television? Man, I thought you knew that, because if you didn't, Mr. Damborenea couldn't bring it up as an argument. It's just that they do it because Spanish Television decided to take out advertising. And since that is a benefit for the rest of the agents, for the rest of the operators who are going to increase their advertising revenues, then they necessarily allocate 0.9% to compensate for that loss of television. But that is not a tax, much less the taxable fact that we are talking about today. There's no taxable fact like that. And let me say that, if others do not, or have done so by the Catalans, I propose to do so, with arguments, because of the need of the Basque sector, which they want and can reason with. And he was willing, if the bill were to be taken into consideration, to discuss it in the process. But with arguments without acquittal and quite general, what is simply wanted is that this does not go forward. And, I keep saying, I care about it, with a smoky government approach. There's something else I have left. I think I've answered practically everything and I'm sorry I didn't have a reply later to clarify the things that can be said. Simply add that I and the Socialist Group do not like finalist taxes in general either. Of course, the Treasury has to establish from these revenues an expenditure according to general policies, each year and in Parliament, on a proposal from the Government. Of course, no doubt. We are talking about an exceptional issue, for a very justified specific reason, for a very weak Basque sector which can be done. We're talking about that, not anything else. And, Mr Arieta-Araunabeña, in the doctrine – I have been worried about looking at enough – the finalist taxes can be for anything that repairs a situation that is understood to have to be repaired by fiscal policy, and that's it. And that, if Parliament approves it, there it goes. Then you can understand whether or not that is subject to tax relief. But you can, that's for sure, there's no contraindication. And with regard to the highest prices we talked about. This bill obliges those who provide services (ADSL, mobile phone) to pay the 25 cents that are intended to be imposed. They don't have to go to the consumer, because there is a Basque Competition Authority that can be used...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u26	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u27	Yes, I'm done, President. ...and you have to be alert. And I do not see very clearly that to contracts that are specifically from Euskadi, for natural or legal persons based in Euskadi, they can be increased, without notice, what is charged in Extremadura or Madrid by the same contract by general operators such as Telefónica, such as Ono... I don't see it so clearly. It also seems to me to be an argument that is not strong.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u28	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u29	Mr. Reyes, when I told you about double taxation, I didn't tell you about VAT or the IAE or any of that. You started saying this was because there was fraud and stuff. I've told you about the digital canon, I've told you about Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero's General Audiovisual Communication Act, and I've told you about the Spanish Radio and Television Corporation's Financing Act. I'm going to read you a little quick what you put in your article 5: "Contribution to be made by telecommunications operators...", calculated on their gross revenues (the same as you put forward here): "It will result in the payment being made by those listed in the Registrar of Operators of the Telecommunications Market Commission", the same ones that you say here that they are obliged, but not, that we are citizens because the taxable person... Here the passive subject are these; in his proposal it is us, yes. Why? Fixed telephone service, mobile telephone service, Internet access provider. Same thing. Yes, yes, the same fact. And it's a law of yours. When I talk to you about double taxation, I talk about this. This that you ask to be etched, one, is already etched. The passive subject are the ones you say here that they are the ones that have to be, but no; because, if not, it would be the same, it would be so literal that, of course, it would not have a pass. I'll tell you what I understand when I read here literally what it says. And when I see that those who are obliged to pay are the same, that the taxable fact is the same and that what is charged is 0.9%, what do you want me to say? Well, white and bottled... In Catalans this time, innovation has also not reached that level. You tell me that we can arrange these things in the course of amendments. Look, in the process of amendments I cannot invent a taxable fact in a tax. I'll be able to tell you if I think it's necessary to get it up, get it down. How am I supposed to invent the fact? Or the passive subject? That's the abecé of a tax. An amendment to a tax is on other parts of the tax: if you raise more, if you put less, if there are bonuses. But the fact that it is taxed and who is the taxable person... I am not going to invent a taxable fact, either for this sector or for any sector. Then he tells us about cultural VAT. In this regard, it must be said that it has been a success. Never in any year in the history of Spain, nor of the Basque Country, nor of Catalonia, nor of any place have film producers earned so much money, nor have so many tickets sold in the cinemas, nor so many tickets in the theaters, because that VAT is paid by the citizens, they do not pay it, okay? Well, we've never been so much to the movies and we've never been so much to the theater. So, what do you want me to say? And it seems to you that cultural VAT is very... What about the car tax? The one that's taxing the automotive sector? Why does an industrial sector have to have a different VAT than another industrial sector? Why? Someone would have to give some explanation. Which doesn't mean I'm in favour of not lowering that tax. But not just that sector, let's see if you understand me: everyone. Why? Because I am sure that companies will be more profitable and will sell more, because the price of the product is lowered, but of all the products of all companies. And you tell me that I support the government there. I do not support the Government here; I am voting against an initiative of yours, not of the Government. And that is because I do not agree, as I have said, neither in the concept, nor in the argument, nor in the form. And, of course, I am not here to invent myself a passive subject through amendments in the subsequent procedure, nor a new taxable fact to invent a tax. What I want to say to you is that, when I look at it, I believe that this sector which you say is so disadvantaged as an industrial sector, in addition to benefiting from all the aid from all the departments of the whole government, has specific aid that others do not have. I do not know any specific support for the production of any other industrial sector in this country, nor agriculture. I have recognized you before that, thanks to your initiative, the order with aid for the sector has already been published, I have said that before other times. What's smaller? That you want me to be older? I make a proposal to you: when the budget of the Basque Government comes, make an amendment to that item and ask for it to be raised.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u30	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. To answer, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña, your word is yours. MARI-REERBERTY, Mr. IBARERAL: Thank you. Mr Reyes, you have not refuted my arguments, and my arguments have been against the consideration. You have merely said that I have not defended the Government's view and have not responded to other issues that are absolutely key, such as, for example, when I asked you that it is not a LOFCA tax, and this is an absolutely key issue for everything else. As to whether or not to defend the Government's view, what I have done to you is a correct reading of the Government's view of an incorrect interpretation that I believe you have made. So clear, just like that. Of course I have defended the government's view! But from a correct reading of it, not as you have done. The truth is that, although the debate on the appropriateness of the proposal that you have made, and, I insist, I do not consider that it has overshadowed the key arguments that I have given you... Since the Basque Government has been questioned and he cannot answer, some little thing I am going to say about what he is doing. The Basque Government, in line with the considerations I made at the very beginning of my first speech, is working in several directions, making an integrated analysis of the sector, of the changes that are taking place in it. In other words, the prosecution is studying to attract private money, in order to procure finances, to find aid in strengthening the industrial character of the sector, the internationalization, both in eucalyptic and eucalyptic productions, and also in aid of profit-fusions and previsions. These things, in short, are a bit of funk that's where you work. Therefore, Mr Reyes, try to make it clear that there is no other way out that what you propose I think is wrong on your part. And we are also faced with an issue that would really need a large and broad consensus, which you do not have. And I believe that you in this case have wronged the approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. Now that the dispute is over, the vote is made whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 16; the opponents are 37; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 22.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u32	The law proposition was therefore ignored. Then we'll go to the vote. Hey, maniro, that's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u33	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Counselor. I have not finally voted in favour of the inclusion because what the Socialist Group has proposed to us is not sufficiently argued. That is to say, there have been no compelling arguments in order to vote in favour of the consideration and then consider the possible submission of partial amendments. What is proposed is that it cannot be corrected later with partial amendments. We also consider that, when a proposal for a law is proposed, the proposer must try to convince the rest of the groups, and it is clear that the Socialist Group has not achieved that objective. We can share the Socialist Group's concern about the situation in the audiovisual sector, but the introduction of a finalist tax is a matter that is serious enough to accept it without giving rise to strong arguments and conflicting reasons, beyond the competence of the Basque Government to do so. In fact, we believe that this is not the right way forward and that, as has been said, there are already others. Not to mention that other sectors are also in difficulty or are even in a worse situation than the audiovisual sector. Although the Socialist Group claims that it is a peremptory necessity to create a tax on the provision of content by providers of electronic communications services and that this will not in any case affect the consumer, we believe that it is not sufficiently explained or argued, either. In fact, it seems rather obvious that this tax would end up being paid by the citizens. As the Basque Government points out, the tax initiative that has been presented to us would generate an abnormal situation that would supposedly benefit a single sector through a finalist tax, something that would be unusual. It is also true, as the Basque Government points out, that the finalist fiscal initiative appears as an isolated initiative from the general Basque fiscal policy, which, by the way, should be unique. Finally, when we look at the Socialist proposal, we have no solid arguments to support it. We have insurmountable repairs and invading insurmountable doubts. Whether it has been done in Catalonia or whether the sector is going through difficulties are few arguments, they are not enough to vote in favour of taking this proposal into consideration. And that can be done, that this tax can be implemented does not mean that it is appropriate to do so. In fact, rather than solving problems, this proposal put forward by the Socialist Group seems to be aimed at obtaining a few votes. In short, the Socialist Group has not been able to convince us. And beyond the fact that we do not share all the arguments put forward by the Basque Government in the presentation of its unfavorable approach, they seem to us to have greater weight. That is why we have not voted in favour of taking this bill into consideration and have abstained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u34	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Next, representative of the EH Collect Group. Mrs Breñas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u35	Thank you. We've also been making abstition for the following reasons. We have not voted for this legal proposition, because our views on tax policy and the state of attorneys do not accord with the final tax-rolls, and from this point of view we do not agree. We don't think this is the way to solve the situation of the sector, and we think this finer rate is just a joke. And it's a dangerous spot because we know that the main telecommunication companies, when setting interconnect, take advantage of their superiority in the market. Phone operators have been punished several times, but they prefer to pay fines to their gain, and continue to impose the highest rates in Europe and the world. Hence it is plain, that if this rate be applied, they will at last pay, because they will not diminish their gains. This would cost all users to increase access to the Internet. Moreover, the rate is proposed to apply in general, although many users do not download illegally. And we don't have to protect EH Collect, and we think it's not the way. More means of dealing with the serious situation of the sector, that's clear. And that's political choice. And you, PSE, who propose this enterprise, have agreed to the budget, and you will agree with this government, and we will see if the bet for the sector really is firm or not. And it is not difficult, if you like, to assign more resources. To get more incomes, let's go deep in the tax-form, so that public sector has more resources, and in budgets can take a certain amount of money to the sector. But to this we must again declare that we have the necessary intervention of all taxes, that we need more tools than those of our present time, as we know that we are limited by the mere management of just taxes. And unfortunately, some of you are not on the way to transcend these limits, together with the EAJ and the PSE and the PP. If we had a U.S.A. system, we could help with the serious sectors of our town more efficiently, in this case of visual presence. In all this, we can't build our tax-based system in this way, by means of the final taxes. For, by this means, we may put a great deal of money one after another (e.g. in sugar, fat, and salt) on food, which are rich, and put away such as are wholesome, or a tax round the great surface to produce in small trade. These, to give you some examples. On the other hand, we're doing a fair review to Vicente Reyes. First of all, because of the way he proposed this proposal. Because with the sector operators there has been no serious preliminary, we believe, and with the rest of the teams, at least with us, because you haven't done any work at all. You didn't find an agreement. In short, you haven't taken care of the minimum forms. And, on the other hand, we see a big hole in your legal proposition. You're based on Catalan law, but a strong leg of that law, that's the article 18th. (Acceso de accesus lingiticus, which seeks protection by catault production, disappears in your proposal.) And you don't make any mention of euca production. And finally, we want to direct the clear message to EAJ, and so we have done before this discussion. We haven't settled in favor of this legal proposition, just for the purpose of protecting the sector and making a great exception to our principles, but we haven't done it because we prefer the real commitments to the sector. And this is what we now ask of EAJ: from this day forward he will commit seriously to the sector, from one to the budget for culture suspects, and the second to the receivers. And we want to sit here and talk to you about this, considering that we have the key in this enterprise, with EH Collect, the key. So we've been waiting for a call from the government since Tuesday. According to what the Representative of the EAJ said... You have spoken of a more stable funding and other measures, and we would like to discuss all this with EAJ and the Government in this case. So, as I said, we wait for the call because it's invited. And for the end, there's only another proposal to the government. We ask him to look at the Catalan model. On the one hand, ICEC High School, which gives access to the cultural profession, and on the other, to the Central High School of the Films and Views, which is apublic, and finally to promote the sector of visuals and protect catalan productions from the Law of 2010. And that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u36	Thank you, Mrs Breñas. Third point in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by the members of Carmelus Barrio Barroja Popula, on the necessity of a new plan on Esscal ball. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u37	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, good morning. After the interpellation we had in the past full of control, this motion comes, announced also in it. 14 years ago, the Basque Government introduced and approved a strategic plan for the Basque ball. At that time, 42 actions were formed, in the face, as the text itself said, of placing the Basque ball in the daily life of society, both in the educational sphere, of course in sports, as well as in play, in tourism and in business. There was also a need to define the product itself (the Basque ball) and the market in which it was located. Many issues were discussed. Objectives: to improve the management model (of clubs, of the federative network, of the sport itself), the cultural change it required, the greater participation of women as well, and other objectives. It had a procedure of definition through the Pilot 21 brand and of dissemination of that plan, it had a budgetary development, it had a series of agreements and agreements with the Basque Federation of Pelota, the World Council of Pelota, with the Confederation of Ikastolas, and it had a process and a period of validity that, from our point of view, should clearly have been extended or extended. It is clear that the strategic plan had good will, but was clearly improved and was insufficient and with little encouragement in relation to the objectives set. We have to refer to the facts and to the present moment. As stated in the inquiry that we had in the full past, the Basque Country Sports Act provides in its additional provision, or it provides (contemplates at that time, because its fifth additional provision was made to the effect), that in order to promote", other sports also characteristic and autochthonous, but "the Basque ball, the Basque Government will approve within one year", at that time, in 1998, we talked about approving this plan, "in which the federations, the Basque Sports Council and other agents related to the Basque ball will intervene". It spoke of objectives, of discussing objectives of the plan, measures to achieve those objectives, responsibilities of the different public and private entities in order to implement those measures, deadlines, procedure and time frame for the revision of the plan, external promotion, etc. Then came the Basque Sports Plan 2003-2007, in implementation of that law – many things were delayed. The Strategic Plan for the Basque Pelota 2006-2010 was then drawn up. I say again, the Sports Act was passed in 1998, it was given one year in the additional provision, but until 2006 it was not approved. This plan marked the lines of action which the agents involved in its implementation had to carry out in the field of the Basque ball. Indeed, there was a strategic plan, which we all had the opportunity to know. I said earlier that it was insufficient and that it was short, and that is because time and situation have shown it. But in any case, there he was and serves as a reference. As I said before, the Basque Pelota Federation of Euskadi, the World Council of the Basque Pelota, the Confederation of Ikastolas were also agents called to develop actions contemplated in the plan, subsidized for this purpose in the respective agreements reached in 2007, raised and defined black on white in the budgets of the Basque Government of that time. One might think that in a plenary of Parliament we are dealing with a smaller issue, but I believe that it has sufficient entity, in addition to certain situations or also after a recent appearance of federal officials in the Committee on Culture and Sports of the Basque Parliament, where it became apparent, among other issues that will be addressed at the appropriate time... We said it at the interpellation. There were many issues, but some will have a different parliamentary moment. And we saw the need to make a new strategic plan before the consideration – and that was said by the federal officials, who are more closely linked to the sports practice of the Basque ball – of the critical situation that the Basque ball lives in its various modalities. They put the accent on some (in the top basket, the lift, the shovel...), but in any case, in general terms they already spoke, in relation to the Basque ball, of the critical situation that the ball lives in its different modalities. And that had to make you react somehow. Indeed, there will be more appearances and there will be federal or institutional or business officials who will appear. In any case, I think it was good to address this issue. Also the federative leaders (those who came to that appearance and others with whom we have been able to talk and evaluate this situation) talked about the need to achieve a certain diagnosis of the current situation. And there is one of the keys: a certain diagnosis of the current situation, in which they would have to participate as well, and they claimed, all the agents involved. As I was saying the other day, I am not going to get into the situation of federative disagreements and some accusations made. There are pending appearances by the president of the World Council of Pelota, the director of sports of the Basque Government. But the question that has arisen in relation to the strategic plan I believe it is the one that must be addressed to us; in a way, moreover, constructive, because I believe that we are in tune. After what has been dealt with and the Commissioner's answers, and also at the political moment that we are now (constitution of the new parliaments), I think it is a good time to address this issue in an immediate way. And I have made reference to documents, and here are important documents and reflections in relation to the Basque ball: that Strategic Plan of the Ball 2006-2010... There are other documents: the document of the International Federation of Basque Pelota, which was made in Pau in 2010, Basque Pelota, Olympic sport. Even those interesting approaches were on the table, and they are. Also in the previous Government; with Mr Mutilloa we had the opportunity to talk about these issues in a constructive way. Other documents, too. The World Congress of the International Federation of Basque Pelota seems to me that it was in Guadalajara in July 2011: its conclusions, in a document called Frontón 2020, where it also talked about issues and keys in relation to the resizing of modalities, facilities, etc. There have also been specific initiatives, such as the Gernika Forum, addressing the issue of the end basket. And documents and analysis, every day, at work, of the respective federations involved or also of the companies and areas that move around the ball. It is also relevant, and I said it before, at the time when we are about to see that the parliaments that will soon be formed also participate decisively in the elaboration of this strategic plan by the competences they have. Logically, it is good that the federative network, the companies, the clubs and the deputies (if any, also the municipalities, but that will be a more collateral issue surely) assist with the Basque Government in the realization of this strategic plan. We announced this motion the other day. We were already doing, the other day too, an analysis of the complicated economic moment, or in public. Budget funds for sport have fallen significantly in recent times. Well, let's see what's needed, let's see how we focus on the next few years, let's see if there can be more availability, let's study future commitments... Because on this subject of the Basque ball, besides, if we don't do it, no one is going to do it. So, let's do it. I think it's the fundamentals. The other day we were also talking about definitions, about the Basque sport model. Why not? It is the ball that best identifies it, surely, in a more forceful way. And another, and very important, almost indispensable. A strategic plan will be for the Basque ball an area of encounter, an area of agreement – it should be – to overcome many disagreements. We've been witnesses to them. In addition to promoting the sport itself of the Basque ball, it will be an area of encounter, because the federative framework moves in a moment of convulsion, in a moment of mistrust, of distrust. And I believe that a document that is going to be strategic, that is going to be executive, but that is also going to encourage reflection, can make that happen. In addition, important things are going to be discussed in that document. We have already seen the previous one, and I believe that this document has to be even more innovative than the 2006-2010 document in relation to the resizing of modalities, in relation to the involvement of agents and clubs in the resizing of the federation, the role of clubs or other actors involved. And that is why we have tabled the motion with two paragraphs, with two paragraphs. The first, which the Basque Parliament calls on the Basque Government to draw up a strategic plan to develop, promote and promote, through an innovative process, the sport of the Basque ball in the next four years. Over the next four years there has to be a strategic document that talks about time frames; then, if necessary, it can be extended, extended, and it will have to be done strategically as well. In any case, I believe that when we talk about organisation, budgets, modernization, education, research, participation, there is the key: that strategic plan. And in the second paragraph, we said that the Department of Education, Culture and Linguistic Policy of the Basque Government is urged, through its Directorate of Sports and Youth, to lead (lead, in the sense of coordinating, pooling criteria, having a battle of harmonization and balance, rather than imposing anything), to lead the elaboration of the plan, and to integrate in this process of elaboration the institutions with competence in sport... We will understand that the opinions on this issue are fundamental, and also the municipalities or their representatives have to say something, and they will have to say it especially in the organisation of sporting events, as we all know. But, in addition to the institutions, also the clubs, the sports companies (we know the weight of the clubs and the sports companies on these issues, and fundamentally the federative framework of the Basque ball), looking, in addition to their involvement and their contribution, their pacification and their consent, and, of course, to fatten some relationships and give more confidence. That's going to be important too, just like the rest. That is, a dynamic process. And we have focused on that, also collecting some of the issues that have been raised with us. I thank the Socialist Group for the constructive amendment; Mrs Red has tabled a constructive amendment, which we fully share. But I believe that the original text contains it: from that concert, from that collaboration of federation, clubs, municipalities and deputies deals with that strategic plan. I thank you for your amendment, but, in any case, I believe it is accepted, as we have mentioned earlier, in the original text. But thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u38	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Since the Social Party has withdrawn the correction, we're going to the teams that have no corrections. The Misto-UPyD team has the word. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u39	Thank you, President. I shall vote in favour of Mr Barrio's motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u40	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u41	Thank you, President. From the seat, if I may. We have indeed withdrawn the amendment we had tabled. We understand that the rest of the groups will support Mr Barrio's original initiative and, in favour of the agreement, we have decided to withdraw it. This issue has been brought by Mr Barrio. It comes to Parliament with an appearance in the committee where we deal with the issue of sport. And, indeed, there is an internal problem that should not be the protagonist, but it is marking a little the fate of the situation of the Basque ball. Therefore, we understand that the plan is necessary. It is necessary to make a diagnosis. I can share what Mr Barrio has done, but I believe that the Basque Government must work with the institutions involved and also recognise what Mrs Urgell has already done in the previous parliamentary term, which was to put this issue on track and start working for a sport that is not at its best. It needs support that maybe other sports don't need it in a way as strong as the Basque ball needs it. And, of course, what we do want to emphasize from the Socialist Group is the need for the strategic plan, for diagnosis, for solutions to be taken into account by the institutions involved and also by the actors involved. And let the Basque Government do everything in its power to try to solve that internal situation which is passing the bill to the sport and which simply puts sticks on the wheels of a possible solution or of a possible push to this sport, which we believe it needs. It is true, as Mr Barrio has said, that there is a required appearance to hear the other version of this internal situation that seems to exist. And from there, I understand that the political groups will work on what is in our hands to try to solve the problem. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u42	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u43	Good morning, everyone. Before this conversation began, I should like to applaud and thank all the people who are working secretly for the Euskal ball in years, offering their time, spending hours and hours, without any means, and often putting their resources out of their pocket. Some kids, training children, others organising contests, or making materials, etc., etc., etc. Each of you plays his part, as is the case with all sports. The same thing happens in the field of the ball. And our gratitude to the pilots. To the pilots, to choose the euscal ball practice, and so to the ball, to the sport that belongs to us, to the beloved sport as ours, to guarantee the future. We think it's not less. If it's hard in any sport, in the sport world, to work as volunteers, to miitante, to lick, it's harder to act like a volunteer in the world of the ball. In saying this, even though the spokesman before mentioned that the ball isn't passing the sweetest moments, I'd say it's been a serious time. I dare say that it is better found now than in other times, though it is not found in easy times. The rest, for all the work that has been done, the television, the media play, the cappings and the other factors that have been organized. It must be acknowledged that some of the reformers have been built, and that it has helped to revive the foundation, though we cannot deny that we have still much to do, and that a serious and severe scheme is really necessary to encourage him. But, apart from the strategic plan, what is necessary here is the means. And it's true that the organizations are really working so hard to push and develop eupscal ball. And what you need is a positive discrimination. In the end, other sports are found elsewhere in the world, but the Euscal ball is ours, and if we don't, who will? It is often heard, when one does not know what to do, to make a pomp or to make a strategic plan. I hope that's not the way it is this time, if you take it seriously, and then you really don't stay in the drawer. We have had a plan before; I dare say it has not been taken as it ought, that the means have not been directed, and that there has been a lack of seriousness. And this plan ought to consider all the modalities we hold in our hands: hands, tools, xains, direct games, etc. He should be aware, in complete integration, of different levels, but he must especially consider the basis and the club, the ones who are directly in charge of the ball, the rest of the chain coming from there. So what we need is a general view, an integral. All we need is the rents, the constructions, the work, the co-ordination, the means to continue, and really take the measures to practice. In conclusion, I'd like to thank Mr. Barri to bring this subject to a full meeting and defend some ideas that the EH Collect has thrown on the committees. And I hope you don't understand this subject and develop it from a view of the markets, but from a much more integrated view, not only from the management view, but, above all, to establish the measures, and to establish the means at the foundation of the means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Northeast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u45	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Almost all interpelations end in succession, though frequently in conjunction with things very clearly at the day of interpelation. What we have today to discuss is one of them. The chief physician explained their plans, their dates, and their steps. Of course, he said they had taken a few steps. So, it's clear that, uh, Redkong's already working before the show's approved. The Stratal Plankal sporting Center, which had its opening point on the law of 14/1998, anticipated three euscal sports facilities: village sports, oars, and euskal ball. Since then, in 2006, the Basque Pilot's plan of Strasto was completed. Several lines of action were taken there during the course of the years. Today, we see that the Euscali ball is in a difficult situation, we see the need for a news in the strategic plan. That's how they saw it, too. For this purpose they are beginning to work, as the chief physician said in the parliament: "Since in 2006 the strategic plan was created for the purpose of boosting the Basque ball, for the same purpose this government intends to make a new strategic plan through the Directorate of Sport and Youth. This Government has already informed the Basque Federation of Pelota and the World Council of Pelota of its intention to carry out a new strategic plan. This news has been very welcome on both sides." That's what the Chief of Staff told us. As I said before, we are agreed to make a new plan in strategic art. That's why we welcomed the chief physician's statements with joy on the day of interpelation. We really didn't see any need of motives, because the chief physician's lights were absolute, without any hesitation. And then he told us that they had taken the first steps, that they had contacted the faith, and that they had received the news with joy. That's why we're not making any corrections because we see the original motion and the government's plans agree. So our team will agree to the original initiative. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u46	Thank you, Mr. Northraguire. After the answers, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u47	Thank you very much, President. Pretty soon. With your permission, from the seat, to thank all the parliamentary groups for having taken this motion. As Mr Iparragire said, there was a good agreement in the process of the inquiry, but I think it is good that the Basque Parliament has the compromise and the strength of the agreement that will exist today. Greater commitment and attachment to what is going to be a parliamentary mandate, which the Government will have to fulfil. And, in that regard, we also thank him for that provision. I too join Mrs Ubera's words regarding the applause of so many people who anonymously, in a voluntary and disinterested way, have worked for the ball; so many federatives, amateurs, so many volunteers, so many pelotari, so many people in certain municipalities, pitchers... So many people who have had to work in that direction. And, indeed, positive discrimination. Positive discrimination, that's what a strategic plan is. And based on the agreement, much better. I said it in the first part of the speech: if we don't do it, nobody does it. And there has to be that. We have talked about an innovative process, of modernization, of redemption, of reflection, but what has to be now is also a great deal of affection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u48	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Anybody else want to take the word? After the discussion, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Barrio Baroja's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 74; the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0,0; white; 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u49	It has been unanimously accepted the text of the original motion. Forth point on the theme list: "Punciation of the Common-wealths of America, of the Investigation and Commerce between the United States and Europe, concerning the opinion they have of the People of Araba, Biscay, and Gipu. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Matute, it's your word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. As we have collected EH again for Europe, so we have brought the subject which is of the highest importance to the Basque Country to-day: TTIPa. And we say that it is of great importance, because, beyond the position of each party, we believe none of us denies that if the agreement be signed, the consequences will be much and just for the citizens. And we're really glad that this team, the EH Collect, has increased its responsibility for the subject from the beginning. In different countries, instincts and pressure have grown up in front of TTIP, as is evident. Yesterday, in the European Parliament, there was the example of this social mutation. Because what was given yesterday in the European Parliament is nothing more than the rash of nervousness. Because if we see what was going to be done yesterday in the European Parliament on this issue, on the TTIP, and what has finally happened, it will largely have to do with the social mobilization and with the fear of many of your ladies and gentlemen, of many of you and MEPs, of being portrayed in a way that is increasingly distasteful of more and more European people. But the chronology was next. This week we had to discuss and vote in the European Parliament on the position of the Eurochamber itself on the course of negotiations or the progress of negotiations on the TTIP, the ninth round of talks ended and before the tenth round of talks began. It was going to be a non-decision-making vote, and that seems wrong to us. We say it in advance, whatever the result. We find it wrong to remain in an advisory vote. Amendments were tabled on issues of increasing concern to more and more citizens of the European Union. For example, the state-investor dispute court, called ISDS. And for that there are different amendments, over 200 seem to be, and some apparently consensual among the main forces of the Eurochamber, who were seeking misleading readings to allow the ISDS, that private state-investor dispute tribunal, to have room within the House's endorsement for that position. And finally they decide not to carry out the vote, for fear of losing it to the discrepancies in one of the most significant quantitatively significant groups in the House itself, that of the so-called European Social Democracy. But even so, when they see that the vote is at risk even though it is not binding, they decide not to even discuss it, and they achieve it with a perric victory, by two votes and with some absences, which today reflects the press, very prominent and remarkable. That is the sequence of what happened yesterday and that is the best example of what has been the opacity and lack of transparency of the TTIP, of the TTIP negotiations between the mandated commission of the European Union and the United States. An absolutely opaque process, from the back to the citizens and from the legitimate representatives of European citizens, the MEPs. We do not think more contempt for the will of the people than what is being done with this treaty. And it's not just a particular opinion. There is nothing more to see than what has appeared in the press in recent weeks regarding the TISA, the trade agreement also for the redefinition of public services within the framework of application between the European Union and the United States and the leaks that Wikileaks has made about this very thing. It is scandalous that Wikileaks reveals that the TISA agreement, for its own content, for its sensitive content to the eyes and ears of European citizens, was to be secret for five years once it was approved. I mean, they were going to start applying it without the citizens knowing what they were applying to us. That is the reading that also seems to be paramount in the TTIP agreement. And why is this opacity, this lack of absolute and total transparency in the TTIP negotiations? Probably because of the clear leadership of transnational corporations and their entities, Business Europe, for example, in directing the course of negotiations. Probably copying or emulating the participation formulas of other notable clubs, such as the Bilderberg, which also seems to have some notable representative of Spanish politics. But it is also a sign of its opacity that the conditions of study to which Members who wish to access information about the negotiating rounds are subject. You all probably already know what the format is like, but, in case anyone or anyone doesn't know it, I only point out one fact: for two hours and no more, in a small, small room, with an official who is supposed to be confident (not of the MEP, but of the negotiating committee) and without the possibility of recording, photographing or transcribing anything other than a pencil and a paper. These are the conditions for analysis and study imposed on MEPs in order to be able to study the TTIP. I see someone seems unrelevant. I wonder... There are many debates in this Parliament today; one of them is the housing law. Do you imagine that the housing law would have arrived in this Parliament negotiated and drafted by the builders and that only you, the parliamentarians who are drafting the housing law, would have been allowed two hours to analyse the text and to prepare their position? Surely it would seem outrageous to us all and to us all, it would seem to us an offence and an insult to the popular representation we display and for which we are all here. That is what is being done in Europe with the TTIP. And the obscurantism and secrecy to which I allude is not even a nantine position of EH Bildu or of the forces that we oppose the TTIP. That is what Mr García Bercero, the representative of Europe, said in the negotiations, when he pointed out that there was probably a need for more transparency and that there had been shortcomings. And it is pointed out by the media that they are not precisely the closest to Euskal Herria Bildu. Today in Deia, the journalist says: "There are many doubts and shadows that raise the agreement, negotiated so in hijackings that its possible real reach is still unknown." On 25 May, in El Correo (also a medium generally related to Euskal Herria Bildu), in relation to this, the journalist points out: "To try to shed some light – the meetings of the negotiating teams are characterized by their opacity –...". That's the reality. It is therefore not a subjective reading of our political formation. And that is why we are presenting this initiative. Because the logical thing is that from here we do everything in our hand to reverse that obscurantism, that opacity. How? Taking steps to the contrary. As simple as that is what we propose today and here in this House. And let's start taking steps where we can where we can, where we can, we've just proposed this other proposition as well as we can. Before the darkness and sacretism that is being so apparent, the legislature asks the Government to question, in order to express the opinion of the citizen EAE in front of the TTIP. If people are targets, as the government motto says, let's know what people think, so that they can make decisions. And thus alone, considering what people think, encourage their participation, we shall be with what is so often expressed by the coherent. Because that is the virtuality of the non-legislative proposal that we are presenting today: to consult citizens, to inform them, to give them all the opportunities to form an opinion, and from there to deposit in their critical reading of things, or in their capacities, what position this House must hold, that this Government should maintain in relation to this treaty. And I sincerely believe that there are no long-range excuses or excuses for not doing so. One cannot argue that it would be an accelerated process, without lack of time. The very sources most inspired by the need to approve this agreement tell us about 2017, 2018 as a possible date of approval, of the conclusion of the negotiations between the United States and the European Union for the signing of the TTIP. So there's time. There is more than enough time to engage in a campaign of information, awareness-raising, confrontation of opinions and impressions, and finally consultation with the citizenry. You will have the opportunity to point out the good things that you have given to this agreement and we will have the opportunity to denounce those for us and for us certain threats that are looming over all the citizens of our country. Let's think about citizenship. In an election campaign – and it has recently been one and it seems that we will soon have another – we have started to ask for the citizens' vote and we have told them one thing clearly, that we were committed to doing as many reforms as necessary in this democracy to make it more sustained, more respected by the citizens. And that it was because I was more aware of them, because I was able to detect what their needs are and what their positions are. Let us therefore do an exercise here so that it is real, so that it does not remain alone in an electoral bait with little flesh, with little flesh, but without any practical will to carry it out. And also because there are precedents. The citizens of the Basque Autonomous Community, as well as those of Nafarroa, have already been asked what we thought about joining NATO. It is true that we were not paid any attention to the majority position of the citizenry in Hego Euskal Herria. But you've already consulted. Even on much more recent dates, a referendum on the Treaty of the European Constitution was also held. Moreover, and it is a suggestion, there would be an opportunity to amend that democratic deficit that involved the vote in the Congress of Deputies in June 2014 by many of the groups, which also here have representation, such as the PNV, the Socialist Party, the People's Party, who decided to vote against convening a referendum on the TTIP throughout the Spanish state territory. For if they do not want to do so, if they weighed these arguments there, if at that time the readings on the TTIP seemed to them to be good enough to not have to consult the citizenry, because they would applaud it (I don't know if with ears, but, of course, to rabies), they now have the opportunity to self-amend themselves and to make it easier for citizens to give their opinion on this issue. It's as simple as that. Because what we want is for an interactive debate to be held with people, where you, as I say, can sell the kindnesses that you give him and we can point out the threats that we give him. As simple as that. And being aware that our starting position, even though it seems to be equal to a referendum, is, in practice, more weak, because even today the strength of the media powers, of the lobbies, of the entities that support the treaty is greater than those who express themselves against, despite the fact that a work has been done in Hego Euskal Herria more than interesting to bring together the set of forces that we resist and oppose the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Treaty, the TTIP. As simple as what I just said. And we will say that it is absolutely unnecessary, because here it is not a question of choosing between everything and nothing, because there are already trade relations between the European Union and the United States; because we are not condemning people to what gulf, because there is already the possibility that Basque companies or any other companies will interact with those of the other continent, and they do so normally and, according to the export results by which the adviser usually guides us in her intervention, it seems that in a satisfactory way. Therefore, we are not raising everything or anything. We are considering that this agreement brings much worse than what good can bring for a few. And we can say that these treaties are the colophon or brooch to last generation treaties, which hide a real danger, because they corner democracy, because they eliminate democracy from its basic operating rules. Because they raise elements, and in the TISA it is clearly seen, as the trench clause. And the trinket clause, which has probably a funny name, allows for further incorporation of new elements into the treaty voted for by the citizenry, or by the national parliaments if it is not for the citizenry, after the signing of the agreement, so that one can sign one thing now that ends up becoming another by the pressure of the multinationals. And that's a blank check for the multinationals. And that is the perversity of the last generation treaties, which also incorporates the TTIP and which has already incorporated the NAFTA or the TISA itself. And we will also say that it is a frontal attack on the labour rights, social and environmental rights of the whole population, also of the Basque population. Multinationals are probably moving for interest. We and we are required by the citizens to move in the defence of ideas and ideas that become rights that guarantee and safeguard the dignity of all people. And we will also say that it is a clear threat to the privatization of public services, to dismantle what has been called the welfare state, because it allows multinationals to enter into spaces that we guaranteed for public services, to guarantee higher levels of equity and equality in our society. And above all, and fundamentally, we will say that it is a frontal attack on the sovereignty of peoples, states and nations, which means leaving in the hands of multinationals the most important decisions that peoples and nations can make. And for that frontal attack on sovereignty to be well understood, I will give another example of something that is also being discussed in this House. At present, this House is debating fracking, and the final position of the majority of the representatives of this House is being clarified, whether it is about the paralysis, the prohibition of fracking or a moratorium. If the TTIP were to be approved before this Parliament decided anything about it, it would be the same as what this Parliament approved, because through ISDS they could, as has already been done in Canada with fracking as well, sue this State with the sole requirement that they have an open commercial office anywhere other than the Spanish State. Euskal Herria would therefore be forced to frack despite the fact that this Parliament and its citizens said no to the same. That's the reality we're moving into. I'm done with a question. In a previous debate, the positions of Varufakis, of Syriza were pointed out on the position they were having and on what they would tell some if they said what Varufakis said in relation to the banking crisis. I hope that in this country some party, apart from EH Bildu, would argue as Syriza that, if it were for them, the Free Trade Agreement with the United States would not be approved.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u51	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. We defend ourselves that it is easy to take part in the affairs which the Socialists influence their fellow-citizens. We think people should find a proper way of giving their opinion. We fully agree that the division of the citizens cannot only be limited to elections. These Socialists think that men, in order to decide freely what attitude they must take, must be information necessary. Looking for channels of participation from the impulse of popular legislative initiatives, an issue that we will soon see and vote on in this House, by voting on a bill that modifies and updates and improves the current text on this issue, or others, seems to us to be a commendable work. Citizenship demands more participation, the Administration must provide it with tools that raise the quality of our democracy. Information, transparency, participation of citizens in matters affecting them were some of the issues of greatest interest to the Government of the lehendakari Patxi López, so tools such as the Irekia portal, open government, and others were developed. But the proposal put to us today by the Euskal Group Herria Bildu does not by far meet the requirements to be accepted, to be recognized as one of those instruments that make women and women citizens improve their knowledge and democratic participation. I'll explain myself. We are being asked for a consultation on the Transatlantic Agreement on Trade and Investment, which the European Union and the United States have been negotiating since July 2013. I say negotiating, because today no text has been agreed, and that is why, among other reasons, we find the proposal out of place, when the European Parliament's Committee on International Trade on the recommendations to the European Commission has just given its opinion on 28 May, to take them into account in the current negotiation. We do not understand this sudden outburst that has entered Euskal Herria Bildu for knowing the opinion of the citizens on a matter that is not yet closed, which has a long way to go before the final decision is taken. It should be stressed that once the agreement has been reached, if so, it must be ratified by the European Parliament itself and by the 28 Member States of the European Union. We are therefore surprised by this interest and EHB's determination to consult on something that will, of course, affect all European citizens, and therefore Basque, but which can be perceived as much more distant and complex than others to which I am going to refer. In a number of Gipuzco municipalities, during the past mandate of the municipalities, many citizens asked for consultations on decisions taken by the Bildu government teams in those municipalities; agreements perfectly known to the people, with a direct impact on their behaviors. They were close and not complex resolutions. I am referring to the consultations requested and which were not carried out on the collection of household waste, the so-called door-to-door system. Preventing them was the attitude of EH Bildu, facing the attitude that so many neighbors of those municipalities of Gipuzco maintained. What incoherence on your part, Mr. Matute! You, who want to sell yourself here as the champion of participation and real democracy, did nothing to listen to those who wanted to talk about how to organize the garbage collection they generated. What is the point of promoting a consultation on something that is in the middle of the negotiation process, which is not much less closed, and yet preventing it on something decided and close? How can a consultation be required on a decision that corresponds to an important area, but further away from the Basques and Basques, and not allow people to comment on decisions made by the nearest institution, such as the municipalities? Mr Matute, we are not going to support your proposal for consultation, out of inconsistency, out of time and away from reality. But in line with this proposal, you have also incorporated the debate on the contents of a possible agreement. First of all, I would like to say that the Socialists believe in a market economy combined with strong states that will make it possible to correct the misadjustments that it causes. We have defended and continue to defend the welfare state, a product of the redistribution of wealth operated by the state. We are aware that in recent decades the influence on the market economy of casino capitalism, the crisis it caused and the austerity measures that the right has taken only for the weakest are producing a recession, a setback in the welfare quotas achieved in Europe. In spite of this, we believe that we must continue to fight in this context of market economy in order to be able to control the deregulated powers and to recover and advance in our social state. In the end, countries that after the fall of the Berlin Wall resisted joining this type of economy, even step by step and are slowly doing so, and the closest example is Cuba. On the other hand, we believe that international trade – and this is what the agreement we are talking about – is a stimulus to growth and a generator of employment. This is what this agreement between the European Union and the United States is all about. We are aware of the difficulties and reticences of such an agreement. We are not going to get exquisite about it, we are not going to raise idealized expectations about it, we are not going to tell anyone that it will remedy our hardships, we will not even support any agreement. We support the negotiation of a fair and balanced agreement between the European Union and the United States. The Socialists, for the time being, support the guidelines adopted in the committee's opinion of 28 May, which seeks to set the Commission a negotiating line, which is its role. As I said before, once the agreement has been reached, the European Parliament will have to ratify it. When the talks began, there was a declared interest on the part of the European right in not imposing any kind of conditions on the United States, that is, letting things flow in the field of more uncontrolled liberalism. It was precisely the Socialists of the European Parliament who worked and worked to ensure that the opinion included most of the amendments tabled by them, amendments which were, of course, in many cases supported by the Unitarian Left and the Greens, although they did not logically vote on the final text of the committee. Ensuring the transparency of the negotiation process was and is one of the concerns expressed by the Socialists, aware that the hermetism that has guided the Commission has been a serious mistake and that it has created an adverse state of opinion, both in political groups and in society at large. In this way, it has been achieved that the opinion, in its seven-point opinion (e), incorporates guidelines on Members' access to negotiating documents and consolidated texts. Not two hours, as you said; that's what there was before. The opinion says that parliamentarians must have access to all this information, a broad public debate must be guaranteed and Member States must be encouraged to keep Members of their parliaments informed, as well as to promote debate. Paragraph (e) of the opinion of the European Parliament's Committee on International Trade. Another matter of great interest has been that of services. Here, too, the Socialists have made it clear which ones are open to trade and which are excluded. For example, public services. Mr. Matute, they're excluded. They are excluded from the guidelines which Parliament wants to mark for the Commission. They're excluded. We are talking about what Parliament has said. Okay? As I say, water, health, social services or education are excluded from those services that can be negotiated or that can be offered directly by companies. Through the socialist amendments, European standards of social, environmental, consumer and labour rights have been preserved, supporting ratification of the ILO core conventions in the final text. This has also been put into the conditions, in the position which Parliament wants to set for the negotiating committee. Nor have European Socialist parliamentarians forgotten the defence of agricultural products, which are particularly sensitive. And yes, the discrepancies that have occurred, even after the vote on the opinion, on who should resolve in case of differences between investors and states have been well known. The opinion speaks of independent judges. I, too, agree that this is not very concrete. We too are in favour of the ordinary courts of each country being the ones to rule. That is why the opinion, apart from technical matters, is sent back to the Committee on International Trade, so that it can be brought back to the European Parliament and that it can be included or matified or these issues can be corrected. This is what is going to be done, this is what has been decided. In conclusion. The Basque Socialists generally support the guidelines of the opinion drawn up by the committee on the 28th. All European Socialists want the Commission's proposal for ratification to be worthy of our support. And I can assure you that the Socialist vote will only be cast once the final agreement is known and accepted. Then you can count on socialist support or not. There are plenty of milestones left to overcome. There is time to inform people and to make decisions. In the meantime, Mr Matute, I would like to reflect on the votes that you have lost in Gipuzkoa for not calling for consultations on a simple and close issue. And we don't want to get into the morning – in lower case – an incoherent, out-of-date consultation and lack of reality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u53	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u54	Thank you, President. The TTIP responds to the acronyms in English of the Transatlantic Partnership for Trade and Investment, i.e. the proposed trade and investment agreement that the European Union is negotiating with the United States. On 17 June 2013, the Council of the European Union approved the mandate authorizing the European Commission to negotiate the free trade agreement with the United States. It was not until 9 October 2014 that the document, with the negotiating lines of the European Union, was published, due to the growing pressures and accusations of secrecy, opacity and lack of transparency absolutely justified. The negotiations are being carried out by the European Commission and the United States Trade Promotion Authority. The purpose of the negotiating mandate is to reach an agreement on market access, regulatory and regulatory cooperation. The European Parliament does not participate in the negotiations, but the treaties give it the ultimate power to approve the agreement, i.e. the European Parliament would ultimately have the right of veto. The European Parliament and the European Council will have to decide whether to give the agreement a green light. Negotiations are continuing and the text, as has been said, is not closed. I mean, there's no agreement at the moment. Therefore, the first thing we should say clearly is that it is impossible to vote on a consultation on an agreement that does not exist. On 28 May this year, the Parliamentary Commission on International Trade (INTA) adopted a resolution (the second) on the TTIP negotiations. That resolution does what the Eurochamber believes should be the Commission's priorities and limits when negotiating. The resolution was adopted with 28 votes in favour and 13 against. UPyD did not participate in the vote because it had no representation on that committee. Once the resolution has been adopted in committee, it follows its parliamentary procedure and goes up to another stage, the plenary. The resolution should have been debated and voted on yesterday. And that resolution speaks of transparency. The transparency initiative adopted by INTA would allow more documents to be accessible and public debate possible, which has not yet happened. UPyD has shown a clear commitment to transparency in these negotiations. Our head of delegation to the European Parliament, Maite Pagazaurtundua, asked the committee to translate all the declassified documents into the different official languages of the Union as a first step towards greater openness of the process and has consistently advocated maximum transparency in all procedures, dialogues and negotiations. Second point: access to new markets. The final objective of the agreement is the elimination of tariffs, always taking into account that there are agricultural and industrial products which the Union wishes to protect in particular and which should be set out in an exhaustive list. In addition, the resolution calls for the incorporation of a safeguard clause that can be invoked when the import of a product affects European production. Important safeguards are also called for for for the European Union's system of geographical indications. Another point: services. UPyD has called from the beginning of the talks for the exclusion of public services such as sanitation, education or water supply from the trade agreement. The text to be voted on refers to such exclusion and makes it clear that it will remain the national authorities, or, where appropriate, the local authorities, which have full powers. With regard to regulatory cooperation. Regulatory cooperation has an important role to play in reducing excessive red tape and high costs, unless it mainly affects small and medium-sized enterprises. However, there are regulations that under no circumstances can be lowered. In this regard, the resolution is strong in pointing out that labour, health and safety standards, as well as environmental standards, will not be lowered. In relation to the standards. European standards should be kept in a specific chapter on sustainability. One of the most widespread fears is related to the fear that labour standards might be undermined, and that the United States has not ratified six of the eight major ILO conventions, including those concerning trade union freedom and collective bargaining. The text calls for a binding and enforceable chapter on sustainable development to be included in the agreement. The document states that there will also be no negotiation on transgenics, use of hormones in the bovine sector, cloning of animals for agricultural purposes or toxic products. All free trade agreements envisage mechanisms to address the problems that may arise from such trade, especially with the aim of defending investors and companies that have less power than the states. However, it is also necessary to ensure that these mechanisms do not directly affect the legal system of states. One of the points in the TTIP refers precisely to the protection of investors' rights. ISDS is the investor-state dispute resolution mechanism. It is a mechanism, usually arbitration, that exists in many trade agreements of all kinds. The European Commission proposes improvements to ISDS, such as the independence of judges and an appeal mechanism, and, in the medium term, the creation of an international investment court as a basis for negotiations on a new and effective investment protection system to replace ISDS. It refers to the legal systems of the European Union and the United States and to this proposal as a permanent solution for resolving disputes between investors and states. This is because the laws are to be made by parliaments, which are the representation of the will of the people, and are to be executed by judges and magistrates representing the judiciary. It is necessary that the dispute resolution mechanism protects investors, but that it does not serve as a trap to affect state legislation without going through the necessary democratic controls. UPyD has shown its conviction that there must be a mechanism to protect investors. However, the arbitration mechanism in other agreements does not meet the level of requirement sought in this TTIP. UPyD is committed to promoting a more transparent and democratic, evolved and revolutionary system. The Commissioner's proposal is a small step forward, albeit insufficient. UPyD is not a member of the INTA committee and has therefore not participated in the drafting of the document. However, it has actively amended the views of other parliamentary committees on TTIP. Both Maite Pagazaurtundua and Beatriz Becerra have requested that European standards not be reduced, that access to documents already classified with their translation is facilitated, that it is ensured that the Court of Justice of the European Union is the sole guarantor of the final interpretation of Community legislation and alternatives to ISDS. We have also called for a reference to development policy to be included in the agreement and for the committee to assess its implications. Finally, UPyD wants to take into account the contributions made by the European Ombudsman on this issue. In the justification of EH Bildu's initiative, he said that the Transatlantic Agreement on Trade and Investment between the United States and Europe could become the most severe pact that had been signed in recent decades, and his concern was understandable. We do not, in fact, want it to become a pact that can become negative for citizens as a whole. It also says this justification of EH Bildu that the information that comes to us is scarce, and this is also true. The information we have at our disposal has certainly been scarce for a long time. And it is also said in this justification that the agreement does not benefit society at all, as it will entail a reduction of the rights of the people and a precariousization of the rights of the workers. Two things have to be said at that point. On the one hand, that there is no agreement at the moment and that precisely what we want to avoid is precisely what EH Bildu poses as a threat, that is, we do not want this agreement to harm society. We do not want this agreement, if it happens, to mean a cut in people's rights, and we do not want that agreement, if it happens – it has not yet happened – to mean a precariousization of workers' rights. He ends by pointing out EH Bildu in his justification that it is very important to have as much information as possible and as much transparency as possible. No doubt, that's the case and we've been claiming it. Not that it is important, it is essential to have maximum transparency and maximum information and maximum participation for citizens. From there, he proposed a consultation, which could not be considered because that agreement did not exist. What we want is, therefore, that as much information as possible can be produced, that there is as much transparency as possible, that citizens can participate, that they can know, that they can know, that has not been possible for too long. And this is what we were calling for in our entire amendment. We proposed that any ratification or association be made conditional, at least, on full respect for European consumer protection standards and standards and their rights, and that the protection of the social interests of citizens rather than that of major economic actors should be given the highest priority. And this is basically what is reflected in the compromise amendment that we have finally signed with the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group. All this is about transparency, participation, information, compliance with a number of requirements.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u55	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u56	Finally, the vote had to have taken place yesterday. That vote and debate were postponed. Our first idea was to vote against this debate yesterday, but it has finally not been debated.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u57	Thank you, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u58	I'm done. In any case, we want this agreement to be useful and beneficial for society as a whole. I think the position is perfectly clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u59	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u60	Good noon, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. There are some truths about TTIP, and there are many questions, doubts, and concerns not only these. And in a certain political degree, there is also a passionate dispute; or at least the motives which would insist upon the discussion, I mean always in confessional scenes, the demands of the ideology of confession. It's not the first time we've been talking about the TTIV. A year ago, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Matute, you brought the subject yourself, and then you made it clear to me that I'm going to say a word about huddles, but that something like that represents the confession of the TTIP which we're discussing. In part, I admit it. The political agencies that are against the marketnomy begin with the special flame against the TTIP, trying to arouse social alarm around it. In the 19th of April, or, if I may not be mistaken, several alternative side-by-hand parts (the alternistic association and so forth) organized the day against TTIP across Europe, and even here in Euscadin. Here EH Collect made the appeal to the march itself, and I could read round that day the Ekologists on the property of the Marchion Society. On this website, they insist on the success of their demonstrations. And, according to their data, they met that day with 250 people in Donostian, 500 in Iruña, Bilbo 2,000; and they mention Baiona, but they don't say how many people participated in the march at Baiona. I am not going to go in to calibrate the level of success that these figures imply, but any of the militants or supporters of EH Bildu, who encouraged to participate in the calls, to follow a few days later the intervention of a deputy of Amaiur in the Congress of Deputies had to feel, I believe, very but very sorry for not having attended those demonstrations. He said: "The greatest attack on democracy since the Second World War", "the kidnapping and attack on the political and economic sovereignty of the states", "the TTIP is the termite that directly attacks the productive and ecological social structure of this building" – I suppose the building refers to the European model of social welfare – "made after years of citizen and workers' struggle". And another: "The American risk model will replace the principle of European prevention, without health conditions or prior control, that is, junk food for everyone." And so on and so on. I, with the whole world's junk food, stop shooting Maite Ariztegui's intervention in Congress, because I'm still filing an international arbitral claim for copyright, and I'm saying that because the speech was made in Madrid. Mr Matute said that with the proposal he put forward today we had the opportunity to amend the mistake made in that debate. I have here the transcript of the debate and I will simply read you the last paragraph of our Member's speech, Mr Azpiazu, which says: "However, there are risks, Mrs Ariztegui, it is true, they are real and we must try to avoid them at all costs. That is why it is very good to put light and stenographers on the negotiation, to set out clearly the red lines and starting points of the European position and to establish the mechanisms of participation in such a way that the agreement is that of everyone and does not respond only to the interests of the powerful. We believe in the Basque Group that essentially the five points that you raise, concerning information, transparency and participation, are positive and we will vote for them." En cualquier caso, Mrs. Argizugui, and we hear and read many similar things about TTIP. And, in some measure, we seem to be discourses designed in the excess of tremendism and the excess of words, and, as I have said before, trying to excite and exaggerate social alarm. We should leave the hyperbolic record aside and look at reality with a certain coolness. And what is reality? The negotiations between the European board and the United States continue, and at first it is true of apparent opacity. There may be an advantage in keeping quiet, that is, to obtain the discretion which the committee argues, to facilitate difficult negotiations. But it also has the contrary effect: to excite mistrust and uneasiness in the public, and consequently to promote opposite attitudes. And it is true that there has been darkness in this negotiation, and, consequently, we are supposed to have been obliged to do a great number of pedagogias about TTIP. Still, we don't share the EH Collect view. I mean, we're not concerned with the ideological model, we're doing things the right way. Why and why the TTIPa? Because Europe has less relative weights in the global world, because the main pole of economic weight is looking at the other end of the world, attracted by the gigantic weight of China. Therefore, if you despise some because the policy is of its importance. The TTIP, in the area of Europe and the United States together, would consolidate the centre of the commerce of the world. And in the centre of this centre, we ourselves are placed. It's not the same for the Basque Country to be in the middle of the world's largest market or in the Antipodes. Europe and the United States do 46% of the world's BP with each other; in total, 800 million people, or client, as you please. But if we look at the Eskadian Autonomous, which is our domestic economy, we have an interesting piece of data: in the last five years the United States are the third commercial for euscal corporations, after France and Germany. And a second data: The United States are the primary aim of foreign conversions. I shall not enter to assure myself of the advantages of signing this treaty, which I do not know, and which are all their expectations, but I would like to give a glance to what has already happened. And, well, Europe has already signed free commerce treaties with other countries, and without much trouble. To give a few examples, with South Korea in 2011, Europe has from that moment a commercial superabbit with it. Or in the year 2000 with Mexico, and since then the commerce between them has been doubled. Or Colombia or Peru or other people. Policies to promote industrial competitiveness, to improve technology, to internationalise all this has only one objective: to produce better and, consequently, to place the product produced on the market, because without a market there is no need for a product, neither a company nor a worker. Now, how do we do it? Well, you have to do it right. And EAJ-PNV wants him to get well. That is why we were in general agreement with the recommendation document which was to be voted on yesterday in the European Parliament and which was not voted on. We would agree with a TTIP to be drafted taking into account the recommendations contained in the proposed resolution. We agree that the main objective must be to facilitate access to that market that we have talked about to SMEs, because, you say what you say, large transnationals already sell and invest everywhere, access all markets and claim their interests against any state, for many, many years. By the way, in case you do not know, at this time the State to which we belong has 15 claims against you at ICSID, which is the arbitral tribunal of the World Bank. We agree with the Commission's call to ratify ILO conventions and to veto social dumping; with the application of the principle of health prevention, food safety; with exclusion clauses from public services; with the fight against tax fraud and tax havens; with the ratification of environmental agreements, etc. We generally agreed with the recommendations of the document that was to be voted on yesterday and that was not voted on. And if postponing the vote results in the document getting better, we will still agree with the improved document. In any case, it should be remembered that the treaty negotiated by the Commission will only enter into force once it has been adopted by the European Council, then by the European Parliament, if I am not mistaken, the same Parliament which yesterday decided to delay the voting on the recommendations, and then, in addition, 28 state parliaments will have to approve it. Where appropriate, Greece too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing over to the group that hasn't been running any corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u62	Thank you very much, Madam President. I think this is not a debate, because it is not a debate, and the treaty matters to you a little bit... If instead of the United States of America, the other side was Russia, we would not have this debate, we would not be in this debate, as we have not been when the free trade treaties have been with other states. Why do we have this debate? Because on the other side is the USA, and then some are already put their hairs like scarves and now all the evils of the world come. If it were the free trade agreement with Russia, Mr Matute would not have brought this issue here, which we discussed at the previous session. He's brought it to us now on this one and he'll bring it back to us on the next one, because we'll still be out of agreement. We will remain unagreed because we are debating the non-agreement. It's just that you have to remember here from time to time what things are like. And, I told you at the time, I know that you in the Spanish don't trust anything, but I don't think that neither the Germans, nor the British, nor the French, that is, the rest, who are so good, let themselves be deceived by the Americans and let us make the cousin all Europeans. And you set an example of what happened yesterday. What happened yesterday was as simple as the following: neither the European People's Party nor the European Socialist Party agreed with the Socialist rapporteur's proposal on the court. And, as you know, when there are more than 200 amendments, you can withdraw to see if you agree. Now, look, in a treaty that regulates so many things to establish trade opportunities between Europe and the United States easier than those that exist now, the great argument is the court that has to judge if someone fails. That was the discussion yesterday in Europe, not what you brought us here, because you repeated the same resources as six months ago (education, health...). All of that knows perfectly well that it is excluded from the treaty. You know perfectly well. "Labour relations are going to be affected." Look, I'll give you an example. Do you believe that the European Union is more or less than the free trade agreement with the United States? Is it more or less? It's more than that, isn't it? We're more bound, aren't we? In addition, the European Union dictates the rules to us. And are the labour relations of the Member States of the European Union all the same or are they different? They're different, aren't they? So, what does the saint have to come here to invent dangers or things that put him at risk? Don't look for arguments that don't exist and that you don't need to squander them at all. And less, I repeat, when there is no text. Then he tells us about obscurantism. I could recognize him more or less six months ago, not today. I do not recall that any other treaty, sorry, a draft to make recommendations, has been discussed in the European Parliament and amendments are tabled. No one else. More transparency than that, that all groups have been able to submit amendments to the draft to make recommendations to the negotiating committee? But I also don't know which country he lives in or which country he thinks he lives in. How would this treaty be adopted? I'll tell you what steps to take. After the negotiations have been concluded, there is supposed to be an agreement by the negotiating committee. The European Commission has to submit it to the Council of the Union, which must approve it by 55% of the states, which must represent 65% of the population of the European Union. If it is approved there, then it has to go to the European Parliament, which has to approve it. And then it has to be ratified by the member states. Yes, sir. Look, if there was agreement today, when would we be talking about it coming into force, if it is approved by all the bodies that have to make that agreement. You say, "No, this only benefits multinationals." They've already told you. You don't know which multinational you think isn't in Spain. There's also some, I don't know, but, come on, I think they're all there. And in Europe I don't think which one is not operating, and also operating according to the laws that benefit them better at each site and transferring funds from one site to another to see if that's how they pay less taxes at one site than at another. Of course, if you had a treaty to regulate them, you might as well limit those little ones. Who would be the beneficiaries? They have also told you: small businesses, which today have it most difficult, and citizens. And why small businesses? Because they could sell cheaper products because tariffs are withdrawn. And why the citizens? Because they could buy the cheapest products. And, what do you want me to say, I would have no problem in accepting also, and it seems to me good, that you sign one with Russia, and with the countries of the East, and with those of Africa, and with those of the whole world, because that is good for everyone. I don't know what you're afraid of. I thought, when I was younger, that the left was characterized by one thing, that it was internationalism. The left was internationalist. For now I find that the left, apparently, is the most nationalist thing that has ever existed, for all purposes and at all levels, and what it is defending is always being able to decide in the smallest sphere everything. Well, this was the most racy and caciquil right-wing scheme of every town you're applying perfectly. And, apparently, they've stopped being internationalists. Or maybe that's what they're opposed to now only if it's the United States. If it's the rest of the countries, okay. You'll know why.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u63	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing over to the answer shift, representative of EH Collector. Mr. Matute, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u64	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Damborenea, I believe your lexicon is evidence. Talk about Eastern countries in 2015... It could be anyone in the world, depending on where you look. I guess you were talking about the countries on the other side. I inform you, because the same has happened to him as he was then a UPyD deputy and in a series he made a gentleman who had been in a coma for a long time and then came back to life. I'll let you know if you don't see Good Bye, Lenin! , that the wall has already fallen, fell in 1990. But, beyond that, I also make it clear, so that around, at least, the argumental line is worked a little bit more. Nor is it necessary to become a stajanovist, but a little more. It would seem to me wrong to have a trade agreement like this if it were signed with Russia, because Putin is not holy of my devotion. Neither is China, so I can see that I'm going further. You have a better deal with China, and so you sign the agreements that you sign to shield them from justice, than I would do for your clumsiness. Therefore, this is not a logic of confrontation, from 1990 to the past, because I do still defend internationalism, even proletarian internationalism, Mr Damborenea. That's probably why we agree on so few things. And as little more has said than that, little more I can tell you. If anything, this is obviously not the main reason for my concerns today, and I suppose not even those of the majority in this House. With the one that's falling up there, it would happen to us like Abraracúrcix: we are more afraid that the sky will fall on our heads than what will come out of this vote. But, going back to the subject, you and the Socialist Party and also UPyD and also the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party, in the text they have signed, point to a number of issues that they believe will lead to their being excluded from the final negotiation. If that's what I've said before, clearly! The TISA, which is a state-of-the-art treaty, just as this one is going to be; the NAFTA itself, which is a treaty very equivalent to this one, already incorporate the clause of the trench. And the trinket clause allows that what is taken out of the negotiation in the course of the negotiation can be incorporated later, without the need to be subjected again to any kind of public or political control. That's the real trap transnationals make. That is why your text, with all due respect and without questioning the good intention that has prompted you to do so, is nothing but wet paper. Because the essence of the treaty itself, in the way it is built, as a last generation treaty that incorporates the trench clause, allows you here today, and tomorrow and when it is necessary, to say what you want, and then transnationals, and that is so, to incorporate everything you want a posteriori. That's the real trap. That is why I do not question your noblest instincts to bring all these issues into play. What I'm questioning is that you don't realize what I'm telling you. And, honestly, I don't believe it. And since I don't believe it, I leave it there. Because, if I don't think you don't realize it, what I have to conclude is even worse and I would surely spoil even more of our own already seems to be devalued relationships. The representative of the Basque Nationalist Party pointed out to us a question that is true. I don't deny it. For us, this is a very clear example of the confrontational scheme between two models. I didn't hide that and I didn't dress up today to say that. What I brought here today is a consultation. And I said that in that consultation you will defend the goodness of that final agreement and we will defend the threats it poses to the whole population. I have raised only a scenario where we apparently and a priori leave in a situation of equality, in addition to deposit the whole decision in the citizenry. I haven't told you any more, I haven't entered into any other kind of considerations. And it draws my attention to the fact that you use the attendance data for demonstrations as an element that you say you are not going to use to question it or ridicule it, but do it in some way. I could do the same, what I know, with the assistance of not knowing what your rallies and then the reality would tell me otherwise, for example, in Lazkao; or the two million signatures there have been. That's why I think it's a bad argument and that's why I'm not going to use it. I'll fix you something. You voted against the referendum, and voted on 7 May 2014 with the PP, with the PSOE, with UPyD and with ICU. That is the vote that Plural Left promoted and to which you voted against on the first two points. And finally, a question, because I see that I have run out of time, in relation to the Socialist Party and the issues you have said. I don't come here to sell anything. I come to move a confrontational position of the trade unions as a whole, from a lot of social movements against the TTIP. As simple as that. You defend and explain how you want what you have to explain, but it's not about selling anything. I have told you that you can consult, I have not told you when. Therefore, it is not out of place, even if there is no text now; it will be done when there is text. Well, let's make that, let's do it in 2017, let's make a commitment in this House to do it when the text is known. You guys jump over it, you elude it. And, with all due respect, that you talk to me about coherence, when you have probably made a very strong digestion of what the Socialist Party, the referendum, NATO and the decision in Hego Euskal Herria has brought about some hilarity. Certain hilarity; not too much, but some hilarity. And that you allude me to the results for the reflection that we have to do, for, Mr Unzalu, with all due respect, you will be bloated by the election results, but I also do not think that yours are to launch into the most overflowing euphoria.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u65	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Basque Socialists. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u66	Let's see, Mr. Matute. You have put forward a consultation here and I have given you a reflection on that consultation. We're not analyzing election results or anything. You are proposing a consultation on a subject and have denied for four years other much closer consultations. That's what I told you. And you have not denied in your electoral analyses that it has had a negative impact on your votes in Gipuzkoa. That's what there is. However, as far as the issue we are dealing with is concerned, we are going to try to condition everything that the final agreement can be, and that has been the position of the Socialist and Democratic Group in the European Parliament and we are going to continue to do so as long as we have the opportunity to do so. And, in particular, you said in the first speech – and you did not give me time to answer it – that there was no transparency at all. I recognize him and I've recognized him there hasn't been. But it is precisely in the discussions in the International Trade Commission that concrete guidelines have been adopted, concrete positions have been adopted to take account of the negotiating committee. And in subparagraph (e), which speaks of transparency, civil society participation and public and political dissemination, what was adopted on 28 May is to increase the transparency of negotiations by making negotiating proposals available to the general public; to ensure that these transparency efforts translate into meaningful practical results, including the access of Members of the European Parliament to all negotiating documents, including consolidated texts; and to encourage all interested parties to participate actively and to propose initiatives and information relevant to the negotiations. And I can continue reading up to seven points on ensuring transparency. That's what we've been trying to do. On the subject of social services, there is also subparagraph (c), which speaks of coherence and cooperation in the area of regulation. He says: "ensure the highest level of protection of legislation in the areas of health and safety, as well as of consumers, workers, the environment and social welfare." And with regard to ILO rules and agreements, as amended by the Socialist Group and voted by the United Left in that International Trade Commission, it says: "To ensure that the chapter on sustainable development is binding, enforceable and aims at the full and effective ratification, implementation and enforcement of the eight core conventions of the International Labour Organization and their content, the ILO Decent Work Programme and key international environmental agreements; the provisions must aim to further improve the levels of protection of labour and environmental standards". This is what was adopted on the 28th, this is what is on the table, what is back to the Committee on International Trade and what may be re-voted by the European Parliament: setting Parliament's position to guide the Commission in its negotiation. This is the effort being made. And, I've told you before and I'll tell you again, we're waiting for the deal. Because the agreement may not be good and the agreement may not ultimately be supported by the groups that have supported these guidelines. Because we have supported establishing a position, guiding the Commission in the negotiation. But we have not said that we agree with him, that we vote in favour of any agreement. We are in favour of the negotiation, and once the negotiation is concluded, a position will be taken in the light of what is agreed there. And that's our position. No more. Thank you very much. Ah! And with regard to the compromise amendment, we do not support the consultation. But if you look at the last point, you say that from civil society and the Basque institutions there is a campaign to inform the public about these matters, because, as I said in my first intervention, in order for there to be a decision free of citizenship, the first thing there must be is all the information that is possible about this and that is what we propose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u67	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Misto-UPyD shouldn't talk. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u68	I was only commenting that Ekologistak Martxan on his website reported on the demonstrations that were called against the TTIP on April 19, and said that they were a success. I just read the numbers they gave. The Lazkao theme. I just saw the photo he's referring to. It seems to me, frankly, surprising that you make these kind of allusions. It is a small electoral event that must have been very successful, given that we have obtained absolute majority in Lazkao in these past municipal elections, in which some chair is occupied and also the chairs of the back bar are seen. But, well, if this is the level of a parliamentary debate, let us assume it. As far as amending the error and voting is concerned, you refer to a vote in 2014, on a Plural Left initiative. I have read to you the literal paragraph of the Journal of Sessions of Congress, of a much more recent debate, on April 22, 2015, at the initiative of Amaiur. In that sense, perhaps the amendment is already made. Then, on the subject of consultation, we are first talking about a subject that is being negotiated. What we are all appealing to is for the bodies directly concerned by that negotiation to make an exercise of transparency, which appears to be being drawn recently, but for a long time it has been absolute opacity that has been raised in those negotiations. In fact, at the first point in our compromise amendment we ask the European Commission to take on the principle of transparency at once. You yourself have said that it does not happen; so much so that the MEPs have to get into a small room with a paper and a pencil to take notes, under the careful look of a trusted official, is supposed to be the Council of Europe in turn or the European Commission in turn. And then, on what basis, on what information do you intend a consultation to be convened? On the notes taken in pencil by certain MEPs? What we urge in the compromise that we have signed, and which I assume will be adopted in good logic, is that the Madrid Government informs the Basque Government, to transfer the information it has on this subject, in accordance with Article 20.5 of the Statute of Autonomy, that "the Basque Government will be informed in the elaboration of the treaties and conventions as well as of the draft customs legislation, as they affect matters of specific interest to the Basque Country". There is no doubt that the content of the TTIP directly affects the competences of the Basque Country. And we therefore believe that, pursuant to Article 20.5, Mr Rajoy's Government, or any one who comes later, would have to report in due course to the Basque Government. To date, of course, they have not. What I do not know is whether because of sin of own opacity or because in turn you suffer that opacity that you affirm with so much force that exists and that until recently it was, existed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Finally, the Euskal Potula Group representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u70	Mr Matute, I did not know that the countries of Eastern Europe are no longer east of Europe, but are elsewhere. As far as I know, none have moved. Now, there has been someone who has tried to make a treaty with the European Union and the neighbour next door has invaded it. So, if you were referring to politics, it seems we haven't changed much, have we? Because that did happen. In the case of Ukraine, negotiations with the European Union cause enough to invade a country. The paranoias to make things up are already... That the transactional ones, after signing, will be able to put things in the text. I have explained to you how it is adopted and who votes on the text, if at the end there is text. You can't come here saying that if a transnational... Neither transnational nor individual, come on, someone is going to change the texts adopted in the European Union, in the European Parliament and in the Member States. And I'm just going to remind you of one thing. Look, this started in 1990 – we are in 2015, was President Jacques Delors in 1990 – at the initiative of the European Union. Nothing's ever come forward. So I guess the American transnationals weren't very interested in the subject. And it has now advanced that there is a president named Obama, because with the previous ones it advanced zero. Now there's something moving forward. And perhaps, because they have that president, he is at the same time negotiating another parallel treaty with Asian countries. But because there's that president. And when you stop being, don't worry, that maybe we still don't have any free trade agreements with the United States. With which, you will applaud a lot, you will have a great time, but European and American citizens will have lost.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u71	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 53; white, 0; abstenations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u72	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, Mistto-UPyD, Euskal Socialists, and Ease Abertarians, we vote for the middle-line correction that has been signed by the teams. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 21; white, 0; abstations are 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u73	The central correction has been approved. The fifth point in the subject-list, as well as the Socialist Party, has been withdrawn: "The other proposal as a team of the Misto-UPyD legislatures was made about to be removed from the Chief Director of the Union's subway by the complication in which Pinsolo was discovered in the project." The group's turn to make a suggestion. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and get rid of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u74	Thank you, President. I am now defending an initiative that was registered on 15 December. There has been no debate until today because the appearances of a number of people whose stories could be interesting to shed light on this issue were pending. As I will explain later, some of these representatives have not finally appeared in the relevant committee, but, in any case, we already have enough information. We know the facts not only to defend the original initiative, but also to defend a transaction that we have signed with the People's Group. A compromise which is more complete than the original initiative and which reflects some of the approaches contained in the amendment of the whole or in the non-legislative proposal which the Socialist Group has recorded and which, perhaps not so surprisingly, today morning has decided to withdraw. We, in this compromise amendment signed with the Group of the European People's Party, basically propose two things. That the Basque Parliament require the representatives of the Basque Government on the Board of Directors of Metro Bilbao to promote the cessation and immediate dismissal of his post from the current managing director, Mr Eneko Arruebarrena. And, on the other hand, we call on this Parliament to reassert the absolutely unacceptable attitude of the Environment and Territorial Policy Councilwoman for her refusal during all these months, in the eyes of everyone, to account for Parliament's control of government acts. What is proposed here, what I have signed with the People's Group, is something that we have been defending all the groups in the House in recent months, except the Basque Nationalist Group. Finally, a transaction has been signed between the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, whose fundamental objective is to cover up their shames, as I will explain later. I am not going to go in and explain in detail what happened in the Pinosolo scandal. We all know exactly what happened there. But I want, at least schematically, succinctly, to point out everything that has happened in this scandal over the past few years and what we are talking about. When we talk about Pinosolo, we are talking about repeated breaches of the Public Sector Contracts Act, we are talking about a bad management developed by the Leioa City Council, we are talking about waste of public money, we are talking about political clientelism. We talk about urban ballad, we talk about free travel for public office fees paid by contracting companies, we talk about threats, we talk about influence trafficking. We are also talking about rotating doors or the relocation of public offices in certain public enterprises; in this particular case, the relocation of the mayor of Leioa, Mr.Eneko Arruebarrena, as manager of Metro Bilbao. We're talking about discretion and arbitrariness. We speak of the existence of prior concertation in the award of the contest of the sports complex Pinosolo, according to the Basque Authority of the Competition itself. We're talking about overcosts in public works. We're talking about insider dealing and third-party damage. In short, we are talking about clear indications of political corruption. Many of these issues were reflected in the opinion and conclusions of the committee of inquiry which worked for a few months at the Leioa City Council and which, by the way, did not count on the cooperation and participation of the mayor, the Basque Nationalist Party or the councillor of the same party, Mr Jon Loizaga. They refused to participate in the commission of inquiry. In spite of that, despite these obstacles posed by the Basque Nationalist Party to know exactly what had happened there, it was possible to know what had happened and we have an opinion, known to all of you. An opinion which is very forceful in relation to this scandal (Pinosolo scandal) and which speaks of irregularities, speaks of waste and mismanagement and which points to a number of political responsibilities. Therefore, let us say that these two points that we defend in this transactional are defended in parallel, but separately. One thing is the irregularities produced in the Pinosolo case, one thing is the waste of public money that has occurred in relation to this scandal, one thing is the political responsibilities pointed out in that own opinion, and another is the absolutely unacceptable attitude of the Councilwoman of the Environment and Territorial Policy during all these months. The Commissioner for the Environment and Territorial Policy in this Parliament has been asked on several occasions about this matter by different groups, and she has repeatedly, over and over again, refused to respond to the parliamentary groups. He has refused to talk about the question he was asked about, showing an absolutely unacceptable preponderance and a lack of respect that we at least want to condemn and reject decisively in this Parliament. Oral questions, interpellations and her own appearance: an absolute shame the attitude of the Environmental and Territorial Policy Adviser. This is a decision she made freely. She could have answered the questions, she could have defended what she had considered, she could have appeared on that committee to explain her position and the position of the Government in relation to the maintenance of Eneko Arruebarrena as manager of the Bilbao Metro. He didn't do it, he didn't want to do it. He did not answer the questions and lacked the absolute respect of the House. That is why this compromise amendment signed with the Group of the European People's Party reflects those two differentiated points, which arise from the same case but which respond to different situations. We therefore call for immediate dismissal, for the Basque Government to do everything possible to immediately remove Mr Eneko Arruebarrena, and we also ask that, in view of his attitude, this Parliament should repudiate the Councilwoman for her unacceptable behaviour during all these months. I myself was in favour of asking directly for the dismissal of the Counsellor. I say that her attitude has been voluntary, no one forced her to behave that way. He did it freely, he did it because he wanted to, he did it without any explanation, rather than saving the Basque Government's ballot. Finally, we have taken the approach initially rightly put forward by the Socialist Group, which called for the reprobation of the Councilwoman herself. That is why we have signed that transaction with the People's Group. On the one hand, immediate dismissal of Mr Arruebarrena; on the other hand, reprobation of the counsellor for her attitude. The Socialist Group has taken a step back, it has agreed with the Basque Nationalist Group. They will know the content of their secret covenants. You will have an opportunity to explain them, also in relation to this which you have signed. They will have to explain it to their activists, they will have to explain it to all the parliamentarians who make up their parliamentary group, they will have to explain it to society. But I have to say that it certainly seems to me to be an absolutely shameful agreement. The Socialist Group has been very critical all these months in relation to the Pinosolo scandal. The Socialist Group asked the Councilwoman on the matter, the Socialist Group considered it unacceptable and unacceptable that the Councilwoman herself should appear in that committee. The Socialist Group has drafted a full amendment calling for the reprobation of this Councillor, and it turns out that today morning we are presented with a compromise signed with the Basque Nationalist Group to save this Councillor. You'll know why. It is clear that it is a pact again signed between the Basque Nationalist group and the Socialist Group to cover up their own shames, to defend their own partisan interests. In short, this will be valued by everyone as they see it. We have been consistent throughout all these months. The People's Group too, here is its amendment and here is the transactional signature. I thank the People's Group for its willingness to sign this transactional. The EH Bildu group has also been strong over these long months in relation to this whole matter. I suppose you will also vote in favour of this compromise. We are certainly not going to get this agreement to come out, because the Socialist Group again – there have been other times when something like this has happened – decides to agree at the last minute with the Basque Nationalist group to correct everything it has said during these months and save the government. And that said, and in conclusion on this issue, I must also say that it seems absolutely unacceptable to me that different people's appearances have been prevented throughout all these months. I have to say that we are asking for the appearance of three people who had a lot to say on this issue, back in December 2014, and until this very week we have had no resolution on the issue, because first the appearance of these people has been boycotted and then the table of the relevant committee prevented those appearances from taking place. These people who were going to appear had a lot to say, and this is also a lack of respect, not to Parliament, but to all the citizens: preventing a number of people who have a lot to say about this issue from finally appearing so that the citizens cannot know the whole truth. This is also regrettable. All this explains, therefore, the signing of this transactional. Two clear and direct points, two points that have been defended by all the groups in the House, except the Basque Nationalist Party, until this very morning. The Socialist Group finally decides to help the Basque Nationalist Party to cover up its own shames. Certainly unfortunate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u75	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, almost good afternoon now, everyone. It's true that we were going to discuss... in the end only one, but we were going to discuss two initiatives relating to what is known, and is well known, as the Pinosolo case. It is true that our group had tabled a third initiative, which could not be discussed, but which is incorporated as an amendment. And in the two initiatives that were to be discussed, but finally in the compromise amendment that we signed with the UPyD Group, the various prisms of this matter are discussed, which had also been raised by this group, both through that initiative that could not be discussed and from the questions that were asked here to the Counsellor. I do want to refer to what happened in Leioa, because that explains why the requests contained in that amendment are made. At the end of last year the research paper created within the City Council to clarify and, if necessary, determine the existence or not of political responsibilities in this matter concluded the work. The presentation drew up a final opinion, endorsed by the absolute majority of the municipal council, in which the representativeness of the neighbours of Leioa resided. And those conclusions did not leave any doubt, quite the contrary. What they were doing was putting black on white a multitude of irregularities, a huge number of decisions, in the best of the wrong cases, and a political and economic management that can only be described as absolutely harmful. To this must be added an attitude that has been shown to be an attitude of absolute lack of institutional respect. Indeed, the economic management around this issue has been clearly improved in Leioa. We are, without a doubt, facing the most expensive sportsman in the history of Euskadi. A phantom polysport, which, without placing a single brick, has already cost almost two million euros, without prejudice to the compensations that can subsequently be derived. Besides that, we had another project, that of the Torresolo pools, in which there was an increase of 54% of the initial price. In other words, Leioa's neighbours are going to have to pay for Mr Arruebarrena's poor management, which amounts to almost EUR 4 million. With this background, what we were wondering, the question that could no doubt be asked is whether Mr Arruebarrena offered guarantees for the proper management of an entity such as Metro Bilbao, which handles an important budget. Secondly, we must also reflect on Mr Arruebarrena's attitude and whether or not the ethical code applies to him. As I said before, the former mayor of Leioa has shown a lack of institutional respect, an absolutely arrogant attitude. He has refused to appear up to two times in the research paper created in the City Hall, thus demonstrating a lack of political will to shed a minimum of light to help clarify what has happened. An incomprehensible and disrespectful attitude, mainly with the neighbours of Leioa, who chose him and to whom he owed the explanations. And this attitude has persisted later, because he has not been able to face it, and he only came to this House because he was quoted. Therefore, an absolute arrogance and political cowardice, and an attitude that, as I say, reiterated here, which came only out of obligation. As Mr Maneiro said, I would like to recall that there have been very serious and very serious issues in this process: Officials threatened by political leaders who continued in office with the acquiescence of Mr Arruebarrena. Joint trips of political leaders of the City Council of Leioa with representatives of the company that was finally awarded the contest. Dismissal of staff members for being literally removed from any decision-making process. Publications in the municipal magazine a year in advance of the beginning of the process of bidding very concrete details of the project that later turned out to be winner. Award to a particular company, despite the fact that the winning project had serious deficiencies and differences with respect to what was required in the specification. Ad hoc selection of project assessors. Filtration of the report prepared by one of the companies, which had initially been selected to evaluate and which, after knowledge of the existence of the famous plan was removed, but, yes, those reports were filtered to the third company that replaced it, thus fully polluting the selection process of the bids submitted. Several are the protagonists in this whole case: Arcain, Pujol Arquitectura, the company Aros, Viuda de Sainz. But the main actor, without a doubt, Mr Arruebarrena, the most responsible politician. As I said at the end of the oral question, ethical and conduct standards must be a maximum to promote effective action in political management, as well as to preserve and strengthen citizen confidence. These standards consist of excellence, efficiency, impartiality, transparency, objectivity and exemplaryness. These are values that are consubstantial, or at least should be, to the management of any public official. We, I told the councilwoman at the time, share all these approaches, approaches which in theory and in their entirety were contained in the ethical code adopted by the Government. But, of course, the management in the Pinosolo case, the management and the behaviour of Mr Arruebarrena, are totally contrary to these principles that I have just explained, they are totally contrary to the spirit and the letter of the ethical code. The same can be said of the attitude maintained by the Counsellor, who, in the answers she gave us both to the question and later in the committees in which she was asked to appear, has shown that the ethical code is nothing but a wet paper for her, a simple declaration of intentions that has no value, a mere procedure. Of course, it is more a political propaganda exercise than a code to which neither Mr Arruebarrena nor the councilwoman herself would like to submit. He was asked for explanations, explanations of whether it seemed right to him that someone with those precedents, with that harmful economic management, with that lack of institutional respect, Mr Arruebarrena, was in a position to stay in his post, and he limited himself to telling us about the number of subway passengers and the punctuality of the subway. It is an absolute lack of respect for this House, an absolute lack of respect. The truth is that this councillor, like the Basque Nationalist Party, demands from others what does not apply to itself. And instead of recognizing that Mr Arruebarrena's attitude does not make him worthy at all of being maintained, neither by political management, nor by any of the characteristics of an ethical code to which he is supposed to submit, it does not make him worthy of continuing in the position in which he is, far from recognizing that, what they do is a flight forward and they answer with evasive. It is true that the case is judicialized, and beyond the responsibilities that, in their case, the courts may or may not determine, what is clear – and we want to reiterate it here – what all the objective data say is that Mr Arruebarrena in his public administration has shown that he has done so absolutely inappropriately, absolutely irresponsible, causing serious economic damage. And, of course, their attitude at that time, throughout that process, throughout the entire committee of inquiry and then has been absolutely contrary to ethics. He does not know what excellence is, what objectivity is in decision-making, what effectiveness is, what institutional respect is. There have been well-founded suspicions of possible corruption. As has been said here, the Contracts Act has been breached and the requirements set out in the Code of Ethics have been breached. That is why we have signed this compromise, which was part of our amendment, on our original initiative: to ask that every effort be made to remove Mr Arruebarrena from office. But also, as we at the time asked about the code of ethics, we have included an initiative that now seems to have been withdrawn, and that is to reproach the Councilwoman's attitude, because she has also shown an absolute lack of respect for this House. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u77	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u78	Thank you, President. The Socialists on this issue have always maintained, from the beginning to today, the criterion of demanding strict application of the Code of Ethics by the Basque Government with regard to the role now occupied by Mr Arruebarrena, former mayor of Leioa. A code of ethics and conduct that is not to get headlines and look, but to be applied. It was at the time a unilateral initiative of the Government and linked to the senior officials appointed by it. And that's fine with us. See if it would seem to us that what the current government sold as an innovator was already done by the previous government, that of the lehendakari Patxi López. But the code is not to display it in a showcase, but to be truly fulfilled, so that citizens can perceive that public actions are presided over by honesty, good management, exemplaryness and transparency. It is clear that these principles are under suspicion from the moment when one of the public offices designated by this government, the managing director of Metro Bilbao, has demonstrated, in our view, significant shortcomings in the management of public resources. It is true that this episode refers to his management as mayor of Leioa. But this seems to be a relevant public post and now occupies another relevant public post, where it must also manage public money. And that's the question that brings us here, not whether or not we open an oral trial. It is not a question of questioning the civil or criminal responsibility of Mr Eneko Arruebarrena, but of believing that we believe that his capacity as public manager has been questioned. And it draws our attention, very much, to the reluctance of this Government to act in this area with the code of ethics in hand. A few months ago, after the appointment of the current Employment Adviser, when a complaint was made that questioned a private performance as a competition manager before joining the Executive, it was, not the opposition, the lehendakari himself who raised the case to the ethical commission. And the socialists seemed good to us, we thought it was good that those who should occupy a position of that responsibility should do so by pre-empting any suspicion. The problem is that when there is, in this particular case, a widely shared municipal research work in the City of Leioa, which concludes that there was money from citizens that was wasted on contracts and in unclear and, in any case, inefficient management, the Government does not want to talk about it, even though the person who now runs Metro Bilbao was at that time the most responsible for the City of Leioa. It is clear that this Government trusts someone whom we all consider not to be an appropriate person to direct the subway and the substantial resources allocated to this infrastructure. And it is clear that the government, at least, makes a somewhat distracted use of the ethical code: in this case it does, because it suits me, and in this case it does not, because I do not care. That is why it is so important to have a transparency law that really imposes clear obligations and does not depend, as in this case, on commitments of free accession. A law, by the way, which is still pending today because of the clumsiness of this Government. I would like to remind you that the main argument we put forward to express our rejection of the transparency rules proposed by the Government was, in addition to being incorporated into another law, that of public administration, its timid nature as regards the requirement of different administrations, and that it also lacked a sanctioning regime in case of non-compliance. And all the house. That short law brought by the Government was in the process in March and its formulation showed the Government's little conviction in a real bet on radical transparency. And the facts proved it then, because on those same dates a protective curtain was stretched towards a high office, Mr Arruebarrena, whose deficiencies in the management of the public had been exposed in a previous post. And then there was the shameful, pitiful and disrespectful attitude, Madam Counsellor, at the appearance in this Parliament of the Bilbao Metro station occupied by Mr Arruebarrena. He was asked for explanations and you looked somewhere else. Because embarrassing, unfortunate and disrespectful is that the counselor is questioned about the reasons why she keeps someone at the front of the subway who has demonstrated his managerial limitations and that she answers that question by weighing the punctuality of the subway. It is a lack of respect that my colleague Txarli Prieto asked you repeatedly at that appearance whether he intended to refer this subject to the ethical code, yes or no, and you again insisted on the punctuality of the subway cars. That is a lack of respect for this House and we are still waiting, by the way, for a correction or an apology on your part. Because when we parliamentarians ask for clarification, we have to be given. That, in addition to being regulatory and politically enforceable, was also reflected in the ethical code adopted by his Government. Read it again in detail and, above all, apply rigorously, not cosmetically, what it says about exemplaryness, responsibility in management, transparency and honesty in the exercise of public office, that which it must not only be, but seem to be. The Government has already written down what it has to do. And that is why it is common sense that, as the compromise amendment accepted by the Basque Nationalist Party points out, the situation of the managing director of Metro Bilbao is subject to the criteria of the Public Ethics Commission, given the irregularities detected in the construction of Pinosolo's polysports when he occupied the city hall of Leioa. Look at what we would all have saved if you had put in place a procedure that was established by you when you entered this government from the 1st minute. It is the least that can be done if it is to be consistent with the commitments made in the Code of Ethics. What we do not understand is why it was not done from the very beginning, before the opposition parties highlighted the absolute incongruity of placing in a position of great responsibility who had revealed himself as a lesser evil, at least as mayor of Leioa. As far as the Counsellor is concerned, we would like to see our most serious criticism recorded for an attitude which, of course, clashs with transparency and respect for this House and for the parliamentarians you have appeared before this House. Let us understand that that attitude responded to that real lack of commitment to the real transparency that the Government has and that was reflected in the draft law on public administration, a regulation that fortunately now – by force they hang – will have to accommodate what the majority of this Parliament thinks. As early as November, with another request for reprobation by another member of the Government, Mr Erkoreka, the Socialists show our rejection of the attitude of the spokesman for the controversial aid to the News Group and the majority of Parliament understand that that public reprobation was sufficient. At this time and on this occasion, we hope that the willingness of the Government to agree will be demonstrated by real facts, both in the reformulation of the bill that has been forced to withdraw in terms of transparency and in accordance with the most diligent request to be made by this House for the Public Ethics Commission to decide whether or not the mayor of Leioa meets the requirements of this Government for the performance of his high office, in particular, in this case, to be at the head of Metro Bilbao.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u79	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Zurrill, the Eubertarian, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. This subject has two different sides, striking different ones. First of all, a council party. For there are some who wish to speak of a particular project, of a precise contract, and of a particular township. From our point of view, that doesn't concern the Chamber and the Red Muncher. In our opinion, there's no sense here in the Basque Act, the discussion of the contract and design of a township. In that sense, some of them try, intentionally, interestedly, and in the party, to carry the discussions of a municipal project into another area, to mix it up, to attack fun. If what you say is true and demonstrates and demonstrates, go to the judicial road and wait until it is a judicial resolution. And, on the other hand, in addition to the municipal side, there is the side that questions the management and professionalism capacity of the managing director of Metro Bilbao, in which the Basque Government, as an integral part of the board of directors of Metro Bilbao, has to assess what work Mr Arruebarrena has done and is performing at the head of this institution. And, in this sense, and leaving aside his brilliant academic background, the ability and professionalism of the managing director of Metro Bilbao is beyond doubt and is supported by the evolution of the results of society since the beginning of 2013, in which he was appointed, to date. Some data that the counselor has already provided. The executive structure has been thinned, substantially reducing the cost; social peace has been achieved, with union representation agreeing a collective agreement for the years 2013, 2014 and 2015. The absenteeism levels by disease have been reduced to a record level in Metro Bilbao. Travellers who use the metro for their mobility needs value the service with a rating of 8.16. Regular and special services that had previously been reduced have been recovered. The company's coverage rate reaches 85.13%, the best of the year in public transport at state level. The reliability of the service reaches 99.86 and the punctuality 98.23 %. We know that this aspect, they have repeatedly expressed, is not of interest to them. They are not interested in the management of Metro Bilbao, the management of Mr Arruebarrena at the head of Metro Bilbao, but the Basque society does know all this data and many more that are in the memories of Metro Bilbao and that show that Mr Arruebarrena is doing a good job at the head of Metro Bilbao. In front of this, what do we find? We find opposition groups that base their entire argument on two issues. Firstly, in conclusions of a research paper held at the Leioa City Council, which, as you will understand, meets all the criteria contrary to what justice should be. We understand that justice must be independent and impartial; in this research paper, the conclusions are political, partial, interested and partisan, since this is a political paper made up of political groups, with political interests, which, in several cases, converge on their objective, to strike at the Basque Nationalist Party. And secondly, some also base it on a resolution of the Basque Competition Authority, which sanctions two companies, but no, Mr. Maneiro – more rigorously, does not sanction, as he says in his GNP – the Leioa City Council or any autonomous body dependent on the City Council, whose highest representative and responsible would be the mayor. And all this serves them in the best style of the Inquisition to say that the facts are proved, that those responsible are appointed, and they issue their sentence, claiming their civilian death, their disqualification for the exercise of any public office. And because they can't execute him! In the commission it was even said that luck was cast, and it was only missing that Mr. Maneiro, emulating some Roman emperor, made the typical gesture of execution. That's all he missed in that commission. And all this, and we must say it loudly, about a person who is not even accused, Mrs Llanos. She's not even charged. Which seems to us to be a real barbarity. And we also understand that they forget two fundamental principles of a democratic rule of law. First, the separation of powers: you yourselves attribute the function of denouncing, investigating, judging and condemning. On the other hand, the presumption of innocence, which is enshrined in article 11 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and article 24.2 of the Spanish Constitution, constitutes a fundamental right and one of the pillars of the legal system in democratic states, both extrajudicially and at all stages of criminal proceedings. And this is unlike an inquisitorial system, in which it was sufficient that there was a criminal complaint against a person and the reference of his commission by two witnesses so that the reputation of the accused could be questioned; even a warrant for arrest was generated. And this is what you claim, an inquisitorial system. With regard to Mr Maneiro's approach, we are not at all surprised, because, as I said on one occasion in private, a parliamentarian must be required to be more rigorous and more responsible, and most of the time we have already seen him acting in the ear or looking for the big headline. Allow me a football simile, Mr. Maneiro. In this case and in most cases, you like to play in embarrassing terrain. And, what's more, you yourself like to overwater the playground and then, in your sauce, try to distribute firewood to the right and wrong and play kick, without any modesty or rigor. You also said, Mr Maneiro, in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that you expected the citizens to act accordingly. And yes, the citizenry has spoken and has also shown you, UPyD, that your strategy of excessive theatricalization is not credible. On the other hand, we are surprised by the attitude of the People's Party. Man, let the People's Party stand here in adalid of political ethics and the cleansing of administrations, who wants to give us lessons in this matter, is surprising at least. I'm going to return the words that I addressed to the councilwoman in full control of her: "Advices I sell, which I don't have." And abounding more, I will use, with the permission of the Madam President, an expression that comes to the thread and that was uttered by a party partner, that precisely these previous weeks has also been in the media for alleged topics we are talking about, and that is not by popular no longer soez. His partner Trillo said, "Send some eggs!". Yes, send eggs, Mrs. Llanos! Barcenes, Fabra, Blesa, Matas, Mouse... Quiet, quiet, I am not going to list all of them, because, if not, I would not have time in my first round or in the second round to mention all the people of the People's Party who are convicted and prosecuted with the opening of an oral trial or with interim judicial measures, without entering into other ethical issues. His party's credibility in this matter is zero, and so has the citizens just two weeks ago. Our parliamentary group, our party, is clear that every means must be put in place to put an end to political corruption and that decisive action must be taken against the corrupt, but also respect the presumption of innocence and establish all the necessary procedural guarantees in order to avoid taking unjust, illegal, irreparable and disproportionate measures against an innocent person. Our whole amendment was in line with what was proposed and approved by our party, the People's Party – yes, Mrs Llanos, this also approved your People's Party at the Bizkaia General Councils – and the Socialist Party at the Bizkaia General Councils a few months ago, at the very request of the Socialist Group, in order to move away from the public offices to which they are given an opening of an oral trial for corruption-related crimes, all in order to strike a balance between the presumption of innocence and the strengthening of transparency and the fight against corruption. And, in this line, we endorse what was stated in the writing of the non-normal proposal by the socialist spokesman, Mr Egaña, who said: "All illegal activity must be demonstrated, at least at the level of indication; otherwise the principle of presumption of innocence could be violated. And given that the Spanish penal system is currently proceeding to remove any person who is alleged to be accused, in order to guarantee his right to a fair defence, we consider it more appropriate that the measure of ceasing him from office be taken at the time of the opening of an oral trial." This was said and we fully ratified it. At that time, in the order for the opening of an oral trial, it is when a judicial, impartial and independent body understands that there are rational indications of criminality. In this case, Mr. Barrieves hasn't even opened a car for a verbal trial and hasn't even been booked. Finally, we have reached a compromise amendment with the Socialist Group, to which we are grateful for its willingness to reach agreement, in order to continue to maintain strict application of the standards of exemplary and honest public management and to urge the Government to transfer to the Public Ethics Commission the situation of the current managing director of the public society Metro Bilbao in relation to Pinosolo's polysport in Leioa. And all this, even though it is not directly affected by the ethical code, that is, its position does not appear in the catalogue of public offices concerned. However, with this compromise, we are submitting to the committee's opinion. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u81	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing to a group that has no corrections, the representative of the EH Collector. Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u82	Good afternoon. The Basque Country thinks it unnecessary to collect more information about Pinsolo, and it's enough to prove that it's a case of corruption. The information there is, and it is plain what happened in the case of Pinsolos, and who are the politicians. Pinosolo was not an isolated case. Pinosolo shows how some understand politics: pre-contracting, travel with public money, pressure and threats to workers in response to complaints are some of the acts that took place at the Leioa City Hall under Arruebarrena's mandate. In the face of such acts, the PNV decided to raise Arruebarrena to the director of Metro Bilbao, just before all this data was made public. It is clear that Arruebarrena has managed to defend himself as a public official and that his position of responsibility does not endanger, at least if it depends on this government, and always under the protection of the Bilbao City Council and the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry, all these institutions governed by the Basque Nationalist Party. At this time, EH Collect has asked for a number of matches in this Chamber. We've been asked to come to the committees, to know the level of how political leaders have had a hand in the affair. However, some of the yellow reportmen were thrown back by the tables of the commissions. This is the way this legislature does things, which is used to cover its cares, and serves to avoid explaining them. "Es es el modos operandi de cómo se hacen las croas en este Parlamento." Responsibilities between you are covered and explanations are thus avoided. Today it seems that what was a clear position on the part of the Socialist Group has fallen. Those who asked to reprimand the counselor now sign with the PNV an empty, contentless text that covers the PNV and its shames. In fact, they have been grateful for this. Today his earlier speech on Pinosolo serves no purpose, since perhaps the agreements between parties have weighed more than the demand for clarification and clearance of responsibilities in an obvious case of corruption, friendship and political clientelism. We want to know at what price or city council they have sold their vote. Today is not a happy day in this House. Today politicians are again hiding among themselves so that the truth is not known, today a political majority will refuse to clean up responsibilities, today citizens will be further away from what they were yesterday from politics and will rely even less on political representatives. There is an amendment that maintains the old demands of the PES, pre-electoral, and it is the one signed by the People's Party and UPyD, and we will have to vote on it with our noses covered; and we want them to explain to us beforehand where the issue of rotating doors has remained, a point that has disappeared from their transaction. But being consistent with the positive vote that we were going to give to the two initiatives that were brought here today, voting in favour seems to us to be the right thing to do. The failure of the Commissioner for the Environment and Territorial Policy, Mrs Oregi, to report on Parliament's control of government acts is necessary. I remember at least twice when I advised her, to this parliamentarian's question regarding her confidence in Arruebarrena after knowing the corruption data in Pinosolo, she has answered me about the subway schedules. I am already an expert on Bilbao metro timetables; however, I still do not know what the Government's position is with regard to Arruebarrena. It is clear that the Councilwoman has not facilitated parliamentary control, it is clear that her objective was to cover up and distort the debate in Parliament, and it is clear that the Councilwoman does not respect this House. We do not understand why the PSE has withdrawn the initiative; as much as we have been explained, we cannot understand it. It is not the gravest or most important thing that this chief physician has done. One must remember, for example, one of the things that are in that list between the wrong ones: The Gastian Mountain has a commission from this parliament to make the park natural, but the chief physician has not fulfilled this commission. For this reason, we ask you to respond to a proposal that I am launching from here, and I ask you, please, to respond to me in your second speech: if for you, as you have said at least so far, the attitude of the Counsellor is not acceptable to your level of responsibility, EH Bildu has prepared the motion of censure of this Counsellor. We are prepared to present it if the rest of the opposition groups support the proposal. It's not a question of reprobation. If there is a problem in the Government, let us help solve it. EH Bildu is willing to do so. Today, I repeat again, it is not a day to rejoice at the result of what has been signed and fucked. Today, the message we send to citizens, or at least the message from the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, is that there is absolutely nothing wrong with corruption and that those responsible for corruption are rewarded and defended so that they never have to pay for their actions. It's not a day for you to be proud, although maybe Saturday at some town hall you can do it after this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u83	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Passing on the answering shift, Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u84	Thank you, President. Amendment of the Socialist Group to this initiative presented by UPyD: "The Basque Parliament requires the representatives of the Basque Government on the Board of Directors of Metro Bilbao to promote the immediate cessation and dismissal of their position from the current managing director, Eneko Arruebarrena". What has changed in the last few hours so that you have decided to withdraw this that you proposed? What secret pact have you reached with the Basque Nationalist Party to protect the Basque Government – already in the past – again? Can you explain the truth of what we're talking about? Can you explain what is behind this agreement between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Group? It has already happened, by the way, in the past. What's behind this? You proposed exactly what is contained in one of the transactional points. The Socialist Group's initiative recorded over the last few weeks, yes, withdrawn a few hours ago: "The Basque Parliament calls for the attitude of the Councilwoman of the Environment and Territorial Policy of the Basque Government to be reprimanded", which is perfectly reflected in that compromise. And you have also withdrawn that initiative. They have decided to save the Basque Nationalist Party again in exchange for some prebenda that we obviously do not know and that, if we knew it, we would denounce it. Therefore, Mr Pastor, do not have the face to try to be demanding with the Basque Government. You've made a deal with them, they've saved him again. He says they've signed a transaction that the Nationalist Party has accepted. No, you have accepted that transactional in exchange for not knowing exactly what. Again. Because a few months ago you decided at the last minute to vote against Mr Erkoreka's reprobation. At the last minute, at the last minute, in exchange for not knowing what, they decided not to reproach Mr Erkoreka. They decided not to proceed with that initiative, they decided to save it in one way or another. And today they do the same thing again. You were going to ask the councilwoman's reprobation and you've gone back. They were going to ask for Arruebarrena's dismissal and have decided to back off in exchange for some secret pact we don't know about. And our transactional is clear and perfectly justified. We believe that this person, who is the manager of Metro Bilbao, does not meet the appropriate conditions to remain in that position, because both the Leioa City Council's commission of inquiry and the facts we know perfectly demonstrate his political responsibilities. We are talking about political responsibilities, we are talking about perfectly proven irregularities, we are talking about mismanagement, we are talking about waste of public money. This has been perfectly demonstrated. There's no need for justice to say it. We're talking about political responsibilities. And it seems that you, Mr. Zorrilla, do not distinguish one thing from the other. This is a parliament, not a court, and we are talking about political responsibilities. And we say that, in fact, this person does not meet the conditions. Nor does she qualify to remain a counsellor herself, who, instead of giving the appropriate explanations in the plenary or in the committee, insulted parliamentarians with her non-response. In fact, you, too, with your speech today, have insulted those present. And, by the way, it has made the Socialist Group ridiculous. Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Group, do you agree with Mr Zorrilla's statement? Do you share your speech? Do you share everything you've said? Because to this very day you were defending just the opposite and I certainly find it amazing that you have signed a transactional endorsement of the speech of the spokesman of the Nationalist Group, who does not know how to distinguish the criminal responsibilities from the political responsibilities. We're talking about the ethics committee again. What is the matter, that this Parliament is being kidnapped by the ethics committee? What is the matter, that the parliamentary groups have no opinion on what has happened in Pinosolo? What's the matter, that we can't argue? That the parliamentary groups cannot have an autonomous position on this issue? Do we have to ask permission from the ethics committee? Regardless of what the ethics committee says, this Parliament may perfectly consider that this person is unable to remain a manager of Metro Bilbao; regardless of what the ethics committee says. And regardless of what the ethics committee and everything else says, this Parliament has its own autonomy to regard as absolutely regrettable the various interventions that have been made by the Councillor here in recent months, who has permanently refused to respond to what was asked from the various groups. We have political autonomy. Again the excuse of the ethical commission. Apart from what the ethics committee says, there are perfectly demonstrated reasons, therefore, for affirming and voting on this transactional. I'm not talking about ears, Mr. Zorrilla. I know the facts. I know the committee of inquiry's report. I know what we all know and you perfectly know.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u85	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u86	It is curious that you tell me that I am talking about hearing when you preferred certain people who knew a great deal not to appear in this Parliament so that we could all know the facts to the end, and above all the citizens. It is regrettable that you intend to disregard this Member's speech and, nevertheless, justify the Councilwoman's speech and behaviour. Certainly regrettable the attitude of the Basque Nationalist Party. Wait, right, wait...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u87	Thank you, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u88	... But in this case it has had the participation of the Socialist Group. They will have to explain why, but it is certainly regrettable.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u89	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u90	Thank you again, Madam President. Mr Pastor and Socialists, I am not going to ask you about your change of mind. You are very free to do so and to give the appropriate explanations of why you have changed your mind radically. Because the compromise amendment they have signed, apart from continuing to maintain strict application of standards of exemplaryness and so on, which, as I often say, is one of those "and peace in the world" amendments, says: "calls on the Government to move the current situation to the Public Ethics Commission". To move, not even that what that commission answers will be seen. But it is that, without doing a python exercise, I tell you from now on what you are going to answer, on several issues. One, there are five members in that committee, three of whom are from the Government. Given the position taken by the Government, the Councilwoman, I will tell you what she is going to say. And second, there are precedents. Mr. Arruebarrena's performance when did it occur? Before I was a managing director, right? Just like Mr. Toña. What's going to happen? He is not required to be held responsible. I'll tell you from now on. I already tell you from now on, without exercising pythonism, that that's going to be the answer. But you are very free to change your mind and you do not have to explain to us. If necessary, they will have to give it to the citizens. And, Mr. Zorrilla, what a bad style you have shown here today! For a number of reasons. First, getting home... I also bring home the intervention done, but do not change it according to what the person who intervenes says, that is already in bad style. Because I have never talked about criminal responsibility, at any time, or whether there is a criminal process. I have said that, apart from those responsibilities, I here call for your cessation for the responsibilities in your bad economic management, which are proven, that the economic losses are there. Second example of bad style, Mr. Zorrilla. You have just given the theory of what the Basque Nationalist Party now sees as commissions of inquiry. I suppose from now on in no institution will they push a committee of inquiry, because all the conclusions are biased, political, and therefore it does not proceed at all. So I imagine that from now on in those institutions where you are in the opposition you are not going to push or support a committee of inquiry. And the third bad style. You're not a white horse, are you?, no matter how much you try to sell that idea to us and to all the Basque citizens. They are neither white horse in corruption, nor white horse in good management. I could do an exercise here... 'Cause you guys have oral charges, too, huh? But I'm not gonna do it. And you want to sell us as a mantra that the PNV manages fabulously. Well, listen, no. No, no, And the economic losses are there. And I too have read the conclusions and listened to officials who have been part of all that process. I've heard them, I'm not talking about ears. I have met with them and I have read the conclusions, biased, because they are from a committee of inquiry; biased, but I have read them, and it is clear that there have been irregularities. And those irregularities and economic loss, beyond the application of the code of ethics, are neither a good endorsement nor a good element in the curriculum to be director of a public entity, and that is why we call for Mr Arruebarrena's cessation. We are not doing any inquisitorial exercise, nor chasing anyone, but, of course, I have all the legitimacy not to cover up the irregularities and to denounce them. All the legitimacy, the same as you, the same. And, I tell you, the misuse of public funds has been notorious. The trips are registered. The publication in the winning project magazine a year earlier is there; read the magazine, which looks like the two drawings and looks like two photocopies. And that's the way it is. And all that, regardless of whether he has another kind of responsibility, makes him undeserving. And the lady counselor. I will use a phrase that is not mine, which is: "to show disregard for the control activity of parliamentary groups and to derive their words into other aspects that had nothing to do with what was requested in parliamentary groups." This is your initiative, Socialist gentlemen. For those reasons, we do not resign, because for that there are different scales, but reproof does. We therefore fully support the requests contained in our compromise amendment. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u91	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u92	Thank you, President. Starting with Mr. Zorrilla, I think you were wrong here. He made the speech that did not correspond to the political moment we are living in. And you persist in the mistake of saying that everything has been done well, that there is nothing to judge, that there is nothing to establish. And part of an apriorism that is not true: we have not established any criminal trial, nor fiscal, nor of any kind, because that leads its own way. We've talked about other things. We have talked about your responsibility as a supporter of this Government and of the Government itself to raise the threshold of the requirement of transparency that is supposed to be what was intended to adopt the code of ethics and conduct, and we still do not understand why it has not been done so far. And, gentlemen of UPyD and gentlemen of the People's Party, I already understand that you have wanted to turn this into a kind of pimpampum against the Socialist Party. But if they are serious and consistent, they will acknowledge that from the minute 1 that we started talking about this issue in Parliament we have been saying exactly the same thing. We want the Government to implement its code of conduct and to determine the actions to be taken. And if they had, probably months earlier that topic would be solved, because the PNV has done what it has done is refuse to do so far. No matter how much you weigh, we've managed to get them to accept that that's what we had to do from the very beginning. I know you had other expectations. What do you want me to say, I do not have to justify myself to you if I make a political agreement or not; nor to Mrs Llanos, as she has acknowledged. And I am perfectly proud of how we have made this transit, perfectly proud. And one thing I want to say to Mr. Igor López de Munain. It has given me a little shame to hear you, because you come here from a Pharisee and a hypocrite. Or do you want me to remind you that from the very beginning you had already established that you were not going to approve Mr Erkoreka's reprobation? Or do you want me to remind you of the embarrassing attitude you have with Mrs. Iturbe, director of EITB, pieting with these gentlemen from behind? Or do you want me to remind you how you tried to get the PNV to chair an EITB commission that they didn't want to hold? And they have done so with their help, with their covenants, with their agreements behind them. Do not come, please, giving lessons in cleanliness and honesty, because you have a lot to shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u93	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u94	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Starting at the end, Mr. Pastor, I don't think I was wrong in the speech. We believe that we have had the same speech since this issue was raised in this House. And we know clearly how to differentiate political responsibilities from criminal responsibilities, and you should know that that is so. With regard to UPyD, simply point out several things. I have already said now that I do know and know how to differentiate between political and criminal responsibilities. I think we've proven it in different cases. And it's also my turn to live in person the experience of that campaign of harassment and destruction, and that's why I know it very well. We would also like to point out UPyD and EH Bildu. They both said that the committee table had curtailed the right of a few people to appear. I think they're wrong. The Bureau took a decision, but the committee, composed of all the groups in this House, agreed by a majority that they would not appear. It wasn't the table. Regarding the People's Party, Mrs. Llanos said that my style has been bad. Well, that's subjective. I'm not going to go in and evaluate his style. He says you haven't talked about criminal responsibility. We do, because from criminal responsibility it becomes politics. And I say again that we understand that the People's Party on this issue, on this matter, is better silent. With regard to the commission of inquiry, they say that the Nationalist Party will not be able to call for the creation of any commission of inquiry. Of course I do. But commission of inquiry with minimum procedural guarantees, minimum procedural guarantees. And I don't know if we're going to be white horses or grey horses, but what's clear is that the People's Party in this matter is black horses. Regarding EH Bildu, Mr López de Munain is making merits to overcome Mr Maneiro in the appeal that Mr Prieto, the political kamikaze, dedicated to him in a plenary session. You want to become the administrators of universal justice, returning, as we said before, to an inquisitorial system. In fact, in the commission they said "beyond what the courts say", and also with a double measuring rod, which is quite dangerous. You say, and here we have heard, that unjust sentences are handed down. You, in this case, no sentences. No sentences. They also deliberately forget the presumption of innocence and then claim it in other matters. Unlike you, we defend the presumption of innocence for all people, not just those who are interested in some. Here they are judging a person without having been convicted or even accused, I repeat. He speaks joyfully of cases of corruption. It no longer says alleged cases: you throw yourself at the chance of cases of political corruption. And we must tell you, and we have said it before, that in the face of political corruption, which is very serious and that, as we have of course said, we must fight, and fight belligerently, there is another worse corruption, human or moral corruption, and from that I believe that you have a historical backpack from which it will be very difficult for you to unravel. You can't tell us about respect and ethics, which are totally subjective concepts, which each sets you where you think you have to be based on your education and values. I don't think you can give us any lesson in respect and ethics. And there's a phrase that I really like to use, which is that time and citizenship put each person in their place. There are two things that do not deceive a democratic society, which are judicial resolutions, although we may not share them, and the word of the citizenry through the various electoral processes. And citizenship is smart, and Basque citizens have spoken recently, not even 15 days ago. And they have positively appreciated the honest and effective management of the Basque Nationalist Party at the head of Basque institutions. And in particular, since it has been mentioned, also the Town Hall of Leioa, where the Basque Nationalist Party has won in all neighborhoods, in all schools and at all polling stations despite its bad arts and its dirty play. And, on the contrary, they have punished those who have used the dirty game. In this regard, I will tell you that while the Basque Nationalist Party has maintained its nine councillors, the three parties, Bildu, PSE and PP, have lost one councillor, losing Bildu 20% of their votes, the PSOE more than 22% and the PP more than 35%. We therefore ask you to reflect and change your strategy. Citizenship values work as positive and not confrontation and bad arts. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u95	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. To finish up, EH Collect Group's representative. Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u96	Mr. Zorrilla, in order not to want to give lessons or to accuse the rest of us of being the Inquisition, you have given us lessons of morality, morality and of what is given very well to the PNV, which is to believe the champion in everything. The results do not take away any reason for you to have committed corruption. They've committed it, and it's true. And you can prove it and it's demonstrable. The first, and it is a monument that we have to see all that we pass through the center of Gasteiz, is its own headquarters, which is within the case of De Miguel, the headquarters of Gasteiz. You cannot deny your own corruption, even with electoral data. You ask the rest of us for an extra ethical commitment; as good managers, you have already covered it because that's supposed to be what you are, good managers; that's what it's supposed to support from you citizens. What happens is that day after day, week after week, month after month and year after year, we are making sure that reality comes to light and that everything you have sold for decades is falling to you. And they are falling because it is evident that the Hiriko case, the Epsilon case, the De Miguel case, Karrantzako Minda case, the Pinosolo case and many others are what you have done with politics in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country: clientelisms and friendships. And that is what you have favored, and that is what favors your municipalities and those people who are, under suspicion of irregular actions, exercising their positions of political responsibility. With which, lessons and inquisitions... You can't go out here like Torquemada to remember absolutely nothing. First look at your house and then talk to the rest. Mr. Pastor, I think you overvalue me. In those covenants that you found me, the truth, I swear and promise you I have not been in any. You said "you've been." I swear I haven't been to any of them. I promise. That there have been some who may even have been a mistake, or that may seem a mistake to me, and that they have defended themselves, may be. But the problem here is another one. The problem is that here, when we play big, which is where the games of mus are won, the Socialist Party of Euskadi falls. You keep what you talk about from minute 1 to minute 90. The problem is that in the 90-minute pitan penalti and you throw it out, because it scares you to lose that party and win it to the Basque Nationalist Party. Why? That is the question you should answer. What's behind that? What have you achieved by changing your vote today? What are you guys gonna get on Saturday with it? Is there anything you can do by changing your vote today, removing the Councilwoman's reprobation? That is what citizens want to know, in exchange for what they have withdrawn their proposal. And it is that, honestly, to chanchulleros, Pharisees – I believe he has called me too – trappicheros, I believe that the Socialist Party of Euskadi, at least to this group, gives it a thousand laps. I don't know about the rest of them, but this group has a thousand laps. And that's what they've been showing for decades. You're not an example of anything either.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u97	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. End of discussion, we'll vote for Misto-UPyD and the middle-direction signed by the Basque Populars. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 31; contraries, 42; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u98	The middle-line correction has not been accepted. Next, we'll vote for the middle-term correction of the Basque Socialists and the Eucalists. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 42; the opponents are 31; white, 0; abstations 0, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u99	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "Steal as a team of the legislatures, all the confessions and observations of the victims and observations of the human rights of violence upon the waters of the human rights of the police. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Arzuga, representative of the EH Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. By order of the Spanish Government, the attorney of the State introduced the appeal to the confession and observation of the victims of the human rights of the police, to the 426/2013 Decree, to the 107/2012 Decree. The consequence of this appeal, on April 24th, was that the Chief Court of Eukadicus rejected this decree by two arguments. First, that they needed the federative proof of the injuries which interested them had suffered, that a medical commission should give them, and that they should establish the more acute calms to determine compensations. By one chance, the court took up this decision, which in the course of time was associated with the meeting of the Committee against the torture of the United Nations. President of this committee Claudio Grossman remarked that the Spanish State must acknowledge the pain he had done and the victim of torture must be responsible for justice. There's a dispute between the local tribunals and the international orders. This court court ruling shuts some doors, and we have to report it, but it also gives us a new opportunity. He allows us to do better, more fully, more solid, and with a wider consent. The secretary for peace and fellowship said he would try to explore that new path. In the first place, he said that he would apply a resource to this sentence, and in the second place he announced that he would present us in the press a project of laws which would represent this decree. We didn't get too much information about this plan. We'd like Mr Jonan Fernández to have a meeting at the Human Rights Committee, but it won't happen at the moment, and it won't happen at this meeting. Yesterday, on the other hand, at the Human Rights Committee, when we had asked truth for foundation, we took three victims of the violence of the police: Pilar Urruzuno, José Vicente Oginaga and Pello Mindegi. They gave us what they lived in a worthy and touching story. The first two of them explained to us the torture that had been suffered in the seventy decades, that they had no credulative evidence of it, which is designed for this torture. The third, Pello Mitya, testified to us. The seminar is blind, he lost an eye in an accident, and the second was torn from it by a smokepot that the police had thrown him at close quarters. He's got a very obvious proof of this fact, there on the committee, as we all could see. The incident happened in 1983. None of these three can receive confessions and attention from those parameters which are now established in decrees. They told us: "We've spent ten o'clock in solitude forgotten, refused." Confession and attention are the object of truth and justice. Wise inspirations, realists, but, according to the conditions and legal doctrines of the present day, the inspirations which they cannot acquire according to those decrees. Other names, perhaps more well known, may be brought to this discussion. Lasa and Wide, for instance, even if it repeats that they were victims of the GAL, they have not the burning of the victims of terrorism. And according to these decrees, since their abduction and murder had been in 1983, they could not have been protected. It would have been the same, to give an example, to the widening Michael, to the dying of torture in 1985, because he, on this condition of time, suffers also the condition of territory, namely, that of the Nafarian Michael. A thousand and thousands of cases which must be acknowledged and observed, but which now have no legal protection. Decree 107/2012, on the declaration and reparation of victims of unjust suffering as a result of the violation of their human rights, produced between 1960 and 1978 in the context of the violence of political motivation experienced in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, aimed to recognize the injustice of the suffering of those victims, as well as to end the institutional oblivion in which they have remained, for which it seeks to alleviate this suffering through the reparation measures it contemplates. To recognize injustice, to end oblivion, to alleviate this suffering. We must say that none of this can be verified today. As yesterday we were able to observe in the emotional appearance of some of these victims in the Commission on Human Rights, they are still forced to claim, they are still forced to fight for the recognition of their rights. They still have to mobilize, participate in all kinds of meetings, in appearances, in order not to be postponed from truth, justice, memory. They still see that their rights are at the expense of decisions of the justice system, of the resources of the Madrid Government, of requirements that always, always, hinder their recognition. Obstacles, difficulties, requirements that generate a second victimization. Seeing how they lock one door after another. Even some of them have had to go to Argentina in search of justice, a justice that we still don't report to you here. Yesterday, at the appearance, they were transferred this word recognition by all the parliamentary groups that we were represented there, a recognition that is not in fact yet theirs. That's the task we're up to. We must invent, create, and build the way to realize this confession and observation. Must contain three axes: We must obey the orders of international legislation. Second, guaranteeing victims' equality. We must apply to the principle of equality of right in the equality of revolutions. We must give them equality in confession. We must give them equality in proportion to attention. Tempporal equality, not from neglect, according to time or particular contexts. Spatial equality; no matter where the violation of human rights, the violation of water, or the conflict of Euscal, or the chance of Eros for political cause; because every victim of the rapine of human rights must, in any case, be given equality. And even equality is safe. This is the third axis: To give legal efficiency, to give legal security to these victims' inspirations. There are laws to protect other victims: the Law of Historical Memory, or the Act of Terrorism. There's a site that doesn't belong to anyone, which we have to cover right now. A decree made by the executive has no strength. Besides giving the authority of rule, the legislature gives importance and legitimacy to such a rule, especially a rule which ought to operate in the field of human rights. This law must provide protection, but it must also give light to all the victims of the police. It is essential to explain clearly what the police had been doing, why; what was the decision of this watering policeman to make. He must explain clearly why these victims could not receive attention and confession from the judicial path. For justice did not inquire or inquire, or pursuers, or judge, or punish. It must clearly be explained that the torture existed (in facts there is no mention of the word torture). Torture had existed, and had not been an occasional exploit, but a real and general event had been in this country. And this law must plainly explain how it will be proved and done. EHG has always declared that such a law was necessary. To support the victims of the violence of the state, the legislature must make a law, and therefore demands the Government to bring a project to examine it. This law ought to be cultivated and executed, and that is why we wished to put the oxen back before the cart. Through this other legal proposal, we wanted the parliaments to ask you to bring in a project like this, which we all have to agree, discuss, and approve. We had to discuss the intentions of the teams, and we got that somehow. We agree with the media that's signed. We consider the brain, but we think that it contains the substance in some way in this medium which has been signed between PNV and PSE. To vote on points, we will do as follows: At the first point, by abscessation. And in the other two, because the flesh appears for us, we will vote on our side. On these two points, the Spanish Government demands that the decision will be taken here, and that the Eucommodari should present a bill in Parliament to approve it. Let our previous commitment be in order to encourage this process, and in order to find harmony. In fact, we have always asked for a legal instrument with legal authority, which can protect the victims of the human rights of the state. That is to say, we think of the greatest benefits we can do to peace and political normalization. In this sense, even in the National Asanbal in Paris, they are trying to take a step like this, because they're doing the Humanitary Conference towards the Basque Country of Peace. I would like to bring here a few words of the former political advisers and professors of the United Nations in Pierre Hazan: "The first step to strengthen the peace is to confess the suffering of the victims." To do this we place our will, our determination on the table. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u101	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u102	Thank you, President. The Socialists have a formal commitment in this House. We are not going to promote debates that deepen the differences that still exist in relation to the memory of what has happened in this country, and we are going to work together to lay the foundations for future coexistence. Therefore, our only initiatives in this area have been to realize the Memorial of Victims of Terrorism – already working on it – and the Law of the Institute of Memory, which will shortly take its first steps. We also promoted at the beginning of this legislature to regain the peace paper in order to advance on the pillars already built in the last legislature. And as soon as we see risks of regression, we choose to wait for the laggards to take on things as basic as they should never have been killed. We avoid confrontation as much as possible in this area, because we are convinced that stirring up what separates us every day does not in any way facilitate this path, nor does it help the people who expect us to make progress in memory, justice and reparation. I am not very sure that that was the spirit of the initiative that Bildu brought us today, highlighting the obvious about the rights of victims of police abuse and asking what has already been announced, for the Basque Government to submit a bill on victims of other violence. And I want to reiterate my party's position on this matter. Other victims not covered by the Victims of Terrorism Act and who have been found to be victims to have the recognition and reparation they deserve. That was the criterion and the path that the socialist government of Patxi López took in 2012. With the highest consensus in Euskadi and seeking consensus with the central government – I repeat, also seeking consensus with the central government – he drew up a decree recognizing victims of police abuse between 1960 and 1978. However, today we are talking about this issue, and it is probably because the present Government did not act with the same disposition to the dialogue while trying to broaden its content and found itself with an appeal from the central Government, followed more recently by an adverse judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. Therefore, what can be said in June 2015 is what we already said and did in June 2012. That if there is a remedy, even partial, for victims of police abuse, it is because it was made possible by the previous Government. And if that progress was possible, it is because it was made with conviction, with legal certainty, with discretion and with the search for agreements. More work remained to be done, it is evident, but the method was changed, just as principles have been moved in the rest of the coexistence policies. The search for consensus, discretion and legal rigour have been replaced by photos, blows of effect or unilateral actions without sufficient coverage or legal competence to do so. And in April, when the judicial remedy and the consequent disenchantment of a part of these victims arrived, something that we should avoid because it causes unnecessary frustration, the Secretary of Peace and Co-existence pulled out of the joke the elaboration of a specific law to come out in front of public opinion. And I use this expression for something specific: two months before Mr Fernández announced the drafting of this law, in the transmission of the Government's latest updated legislative calendar, no such initiative was cited. And we are also concerned that, if the method is not changed, with a law the Government can obtain the same result that it has had with its amended decree. A law cannot, in fact, be appealed to the High Court of Justice by way of administrative litigation – that was Mr Fernández's argument – but nothing will prevent the central Government from appealing to the Constitutional Court, depending on its immediate application. Is this the legal certainty that is offered to the affected persons with the change of rank of the norm? There is no such legal certainty. The only one comes from agreement, consensus, serious work with political actors and also with the Government of Spain. Socialists do not oppose or defend a law. We are not going to tell the Government what the legal instrument with which it must fill the gaps in memory, reparation and justice is, because the essential thing is not the instrument, but the method and spirit with which the norm is elaborated. Be a decree, be a law, you must follow the same path that has allowed you to move forward successfully in this field so far. Two examples. The 2008 Act on the Recognition of Victims of Terrorism took only three months to pass in the Basque Parliament since the Government sent it, and this was possible because it had previously been worked with intensity, discretion and will for consensus. It was that silent effort to come up with agreements that allowed it to move forward at the time of the greatest political tension in Euskadi. And that also happened with the 2012 agreement on minimum ethical living standards. How many previous shams, how many parliamentary debates without reaching a common point until it was wrapped up in a paper and the understanding was thoroughly sought! That is what we advocated in our original amendment and what also reflects the one we have had with the Basque Nationalist Party: a ratification of the commitments made, an appeal to the responsibility of the Basque and Spanish governments and an express invitation to the Urkullu Government to renew the way in which memory policies are worked out, because, if this is done, the agreement will be much easier in this area. It is also true that the Rajoy government has not been very attentive to the demand for reparation for victims of police abuse, but, as I said, the socialists achieved in 2012 that the decree worked in Euskadi did not have problems of legal route. We would not like a law on the recognition of victims of police abuse to be met with the same stone in which it has stuck the decree reformed in 2013 for not having previously done the work of consensus and political concertation inside and outside of Euskadi. Therefore, in our amendment with the PNV, the Government is urged to seek from the outset the maximum political, social and, of course, institutional consensus in the bill it has announced to replace the decree. In this sensitive area of recognition and reparation for the irreparable damage caused by violence and terrorism, we each have our successes and deficits. Socialists have a history of active participation in all initiatives aimed at ensuring the justice of those who have seen their rights violated. We participated from the consensus in the Act on the Recognition of Victims of Terrorism, those of all terrorist gangs (also the LAG, also the Spanish Basque Battalion). A law from which unfortunately the Left resigned abertzale, present in the Basque Parliament, but absent at the time of the vote. And we were the ones who drafted from the Basque Government the decree that recognizes the victims of police abuse for the first time in decades of government, the first that had ever been done and that still remains to be completed. In the same way that we also met from the Government with the families of Txiki and Otaegi, the last ones shot by Francoism, and we went to the family recognition that is made to them every year. My party has been in all the work that has been done on memory and coexistence, because we assume with conviction that no one should have killed, kidnapped, tortured or threatened in the name of any cause. That neither a terrorist nor a torturer should have been killed for the same reason. That we consider vomiting any justification, even utilitarian, for the existence of LAGs, that no one who died or was injured by police excesses can be spared for lack of justice, recognition and reparation. We want the path of understanding, consensus and discretion to be restored so that this legislature is not empty in terms of memory and coexistence. Because just when less pressure has been put on the Government in this area, it is at least that progress has been made. It seems obvious to me that something is failing and that something needs to be reconsidered. We believe, in any case, that it is possible to correct that path and it is in the hands of the Government to channel it. Last Friday the lehendakari did something that was being demanded of him by the victims of terrorism and did it well. Now you must endorse those words with deeds. And the same can be expected from the task of realistically meeting the outstanding demands of victims of police abuse, with work, with a lot of discreet work, and above all in a spirit of consensus.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u103	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u104	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. Truth, justice, and recompense are the rights of all the victims of the waters of human rights. This is how international law is established. On the 16th of December 2005, the United Nations confirmed the fundamental principles and axes of the victims of human rights. So they're universal rights. Each of the victims belongs to every one and everywhere. But if this be so, it is not an easy trial to guarantee these rights in all cases. The history of the rights of victims is not long, and frequently hard conjunctions determine the application of these rights. Something like that has happened to us in our own country. Rape and conflict have entirely conditioned the confession and satisfaction of all victims, and even now, unfortunately, we can verify that this is the case. But above all difficulties, we clearly see the end; To guarantee the rights of the victims, to treat the same waters as the rights of human rights, the same rotations, the same rights. This principle of the same trade ought to direct all our political undertakings, difficulties. Yesterday, as has been said, at the Human Rights Committee, we had a chance to know the history of Pello Mindegi, Pilar Urruzuno, and Joseph Viente Ogina. It's as touching as raw thesis, really. And their testimony supposes an interpenetration made by all of us, an interpenetration made by the eupulous society and its political representatives. We have known many other cases of prejudice, innocent victims who have lived in silence for years and years in renunciation, for all victims are innocent in their victims. During the preceding settlements, I say in the elections, the essays which were made different were made in order to begin the course of confession and compensation. In 2011, last of all, we were able to make the first strides with the report of the victims of human waters, and then the Euskozoa accepted it with 7/2012 Decree. As we said at his moment, what we then set up did not answer the problem as a whole. It is true that the answer was given in different phases, that many victims could feel themselves banished. We declared it was only a step first. With these reports and decrees we did not close a door, but opened a new road. We knew it would be a difficult and hard journey, but we engaged to get to our destination, and today we confirm that commitment. Truth, justice and reparation and equal treatment for all victims are universal principles and rights that assist all victims of human rights violations. And that has been and is today also the commitment of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government to which it lends its support. Beyond the difficulties that this process of recognition and reparation presents, our will is firm and our commitment as well. From the beginning we warned of these difficulties, the multiple conditions surrounding this black history of police and para-police abuses. We then agreed, in the name of consensus, that the process should proceed slower than necessary, with more caution than the gravity of the facts required. We accept on behalf of the consensus the plotting of victims at different stages in time or depending on whether the abuses were committed inside or outside a detention centre. We agree, in the name of consensus, on the composition and form of operation of the evaluating commission that was born of that decree, the evaluating commission that has acted at all times, both in the previous legislature and in this one, with absolute rigour and maximum prudence. So and so, it seemed that the road closed again and again. Well, let's not give up on the effort. We will not stop exploring all the necessary avenues to repair as far as possible a historical injustice and an outstanding debt to all those victims who today, in 2015, are still waiting. And we're not going to get into the rag of the rifrrafe chusco of who did it best, of who worked harder to find consensus. And that is why we have signed a compromise with the Socialist Group in which we reiterate the principle that there is no political cause or reason of state that can be placed above human rights and that all victims are entitled to the same rights. We also invite the Spanish Government to join the policies of reparation for these victims, from the consensus, in favour of the recognition of all of them. Finally, we support the announcement by the Basque Government to introduce a bill on recognition and reparation, which, inspired by all the principles I have pointed out throughout my speech, will bring maximum legal certainty to a process that has been delayed too long, and which will do so since the search for the broadest social, political and institutional consensus. The same consensus effort that has been maintained by the PNV and that allowed the reporting of victims of human rights violations in a context of political motivation and the decree derived from it. The same consensus effort that we have maintained by the signatory groups of the amendment, the Basque Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, and the rest of the groups that will either vote in favour or hope that they will not oppose it. I hope that all this will be a sign of a new time when, by blocking the partisan differences, we will be able to give a definitive answer to the just demands of all the victims. I wish we were up to the challenge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u105	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing to the non-correction teams round Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u106	Thank you, President. In June 2012, the Basque Government adopted a decree on the recognition and reparation of victims of human rights violations, which occurred between 1960 and 1978 in the context of politically motivated violence. That decree was not denounced by any government. In October 2013, the Basque Government, already of the Basque Nationalist Party, reformulated the decree. The Government of Spain denounces this reform. The Law of the State makes an appeal against the reform of the decree. The appeal has been taken into consideration by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. As far as we know, the Lehendakaritza will finally appeal to the Supreme Court to approve its decree. The Basque Government asserts that on 13 May it brought an appeal against the decision of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country as a preliminary step to the Supreme Court. It was on 29 April that the Basque Dispute-Administrative Chamber notified the Basque Government of the partial assessment of the appeal brought by the State Advocate against the reform of the decree. The State Advocate appealed this reform by ensuring that it allowed victims to be recognized without the necessary evidence, which would demonstrate the errors of the decree promoted by the Basque Government. The High Court of Justice of the Basque Country has given him some reason, nullifying the news introduced by the Secretary of Peace and Co-existence, Jonan Fernández, for not requiring reliable evidence, that is, official medical reports. The High Court of Justice of the Basque Country considers that the objective and reliable assessment of the injuries of potential beneficiaries and their origin is not guaranteed. The State has argued and the court has assumed that there is no requirement for credible evidence of the injuries suffered by the persons concerned by admitting any kind of medical report. The Basque Government argued that an assessment commission would examine all the applications, an argument which the court has rejected because it considers that the commission lacks adequate medical knowledge, since it is not a medical court or is made up of doctors; then it does not guarantee, according to the judgment, the requirement of feciency of the injuries alleged. The ruling further determines that the barremo proposed by the reform to recognize a person as a victim and to propose economic compensation is not generic and lacks the definition necessary to be truly considered a barremo, thereby violating the constitutional principle of legal certainty. All this and something else, in my view, shows that the Basque Government has done things wrong, that it has drawn up a decree and that it has made a serious mistake. They also show, I believe, that what the Basque Government was perhaps pursuing was not so much trying to deal with certain victims, but directly the confrontation with the Spanish Government. And I think it can also show that what the Basque Government intended was to carry out a propaganda act. The truth is that EH Bildu has quickly interceded, as it always does every time these issues are dealt with, to pollute the initiative and soil it with its letter and signature. I am not going to extend, but you know the reasons why I say this, and I believe that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi should say this clearly. They should remember who they are and what they represent who has signed this initiative and should be demanding in relation to EH Bildu. I think it would be interesting for you to remember again in this House, or to say so, that EH Bildu is not legitimized to talk about human rights, that is, that you mark a red line to clearly differentiate yourself from EH Bildu and to differentiate democratic political parties from those who are not. Having said that, I would also like to comment on the initial amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party. In this amendment, it is curious, the Basque Nationalist group calls on the Government of Spain not to prosecute and hinder the policy of reparation to the victims of the 1960-1978 period. Yes, but if the Basque Government's decrees are manifestly illegal, how will this issue not be brought to justice? It is his duty, and indeed the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country has given him the reason, at least in some matters that are very important. I therefore believe that it is clear that the Government of Spain must be careful to monitor any kind of decree that this Government or any other Government could pass. In fact, the Basque Government itself is also permanently bringing certain cases to the Constitutional Court for jurisdictional disputes when it considers that judicial decisions or the legal system are not being dealt with. Finally, the Basque Government has announced that it intends to turn this decree into law. They intend to turn this decree into law surely in autumn. I, in connection with this, want to tell you some things. And I say to you that the legislative timetable is considerably behind schedule and that there may be other priorities before the drafting of this law and, therefore, it would be interesting for the Basque Government to address the real problems of citizenship and each specific problem to give it the importance it deserves. I would also like to say to the Basque Nationalist group and the Basque Government that they do not repeat clumsiness like this, that they do not repeat the clumsiness of the decree you have drawn up, that they do not repeat the clumsiness of this decree. We are talking about a black period in our history (dictatorship, a few years of dictatorship) and we are talking about victims of police excesses that deserve our attention. I therefore ask the members of the Government, the Basque Government, the Lehendakari, the democratic political groups not to forget that we are talking about a very serious and sensitive issue, and that we must therefore do things right, with the maximum possible consensus. I ask you to be serious and rigorous, not to accept the approaches of the abertzale left, not to defend the theory of political conflict, not to humiliate the victims of terrorism, to seek consensus with democratic political parties, to guarantee the legal certainty of all decrees and laws that decide to promote, to respect the legal order and to respect judicial decisions. To this day, therefore, and in relation to this issue, at the moment that is all I have to say. If you present that project, we will analyze it in depth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u107	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Mr Arzuaga, manipulations, distortions, interested falsehoods are often the signs of identity of the initiatives presented by Bildu. And this wasn't going to be an exception. You are part of the initiative of the decree on the recognition and reparation of victims of human rights violations, produced between 1960 and 1978 in the context of politically motivated violence, for immediately, on the initiative itself and today also here, to speak of police violence in what could be understood in your opinion as a systematic and continuous violation of human rights by the police forces. They want to show that the police repeatedly and continuously exercise violence. It is true, and I want to make it clear from the outset, that, like other parts of Spain, Euskadi has not been alienated from acts of violence, although I do not know whether the term violence of political motivation is the most correct. In any case, they have been acts of violence, violent acts that result in violations of human rights. And after each violation there is a person, a family, a life, which, depending on its intensity, causes more or less pain and suffering; in any case, it causes damage. We – not just me here today –, our group and I in other chambers have recognized and bet that the violations of the rights that were committed with these people are recognized and repaired, although it is true that it is not always easy, because the proof of them is not always easy. But I also want to distinguish perfectly between the acts committed before the establishment of the democratic state and after. Because in democracy, in the rule of law enshrined in our constitution, any abuse, injury or torture committed by a public official is persecuted and punished, and there are convictions of the courts for it. And from here I want to make clear a point so that you gentlemen of Bildu do not make use of the constant exercise of manipulation to which we are accustomed. From this group, from the People's Group, we condemn any abuse that may have been committed by a public official; that he be persecuted and punished. On anyone who commits torture who falls all the weight of the law. And, as I said, there have been court rulings on this. Then the rule of law must function and function in the face of these violations, which are absolutely unacceptable. And we welcome the functioning of the rule of law. But it is true that before that rule of law was established a series of violent events took place, many of them with very tragic results. Excess and abuse were committed, violations of absolutely unacceptable rights that must be recognized institutionally and compensated. And it must be done from truth and rigour, as was said here, but also from legal certainty. It is true that an appeal was lodged against the 2013 decree. By the way, it was said that it was to hinder, but that appeal was based on, and, in fact, the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country has annulled part of that decree. But in the previous year, in 2012, a first decree had been published, which was not contested. Then, if the motivation for challenging the decree was political, the 2012 decree would also have been challenged and not made. It wasn't done. Decree 426/2013 was challenged and the court has come to give reason on several of the issues that motivated the appeal, due to the lack of legal certainty that existed after the new decree. It recognized, as Mr Maneiro has said here, that the General Law on State Subsidies, which is of a basic nature, should first be applied, and, under that basic law, there is a need for reliable evidence of injuries, i.e. medical reports or certificates. And the decree did not require it; therefore, it was contrary to legal certainty and did not have the precise guarantees or the necessary objective character. The committee, which has acted correctly and whose work has to be valued positively, is not a medical commission, it is not made up of doctors. Therefore, since it is not a medical court or composed of doctors, the assessments should have been carried out, if not with the INSS, by an independent doctor. And with regard to the barems, the same thing. The decree stated that the criteria established by international human rights law or any other criteria deemed appropriate would be applied. However, the Chamber considers that these concepts are not sufficiently defined and that the principle of legal certainty is therefore violated. But it is that the secretary of peace and coexistence himself recognized that the decree was good, but not enough to guarantee legal certainty. And he announced, as has been said here, that he was going to bring in a law; a law that we, when brought in, will analyze and that we will try, as has been said here, to come out with as much consensus as possible and based on concepts of truth, reparation and legal certainty. Therefore, gentlemen of Bildu, if one of the things you wanted was for a law to be brought in, you should have withdrawn the initiative, because it has already been announced that that law will be brought in. But you have not withdrawn it – come on, we had no doubt that you were not going to withdraw it – because you use this initiative and that decree as one more instrument in your strategy. I spoke of truth and rigor, but truth and rigor is something that you have not just known, because you continue in the same strategy and for that any instrument is valid, even use and instrumentalize these victims, instrumentalize them to subscribe to the theory of conflict. But it's more, you said it here: the victims of the Basque conflict. And that is what you are pursuing, to subdue that theory of conflict, to show that here there have been two sides: on the one hand ETA and on the other hand the State. That is what you intend with each and every initiative that you present here: to say that there were two sides and that both sides were inflicting suffering. We were not going to vote for his initiative initially, mainly because it is an attempt to implement. We have said this and I would like to reiterate it again: there have been a number of violations of rights that must be redressed, that must be recognized. That is, with guarantees, with certainty, from the truth and from the rigor. But from that very truth you must admit that there was no Basque conflict, that here what there was was a terrorist gang killing. Recognize that. Have the courage to recognize that and that ETA should never have existed, that they do not end up recognizing or going to do so, even today in the votes. When they do that, they will have the legitimacy to talk about certain issues. In the meantime, no legitimacy, Mr. Arzuaga. We will not allow them in the meantime to question the guarantees offered by our democracy. And we are not going to accept ethics lessons in human rights from anyone, and much less from you, who today have not condemned one of the human rights violations committed by the terrorist band ETA.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u109	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the answer shift, EH Collect. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u110	Thank you. I'll try to respond in order. Mr. Pastor, is there reparation for the victims of ETA? Yeah. Are there those you call "other victims"? No, no, A finding. We were able to see it clearly yesterday in the Commission on Human Rights. Those "other victims" – with that message, with that discriminatory concept that you use – appeared yesterday, and the tone that Mr Ares used with them, of course, is not what you bring us today. The victims who appeared yesterday said that they had been deluded by the decree you had issued. However, they have found that they have been left out. They have found that it does not give them such reparation, and they have also found it because they have really realistic, reasonable and without any kind of maximalism. It seems true that you take a step, as you did with that decree, but that's where it all ends, that's where you stay. The first, well; what happens is that we don't give anymore. And that has also made us see it in other areas and other places of discussion. When you see that evolution that can put at risk the synthesis that can be reached by the intervention of other opinions, of other political forces, then that is when you stay out. A bad concept of progress. It's hard for us to observe tortures in franchising, when we all recognize it. We have not recognized torture in 1960, 55 years later. When are we going to recognize tortures of the year 2005? In 2060? Will they have to do it then? Paco Etxeberria is making a report that states that 4,000 cases are recorded in a temporary fan that arrives until yesterday. I understand that this can be overwhelming, I understand that they are terms, that they are numbers, that they are data that can overshadow, that can change speeches about violence, that cause many pillars of the rule of law to tremble (police responsibility, executive responsibility over the decisions that were given to the police, the non-action of justice, etc.). But that is precisely the reality we have to face. Can we look the other way? No, no, We didn't do it yesterday, not at least the ones we were at that appearance present. I have to tell EAJ that I agree, that we need consensus, that we need agreements. Maybe it's a rhythm issue, right? I agree, and I have the will to play the right rhythm on it. But what I'm trying to remark is where we're going is where we're going, where we're gonna get to and see where these victims are worth all of their burn-outs. That's why I brought the discussion here today. I don't say there's no such will from EAJ. What I'm just trying to say is that we wanted to discuss whether this will exists in this legislation. We'll have to work on this in the next few months. We'll find out. That's what we wanted to see here today. UPyD and PP on the line. UPyD says it's a doll. Let us see if it can be corrected, because we believe that there are elements with which methods can be corrected, the mechanisms imposed there. But, above all, with the vision that no victim has the feeling that he is staying out and that he is not going to be recognized, that he is not going to be repaired in his rights of truth and justice. What is happening, Mr Maneiro, is that you look elsewhere at the suffering of these victims. And it also threatens with new remedies before the Constitution. That insensitivity and threat are the elements that you portray. In this line, the PP also talks about manipulations, falsehood, lack of rigour. It's not what his partner Barrio moved them yesterday in attendance to the people who left there. I don't know if that's what he's going to tell those who are computing, those who are studying, those who are accounting for these facts as Paco Etxeberria himself, as the Institute of Memory itself, that he's going to have to devote himself to investigating these facts. But you, Mrs. Llanos, distinguish one time from another. He says one was like that and the other is like that. Do you think that's worth a victim of police violence to justify staying out of any kind of recognition and reparation? There are courts that have investigated the facts attributable to ETA and there are measures for the recognition and reparation of ETA victims. I do not see that there is a distinction between one time and another, because I still see courts that do not investigate, that do not investigate the State, that do not investigate human rights violations perpetrated by the State Security Forces and Bodies. And these victims are denied any kind of legislation, any kind of coverage to give them redress. This is not what Mr. Barrio transferred these victims yesterday. He transferred them recognition. I thought they were coming in that line today. Anyway...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u111	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u112	... I remind you both at a meeting in which you committed yourselves to some victims who might be recognized in this decree to ask the Government of Spain to withdraw these appeals before the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u113	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u114	Gentlemen of the PP, and I finish, you have no word. This is really what's serious. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u115	Please be quiet. Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Barrio, please withdraw what I've said. I'm asking you to withdraw from here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u116	The secretary general tells me to remove it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u117	Okay, you're retiring. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u118	Mr. Arzuaga, I don't know if you understand me very well. I have never wanted to make any kind of contempt for the victims at any time of my intervention when I was talking about those other victims who remained outside the Victims of Terrorism Act, because that is so. And I spoke of them later as victims of police abuse and have repeatedly said that they deserve the same respect, the same right to memory, justice and reparation. But I have also insisted that this must be done from the very top of the consensus in order for it to have all the necessary legal certainty, because the worst favor we could do them was to raise expectations that are then frustrated. And I don't think it's fair that you accuse us of taking a step with the decree and staying there. It's just that he later touched other gentlemen, who in a hurry ruined him, and we've wasted a lot of time. And don't talk to me about haste, because there was another tone in this Parliament, but, if you want, I remind you that when Sortu finally decided that he had no choice but to play in democracy, and he did it very well, he had a go out of heirezian colt and then he had a stop of mannego donkey, with all due respect to the Andalusians and the mannegos. Therefore, let us not place accusations in the mouth of anyone who does not belong. In any case, I would like to stay from your intervention and from those of the other groups in this plenary, with which it seems that a spirit of consensus and agreement, at least on the basic elements, is being fostered more than on other occasions. I would very much like the image of this plenary to be that there should be no vote against the amendment we have agreed with the Basque Nationalist Party. It seems to me that this is a very tight, very weighted amendment which perfectly reflects what the majority feeling of Basque society has today and which we should all have. I believe that today would be a perfect closure of this parliamentary session and good news for the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u119	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Iturate from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u120	Yes, Mr. President. Excuse me, please, from the seat. Short. To say above all, that I shall not enter into so many, so many, so many, so many truths, so many lies, and so many deceits, in the name of the council. I am not going in to rebut some of the claims that have been made. I am not going to report the reports of the Office of Economic Control regarding the reparation of these victims that this Government was found when it entered, or many other things that would explain the course of this Government. Because I believe that the consequence that we can draw, the reflection that we can draw from today's session is that a new time is being produced or can be produced (as I ended my first intervention, making vows for a new time), in which, by parking the differences and even parking our own stories and synergies, we are moving towards what these victims of their representatives really expect, that we give a fulfilled answer to their rights of truth, justice and reparation. And I think we are going to give a small – although small, important – step in this parliamentary session today. And I would like to use my second intervention to thank the groups that are going to vote for this compromise amendment in full or in part, because I believe it is a photograph of that new time. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u121	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u122	Thank you, President. I am not in the mood to anger anyone and not to break the calm debate that has taken place, but I do have to answer Mr Arzuaga, because he has accused me of threatening and insensitivity. And that's exactly what you're saying, isn't it? Whether you say that I threaten or that I am insensitive is certainly curious. I don't threaten. The only thing I have said is that there has been an appeal by the Government of Spain as a result of the errors included in this decree. It is not I who appeal, it is the Government of Spain, and there is a judgment of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country that must be dealt with. That's all I said. I have recalled what has happened in recent months and, therefore, what I have done has been to ask the Basque Nationalist Party and the Government to do things right from now on. This is what I said. I haven't shown any kind of insensitivity either. Insensitivity usually shows you, Mr. Arzuaga. On the one hand, with regard to all that has to do with ETA terrorism and the victims produced by ETA, and even with regard to these kinds of issues and these kinds of debates. Because it gives the feeling, and I think it is more than a feeling, that you bring these kinds of topics to warm up the environment and to intertwine, and you never do it to try to make it exist or to produce as much consensus as possible. He tried to go ahead with the Basque Government when, in this particular case, the Basque Government had already announced the introduction of a law. That is, the insensitive in this case is you for these two things, in relation to the victims of ETA and even in relation to these kinds of matters. Instead of seeking maximum consensus, instead of waiting for what the Government is doing, it comes here, advances and tries to use certain victims for its own benefit. It has done so on many occasions throughout this legislature, we have all seen it. There has been no constructive spirit in their interventions and approaches. Here we each have different points of view, each one has the preferred themes; some we give more importance to others. But it does give the feeling that you, when you have brought these kinds of topics, have never done so in a constructive spirit, but have almost always tried to put your finger in someone's eye. It's always been like this. In short, only to answer him, because he did not even intend to intervene in this second round. I have only said that this is a sensitive matter, that we are talking about victims of police excesses that deserve our attention and that, therefore, the Basque Government has to be serious, it has to be rigorous, it has to do things right, it has to seek the maximum consensus preferably, of course, with democratic political parties. It must seek maximum consensus with the Government of Spain, it must ensure that maximum legal certainty exists and can be achieved, it must respect the legal order. This is all what I said. I believe that, in short, I have made a rather moderate speech. I haven't said things, I think, too strange. Having said that, I will vote in favour of point 1 of the initiative and I will not oppose either of the other two.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u123	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. And finally, Mrs. Llanos, representing the Basque Popula Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u124	Thank you, Madam President. It is true that both Mr Barrio and I, who were at that meeting, pledged to speak with the Government of Spain and did so. But it is true that there are reasons for legal certainty. And that the lack of legal certainty in this decree has been recognized by the Secretary of Peace and Coexistence himself. And also by this Basque Government, on many occasions, good regulations that guarantee the rights of Basque citizens are resorted to on competition issues, on legal issues. Then to those persons who are granted these rights, please tell them why these resources are being used. And, having said that, I'm going to tell you in the gallery. You have no shame, Mr. Arzuaga. You're not ashamed. You don't know what that concept is. He doesn't know, he doesn't know what shame is. And he doesn't know it for a lot of reasons. He's manipulated. Well, it doesn't surprise us, because they always do. You have completely and absolutely manipulated my intervention. And he has manipulated it knowingly, because he knows perfectly well that I have said the same thing as Mr Barrio, exactly the same thing, that these victims have to see their suffering recognized, the violation of human rights recognized and the damages compensated. Same, same as Mr. Barrio. Of course it has to be recognized. From criteria of legal certainty, without generating false expectations, but recognized. And of course we have to distinguish. You speak of a rule of law. Come on, it's just, for you, the rule of law is a thread. But it's normal that it's a filfa, considering that they still don't condemn ETA in 2015. Well, normal. In the rule of law that we have and that is enshrined in our constitution, when torture is committed, the real ones are denounced. And I am not referring to those of these victims: those of ETA, who in their manual carried perfectly that the first thing that had to be done was to file a complaint for torture. Are those the ones that aren't investigated? Those? You're going after him. And that the full weight of the law should fall on those who commit torture, because no one can commit a human rights violation, but who is a public official even less, because it has to ensure the law's compliance. And, said this, the one who has no sensitivity, no decency and, as I have told you, no shame, is you, who uses these victims to minimize the damage inflicted by ETA, to minimize and want to reach the infinite tie that all caused suffering. And no, Mr. Arzuaga, as much as I repeat it over and over again, there weren't two sides here. There was one, a terrorist gang, that killed, extortioned, kidnapped, and deprived this country of freedom and democracy for a very long time, and to this day all that bench continues without saying anything, nor condemning it, on every occasion. Sensitivity, decency and shame will have the day they condemn him. In the meantime, less lessons for others. You're less than anyone. I repeat what Mr Barrio said to him: these victims must be recognized, and their suffering repaired. But, in the same way that I clearly say that, and our whole group, you say here that ETA should never have existed. He is not going to say that, because he is even going to abstain on the first point. Why? Because he says that no political cause can be a cause of death and murder. Why? Because ETA does. Well, the day you here recognize that ETA didn't have to exist, that day gives us lessons for others. In the meantime, keep your shames.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u125	Thank you, Miss Llanos. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of the EHG as a group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 71; supporters 21; contrary to 50; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u126	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next up, Euzia Socialists and Eucabertians have signed the medium correction. Asked for stitches, I think there's no problem. We'll vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 71; supporters 50; opponents 0; white, 0; abstations, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u127	So the first point is accepted. We'll vote for 2 and 3 points... No? Okay. Uno por Uno? Then we vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; votes given, 71; supporters of the city, 61; oppositions 0; white, 0; abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u128	So the second point is accepted. And finally, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 71; supporters 70; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-11.u129	The third point is approved. Since the list of subjects has been exhausted, I look upon the whole meeting as an end. It was three and sixteen in the afternoon.
