ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First of all, say that the seventh and thirteenth questions have been left for another. First point in theme list: "The question is, that the members of the legislatures of the Society of Noberto Air Force Base, made to the Chief of Environmental and Regional Policy, to change climate change and to the COP-21 High Court of Paris." Mr. fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u1	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning. Mr. President, good morning, everyone. In these days international activity is apparent in the European Committee and in the Central Environment Management. This activity is connected with the climate change in order to prevent and diminish the consequences, to promote the actions directed to prevention and enterprise. So it is with the international forums, when the United Nations are directed by other refracial groups like Clit Group or RG4SD. These groups have the most remarkable place in the country and in the country. All this being directed towards the climateal change of Paris's higher advance or COP-21, where the Chioto protocol can be advanced beyond the veteran. This autumn, as I say, a conference will be held in Paris laying the groundwork for ensuring annual global control of greenhouse gases. And we all want the climate summit next December in Paris to be a success, because the need for ambitious global action to combat climate change seems increasingly evident. It is true that this task has been moved to a second place at the political level because of the crisis we are experiencing. We believe that cosmetic changes are not worth it, that we play the transformation of the world and many countries have already presented their national strategy for the Paris conference. For this reason it is asked the following question: What kind of work is he doing in this Red Beetle? I'm waiting for your answer, Mrs. Chief. And I'm grateful for the information first and I'm not going to use the second round, Mr. President. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. In reply, Mrs. Oregi, who's a teacher, is in the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u3	Good morning, everyone. The United Nations and the European Committee exercise a great deal of work to ensure that the countries, the surrenders, and the cities are actively engaged in the struggle against the change of climate. For this phenomenon undoubtedly affects the preservation of the environment, in the conditions of life, and in the social and economic condition of all the people we live in. He began to pledge himself actively to the climate change in Basque 2002, by the Euskal strategy of the Consistence of the Consistence of the Esecial Environment, where he had two ends on the change of climate: limiting the gas disposal of the heat effects and increasing the capacity for draining. That same year, the emission of the gass of the heat effects began to take place every year. We also began to work for the maintenance of the townships and the town-lands. This process ended with the Euscal Plan of the climatical change for the 2008-2012 period, in the line of international commitment. Then new strategy of the Environment Program and climatical change has come between 2050 and many other enterprises which are constantly developing. In this park, it is the object of the Eucommy to realize that if the States, countries, tributes, and cities do not co-ordinately co-ordinately, a change of climate can bring information about the matter and prevent its consequences. Our work cultivates many things: In the schools of learning, municipal activity, scientific promotion and technology, the expansion of productive sectors, the action of institutions, and presence and international cooperation. And fortunately it bears its fruit. An international organization's confession of our work encourages us to follow the same course. In fact, they already consider us a country or a referencegios. Thus, last year, the United Nations appointed one of the 25 best methods of education in the world as to the education of the Euscadian School on the 21st basis. Last week, the European board gave the Basque League a reward, the best of the best, by removing the invaders for the work we've done, and even the European people have rewarded us. ICLEI conference next year about cities and permanent relays. Our companies are more and more interested in getting the EMAS environmental certificates from Europe. The International Prefed Institutions, such as The Climate Group, have entrusted the presidential presidency of Europe to the President of the Ukullus. In a few months, COP-21 is going to be a conference in Paris. The capital of France will become the scene of the world, and the States, countries, andgios will have a great opportunity to make an commitment to these two ends: On the one hand, to prevent the temperature of the planet from rising more than two degrees at the end of this century, and on the other, by the constant means of producing a system which respects nature, to ensure that country and landscape, climate, system, and society will be preserved. He'll be proud to say that he's working in perfect syncon with the other countries and restaurants that are the local leaders of the nation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary of the Belsen-Bords of the EHG of the Arts, and the chief physician of the Police Society, about the performances of a high-speed railway train." Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u5	Thank you. Good morning. It's been nine years since they started a high-speed train. During these years, it has been shown that AHT is not compatible, and has no benefit for society. This project has failed to spend millions of dollars while the budgets designed to the social needs have been reduced, and it has caused enormous damage to society, economics, and environmental injuries. The construction works of the project were supposed to bring a major economic push, but that's not visible. There's trouble, we've seen trouble. Prediction and labor stripers are the daily bread of the workers who work at HT. Most of them were caught in the hands of subcontradictions, unrespected of their business contract, and of their miserable conditions of security, which have since caused seven dead. All this has been accused more than once by the representatives of the workingmen, without having received any reply, and the situation has not improved. For instance, ELA's union put up a complaint about a year and a half ago, about the conditions in which the UTE Urume was applied, and the inspection of the work has shown him that he has not seen such a thing in an answer recently given. We don't know all about it. We don't know if the M.P.P.A. is tracking and controlling. That's why we're asking you why this situation is being given, if there's any special orders about the working conditions of a high-speed train, the visions, the funk, for another purpose.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. I'm sure you're the one who's the one who's talking to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u7	The President of the legislature, the president, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, good morning. The work of the Euscadan Lavisa is professional, Mrs. Arrido, who has done exactly, and has been quite clear in the answers made to several questions, even in the interpelations, and in the occurrences made by the chief physician of the preceding Eplegus and Polytics in this chamber. On the 3rd of June last year, a question was registered in the parliamentary law to be written about the accidents and the performances of Osalan. Without waiting for the documentation we sent, which showed the good work done by the professionals of the Labour Inspectorate in this work, EH Bildu said in a press conference that the Labour Inspectorate looks elsewhere, you even assured that there are objective data to think that the Labour Inspectorate acts in this way, with that lewdness and passivity, because it follows very determined political criteria. Later, you asked the counselor to appear to explain the same thing, and there, in our view, sufficient explanations were given that the Labour Inspectorate neither looks elsewhere nor meets the political criteria of anyone. Because, in addition to being professional, and this is good for all Euskadi workers, their special status protects them from any interference. They lack respect for the professionals of the Basque Labour Inspectorate when they are said to look elsewhere.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u8	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u9	We do not study people, or doubt what each vision does at the present moment, but speak of criteria. Lehen aipatu had to fight. She filed a complaint against several subcontractors, as I said earlier, UTE Urumea, who are working on the Urnieta-Hernani stretch, for wages of misery, abusive days and lack of security standards, among other issues. The inspector says in the answer that he sees nothing. Euskal Trenbide Sarea does not even attend the previous meeting of the PRECO and CRL to try to reconcile in relation to the complaint. Nor does the Labour Department of the Basque Government say anything, it is missing in this matter. In the complaint mentioned, that more than 12 hours of work are common, and that in some companies the poor have worked for 17 hours. But nothing has been seen, it seems there's no problem at all. And then, if this happens, how can there be no work accident? Where are the social clauses that are indispensable when we talk of subcontradictions when we talk about public work? Again, we must say that in all cases it is not the same, and we have mentioned it more than once. Another charge against the same firm, for the same reason: It was a different way of looking at it. Then those who have been accused have been called and have been examined, and answered and repaired. That's why we say in this case, in the case of a high-speed train, it doesn't work the same way and we don't know why. I'm sure it's a double responsibility from our point of view. on the one hand, because we are speaking of a public work, and in this we must look after clauses and so on, and on the other, because it is also careful to guarantee the inspection. And we don't understand, as I say, what's going on in AHT's work, why it's like, "Mama doesn't take any more active handing and mending things like that."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u11	By continuing what was already provided to them by the previous adviser six months ago, I would like to report on a number of points. All existing complaints have been answered and completed, Arrondo anderea. 103 visits have been made in the three territories, and in Gipuzkoa the visits are carried out monthly, because it is the territory with the most volume of work. The department shows up when the inspectorate shows up. An extensive amount of documentation was verified on all site visits, which was also specified and moved on previous occasions. I am not going to detail the whole list now, but, for some examples, the work's Safety and Health Plan drawn up by the contractor is verified, sufficient documents relating to safety and health at work, the nominal relationship of workers and social insurance, the TC1 and the TC2 and, in addition, the justification that workers receive their wages in accordance with the implementing agreement. These inspections are carried out by the Inspectorate. As you can prove, the play of inspection is very profound, and, besides, the work of Osalan must be added to it. No one pretends to ignore them, much less to see them. Other people, perhaps, do as they please, because what they see is not censured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u12	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, María Isabel Celaa Déguez, a member of the Basque Socialists, a chief member of the Board of Education, of Education, of the third class of euculations which are to be made in Eusaculation." Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u13	Egun where you're going. Andrea president, lehendakari. Mrs. Uriarte, I ask you a sincere question. A good part of the centers in the Basque Country that you selected as a sample to perform experimentally the diagnostic evaluation of the third primary school has refused to its celebration. The rejection of families and teachers from public institutions, as well as some concerted ikastolas, has resulted in the controversial evaluation being carried out only in just over half of the sample selected by you. In view of this boycott, of this rejection, of the rejection of a considerable part of the schools in Euskadi to the pilot test carried out, what plans does your department have for the diagnostic evaluation established by LOMCE and for those for which we had? Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u15	Congressman, good day, Mr. President. Ma'am, my dear, the plans for evagnostic evaluation are very clearly explained on the project of elementary education constructed together with all the agents. It must be observed that within the New Year's Plan there was a wider process of participation than ever before, and that the operators agreed to the third-rate evaluation. That's why the order 54 is being issued as a evaluation diagnosis at the end of the third level of the First Education. This evaluation will have no academic influence, it will be a test in it, and the schools themselves will do it, considering the criteria and patterns which the series will put into the hands of the schools. All this has been received in a decree, Mrs. Celaa, and we have now made the balljes so that we can prepare these standards and standards. That has nothing to do with the individual evaluation from LOMCE. The pilot test we have conducted is designed to design the third-party diagnostic evaluation of Primary. For this purpose, information obtained from the tests performed between 614 and 775 responses will be analyzed in total for the skills of Basque, English, Spanish, Mathematical and Scientific. While there have been fewer responses than originally planned, they are sufficient to draw the necessary conclusions. In particular, what will be analysed is the application of computer tests with students of this age, the appropriate duration of the evaluation sessions and the proper functioning of the items to measure what is intended, as well as their linguistic adequacy. Following the analysis, guidelines, criteria and models will be developed and made available to the centres so that they can design and implement the third-party diagnostic evaluation in the most appropriate way. The Department of Education may complete this evaluation with an external sample evaluation of the system. It may be useful to recall that diagnostic assessments are a shared responsibility between the department and the centres. The aim is to improve pupils, schools and the educational system as a whole. And I sincerely hope so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u17	So, ma'am, you tell me you're doing the third and sixth primary assessment for Heziberri 2020, not for LOMCE. It is just a coincidence that LOMCE causes evaluations in the third grade of Primary and sixth grade of Primary, none in Secondary. Are you aware, ma'am, that you have received a valuable legacy – I also received it from my predecessor – of consolidating a culture of evaluation since 2009 for primary and secondary fourth, with references built since then? Are you aware, ma'am, that progress in education requires stability over time and wills to unite? Are you aware that you raised a very serious problem where there was a solution? No imaginary plots, ma'am. Why do you think that the assessments that were being formulated in the fourth and second, so incardinated in the system, had never suffered any protest or rejection by the educational community, and yours, the one you are trying to formulate, yes? Why do you change the evaluation from fourth to third? Where's the pedagogical report to do that? It's just, ma'am, you don't get it. It is not a question of families being misinformed or of educational agents using their words tortically. You just don't get it, ma'am. We don't know, we don't know if we're coming or going. We don't know why you changed your assessment from fourth to third. We don't know why he puts two evaluations in primary school and none in secondary school. Because diagnostic assessments, ma'am, that diagnosis has to be followed by treatment. Diagnostic evaluations need to be followed by plans to upgrade the centres. And if you place it, as Wert – which, by the way, is abandoning the ship in the middle of the shipwreck on the high seas – if you place it in the third and sixth of Primary, as Wert does, then who is going to make the improvement plan? Next episode? Hey, in high school you have to keep the evaluations we had; you have to keep our evaluations. And use creativity, because you could have done third-party tests, if you do it every day. But go on with the fourth and sixth. That's having a system of your own. Or what else is it to have one's own teaching system? Please stick to diagnostic assessments, to the culture of evaluation, because what works in education must not be changed. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u19	It's not about changing for change, it's about adapting to improve. And I know perfectly well that you are a fervent supporter of the fourth evaluation, as it could not be otherwise, as it comes from the LOE, from the socialist era. And it's not the pedagogical reasons you're bringing up. The conduct of diagnostic assessments of instrumental learning of oral, written and mathematical competence makes more sense in third rather than in Primary Room, for a very simple reason: to detect as soon as possible the difficulties for oral comprehension and expression, for reading, autonomous writing, as well as for the development of logical and arithmetic procedures. It makes it possible to implement corrective measures earlier and more preventively. And it is not because LOMCE says so, it is simply because in the elaboration of the Heziberri plan itself we have worked with all the agents and we have made a proposal that primary education can be classified in different ways according to the autonomy of the centers. Our proposal is in two cycles. So, it's logical that after a first cycle the diagnostic evaluation goes. And we will use all the adaptation, because everything above is collected. What is not to be done is to use the information in a twisting way, and I repeat it again, in a twisting way, depending on some interests, simply by making a mistake. Here we continue with the evaluation. And of course, don't worry, we'll have enough information to make it the most appropriate assessment for third grade primary students.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, the parliamentary members of Carmélo Barrio Barroja Popula Group, made to the Chief of Security, on the left side of the patriotic Guard, concerning insulting and threatening to pursue the Civil Guard." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u21	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I thought I still had to withdraw this initiative, but I see that you authorize the Civil Guard harassment campaign. And it is that the left abertzale, one of its ramifications, has organized an act of harassment against the Civil Guard in the Gipuzcoana town of Oñate, tomorrow, making it coincide sarcastically with the democratic call of the constitution of the municipalities. They want to turn Oñate into the capital of hate. It is one of the historical demands of ETA and this group of the left abertzale summoning the act will pose that discourse of hatred, insult, humiliation to the Civil Guard. This orchestrated campaign becomes intolerable, knowing how it has developed in the past, and the truth is that the Basque Government's Department of Security should take letters on the matter prohibiting that attack from being normal. Collectives of victims of terrorism have called for this to be the case. The Basque Government must give an adequate response to what is an unworthy and vile act like the one announced. And that is why we want to know what steps the Basque Government will take to ensure that the act of harassment and insult to the Civil Guard announced for tomorrow is not celebrated.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u22	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mrs. Heeddia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Perhaps you're right, Mr. Carmelo Barrio, it may be sarcastic and painful on the same day as some of the new councils, Oñatin, to call them a demonstration like that. But it's not a new story. And you know it. Keep in mind that in this same locality, since 1999, there have been about twenty similar protests to protest against the presence of the Civil Guard and only on one occasion has it been suspended. Therefore, that sarcasm you allude to should not surprise you. It's nothing new, isn't it? As you also know, every time a rally or demonstration is scheduled that brings together more than 20 people, the organizer must communicate it to the Ertzaintza, and in this case, once the communication is received, the director of the Ertzaintza, if he considers it appropriate to do so, issues a resolution respecting and adjusting the terms of the communication to the legal conditions that must be met and demanding its compliance. In this case too. Ertzaintza has a lot of experience in managing such acts and concentrations, and knows how to act and how to apply the law; I insist, it knows how to apply the law in these cases. And that's what he's going to do this time too, with the same procedure he's been applying in countless cases. No more or less, Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Beltrán de Heedia. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u25	Well, counselor, it does surprise me that insult and harassment campaigns are allowed in this case to the Civil Guard. A week ago you and the lehendakari were attending an act in which Mr. Urkullu launched a speech allegedly close to the victims, and the other day Covite, the main group of Euskadi victims, asked him to take steps to prevent the act of harassment of the Civil Guard, which would prohibit that act. What's going on? Are only speeches close to the victims and day to day are never heard again? The lehendakari wasn't sincere the other day? Tomorrow's ETA strategy, counselor, you know that. That is there, in their campaigns, in the judgments even that they have reported what that strategy is. And exactly a week ago the lehendakari speech was diametrically opposite. To summon a demonstration surrounding family dwellings, where minors reside, with the slogan "out of here", directing them to leave, and also to advertise it with insults in which they are called txakurras, is not protected by freedom of expression or freedom of assembly, counselor, and you know it. Discourse of hatred, humiliation of victims, crime of coercion, assault on privacy, may be many of these things in an act of such character. The discourse of hatred is not protected by freedom of expression in a democratic state. That is what the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights you will know say. And freedom of expression is subject to limitations that must be imposed by the public authorities, and you also know it, and in this case there will be that, there will be insults. And the interest of the child, counselor, not only the organic law in relation to the legal protection of the child, the 1989 Convention on the Rights of the Child: "States Parties shall take measures to ensure that the child is protected against any form of discrimination or punishment on the basis of the status, activities, opinions or beliefs of his or her parents." And tomorrow minors will be harassed in Oñate. Again, counselor, some want to turn Oñate tomorrow into the capital of absurdity and hatred, hatred and absurdity. The Left does not forgive the Civil Guard for its act of dismantling ETA. Counselor, you must prevent that act of harassment tomorrow.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u26	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u27	Mr. Barrio, don't demagogy. We can agree that certain expressions or slogans associated with the call for tomorrow's demonstration in Oñati can constitute a total disrespect for public workers. I also expressed in his day my disagreement with the ruling of the Arab Provincial Court that the Cypriot expression was not criminal. Nor do I agree that calling two local police officers sons of bitches is not considered a lack of respect for authority, as the Bizkaia Provincial Court has just established by ratifying the ruling of the Barakaldo Court of Instruction No. 2. I do not know that you, on the other hand, have protested about it. In any case, you have the perfect right to label this initiative tomorrow as hate speech and to consider it also vehement for the members of the Benemerita and also for their families, as has the government delegate. But beyond the opinion that we deserve certain slogans and certain behaviors, there is the law and the law is to fulfill it. And with the law in hand, in the communication of the act planned for tomorrow in Oñati, with the slogans of "fan hemendik!", "Uzi bakean" a "indar okupatzaileak kampora!", we do not see how we can reasonably estimate that there are indications that may constitute a crime and, as such, potentially generating disturbances of public order that are dangerous to people or property, which is what the law says. Mr. Barrio, don't ask the department to break the law and prevent tomorrow's demonstration in Oñati. Don't make the same mistake that 15 days ago those who asked us not to comply with a ruling of the National Court were involved. With your insistence on these days for the Ertzaintza to ban Saturday's call in Oñati, you are seeking to achieve through media pressure what you know you cannot achieve through the judicial process. You know you don't have a court route. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u28	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Five point in theme list: "I'm asking you, Gorka Maniero Labayen Misto-UPyD members made to the president about the consequences of the Pinsolo lawsuit for the Basque Mitch." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u29	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Lehendakari, I bring back the Pinosolo affair, the Pinosolo scandal. I think that in an advanced democracy worthy of such a name, Mr.Eneko Arruabarrena would not today be managing director of Metro Bilbao. We can see what was the opinion of the Leioa City Council's commission of inquiry. The opinion was conclusive. It concluded that there were serious irregularities in this matter, that the law was violated, that there was mismanagement and that there was also waste of public money. This opinion was conclusive and politically responsible for all this to Eneko Arruabarrena. Where is this gentleman re-located today? It's repositioned in Bilbao Metro. This seems absolutely regrettable and unacceptable to us. We therefore have to make the committee's opinion clear and forceful, and we also know, because we saw it, that this gentleman refused to appear in that committee of inquiry to clarify everything he wanted to clarify, he did not cooperate with that committee of inquiry. Moreover, when he appeared in Parliament, he refused to answer the questions of the groups. We therefore understand that this person cannot continue to hold that office and that the Basque Government must do everything possible to remove him from office. Furthermore, we also think that in an advanced democracy, in a democracy worthy of that name, Councilwoman Oregi could not remain in her position either. This is what we think. For many months they have been refusing to answer the various parliamentary groups on this issue, and yet the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government seem to be above good and evil, everything slips and nothing affects them, and we are not willing to remain or be silent. We therefore believe that if transparency, excellence, accountability or good governance were to prevail in Euskadi, neither of them would remain in their position, would have ceased, would have been removed or would have promoted their cessation. Mr. Lehendakari, what are you going to do about this? Are you going to promote your cessation? Are you going to promote your dismissal?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u30	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mrs. Oregi, who's a teacher, is in the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u31	Egun where I was. Mr Maneiro, yesterday the plenary of this House took a decision with a large majority, after a vote in which you yourself took part. I would have expected from you, who always demands respect for the democratic decisions of this Parliament, the consequent withdrawal of the question you have raised. I will not insist on the arguments that were profusely expressed yesterday. Parliament has asked the Government to raise this issue with the Committee on the Code of Ethics. What I can assure you is that this is exactly what the Government is going to do and we will not take any decisions before we know the committee's resolution. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u33	Thank you. Mr Lehendakari, you refuse to face this issue. We are talking about a possible case of very serious political corruption and yet you are again putting yourself on the profile. Mrs Oregi, Mr Lehendakari, we are talking about waste of public money, political clientelism, free travel for public offices paid by contracting companies, we are talking about influence trafficking, we are talking about discretion and arbitrariness, we are talking about rotating doors, relocation of certain people to certain posts, we are talking about public representatives who refuse to cooperate with a commission of inquiry, refuse to appear and refuse to answer questions from the groups. It's absolutely unacceptable. Indeed, you have found the usual travel companion, in this case the Socialist Group has again helped the Basque Nationalist Party to save him. Anyway, they are in their right, they will give the appropriate explanations. But we think that behind that decision there is a secret pact signed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party to cover up their shame. This is the reality. It is unacceptable, it is unacceptable, that both Mr. Eneko Arruabarrena and Mrs. Oregi can remain in their post after all we have been able to know. This, indeed, if we lived in an advanced democracy. But we live in a place where a national movement governs, which is the Basque Nationalist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u34	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u35	The Basque Government highly appreciates the management of Metro Bilbao, a company in which we participate by 50%. This management is supported by the positive evolution of society's performance. Once again, I will tell you that your directive structure has been weakened, the cost has been substantially reduced, the socio-occupational conflict has been brought to an end, absenteeism has been reduced. Travellers who use the metro service value it with a rating of 8.16 out of 10, the company's coverage rate reaches 85.13%, a reference date throughout the world of metropolitan transport. The reliability of the service reaches 99.86 % and the punctuality 98.23. These are the results that support Metro Bilbao's management. What the Basque Government is not going to do is evaluate the management carried out in a municipality, in a given municipality. It's not up to us to judge him. And I would also like to remind you of something that you also know well: Mr Arruebarrena has no open judicial case in relation to the matter that you are dealing with in this House over and over again. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Group, Cristina Ruiz Bujedo, made for the president, as the visitor of the Asociación de Dilomtaicos Extranjeros." Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where we're supposed to be. The Association of Foreign Diplomats in Spain was created in 1998 and brings together all diplomats from the foreign embassies present in Spain, in order to provide them with better knowledge and a closer rapprochement to their culture and values. As far as we are concerned, there have been 140 meetings between the Basque Government and diplomatic representatives from more than 80 countries. The diplomatic corps destined for Spain thus demonstrates its great interest in getting to know the Basque Country more and better. The last of these visits took place this same month in June. On this occasion, 20 diplomats from 14 countries visited Euskadi. On the programme of these diplomats, among other things, meetings have been held with the Secretary General of External Action, Marian Elorza, the Vice-Advisor of Commerce and Tourism, Itziar Epalza and the Director of Basquetour, Arantza Madariaga. It is to be assumed, when meetings of this nature are held with representatives of foreign embassies in Spain, that the Basque Government sets out criteria and pursues objectives, which can be common to all diplomats, and concrete depending on the countries they represent. In any case, I would like to know what assessment the Basque Government makes of the meetings held with the representatives of the Association of Foreign Diplomats in Spain as part of its visit to Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u39	Legebiltzarburu anderea, legebiltzarkideok, silburuok, jaun-andreok, egun on guztioi. Indeed, Mrs Ruiz, this visit had been organized by the Association of Foreign Diplomats in Spain, ADE, in collaboration with the General Secretariat for Foreign Action and Basquetour. The group held a working meeting with the Secretariat-General, in particular with the Secretary-General for External Action, Mrs Marian Elorza, as you have rightly pointed out; also with the Deputy Councillor for Trade and Tourism, Mrs Itziar Epalza, and also with the Director of Basquetour, Mrs Arantza Madariaga. I have to tell you that the visit was very complete and that the group met, in addition to what may be other elements in the working meetings, the localities of Laguardia, Gasteiz, Bilbao, Hondarribia, Donostia, Zumaia and Getaria. I think it is noteworthy that this meeting allowed us to present the Basque Country Strategy, which has already been presented in the Basque Parliament and which all the parliamentary groups therefore know. And it also highlighted, among many others, the relevance of the Donostia 2016 project as European capital next year, as I said. You ask me about the ratings. Indeed, the evaluation of the working meetings and also of the visit of the Association of Foreign Diplomats for the Basque Government has been very positive. And I believe that this same visit, together with the relations that we have with the entire diplomatic corps, is a new confirmation of the interest of the diplomatic corps as a whole in knowing directly, in the first person and in depth the reality of Euskadi. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u41	Thank you. The mission of Action Exterior is to project the best image of Euskadi abroad for the benefit of Basque society, its institutions, its businesses and its citizens. And that of Basquetour, for its part, also lead the drive and implementation of the strategy of competitiveness of tourism defined for Euskadi. Of course, foreign diplomats in Spanish embassies, because of their mere status, represent a qualitatively important group in transmitting the objectives of improving the competitiveness of our tourism as an economic activity that can generate wealth and employment, and it is logical that every effort be made to get them to leave with a good impression of our land. This group if after their visit has been satisfied and even delighted, there are many chances that they will return to Euskadi and recommend us as a destination. And having diplomats willing to exercise Euskadi's prescriptors is a timely and important position and objective, which our group will of course support. In any case, I suppose the origin of these diplomats could have also made them have different interests within their agenda. And I would also like to know whether that has been the case or whether it has been the same visit, with the same objectives for all representatives, regardless of their country of origin, because we do not have the same interests according to which country it is. In any case, the economic stake and focus on this sector by the external action of the Government will always have our support. In addition, I think it is much more important to underline this dimension of internationalization of companies, of Euskadi's international projection, of attraction of investments and travellers, of course much more preferable to what may be another type of foreign or international political action that we do not share, such as that of internationalizing supposed conflicts or staging simulations of non-existent states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz, for answering, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u43	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu anderea. Mrs Ruiz, I share the view, and in addition, by taking up what you said in your first speech, I do remember that since December 2012 we have been attending 140 meetings with representatives from 80 countries, that is, more than one meeting a week. And not only the meeting with the Association of Foreign Diplomats, but with the entire diplomatic corps. I want to say that it highlights the interest of these delegations in first hand knowing the institutional reality, the political reality, but also the economic and cultural reality of Euskadi, as it is logical, as well as offering the vision of their countries of representation and also their interests, which are different in each case and also for Euskadi. They are different as we speak of Latin America, as we speak of the American continent, of the European Union or of the region of... or let's talk about the countries of the Middle East or the countries of the Arab League, are different interests; business interests, economic interests, cultural interests, political-institutional interests. I think it is necessary to stress that we are taking advantage of this interest that they show in Euskadi as an opportunity. The Government as a whole, and myself as a lehendakari, we devote time, which is necessary, and effort to serve these delegations coming to Euskadi. And not only those who come to Euskadi; moreover, I have come to Madrid on three occasions to hold working meetings with foreign representatives collectively. Each year we also organize a reception for the accredited consular body. And these meetings, all of them, allow us to know the reality of the countries that visit us and also to raise opportunities of mutual interest in all areas of activity. I frame this work in the Basque Country strategy, which aims to position our country in the new global scenario. And this strategy defines the objectives, the initiatives, the priority markets to enhance Euskadi's position abroad. I believe that the work of the Government accompanies a challenge that is faced in all fields of activity, I insist, not only institutional and political, but also economic and industrial, educational-university, cultural and sporting. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interrelation, the parliamentary members of the Basque Groups of Cristina Ruiz Bujedo, made to the Chief of Economical Economics and competency, the creative city of Bilbao." Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u45	Eskerrik asko berriro, Mrs. lehendakari. At the end of 2014 Bilbao was incorporated into the UNESCO network of creative cities in the design section. This international recognition was preceded by a great effort and a determined commitment of institutions, society and political groups so that the villa of Bilbao would be designated in 2014 world design capital. This aspiration could not have been, but, as a finalist, the city and territory of Bizkaia deepened their policies to make creativity and design future axes for their economy. Years of work in this direction have been endorsed by the consideration of Unesco, which opens up new opportunities and prospects for economic growth for the territory. The expectations opened up in the sector for the direct impact this recognition has on creative industries and their professionals in Bilbao and Bizkaia must undoubtedly be the subject of further initiatives, measures and policies by the Basque Government, in particular the Department of Economic Development and Competitiveness. Belonging to the UNESCO network of creative cities provides more prestige, reputation and notoriety to Bilbao. The international platform that UNESCO represents makes us gain competitiveness, open ourselves to new markets, strengthens the strengths of creative industries. In short, it stimulates economic and social development. Businesses and entities in the creative industries sector thus have an opportunity for the future and an opportunity to create jobs. The creative economy is also in the midst of growth. Today it already accounts for more than 6% of the economic fabric in Bilbao and around 5% of the existing employment. Placing the creative economy as a key factor within Bilbao's development strategy takes on a new impetus following UNESCO's official recognition. Richard Florida, one of the world's most prestigious intellectuals in economic competitiveness, demographic trends and technological innovation, and ambassador for the 2009 European Year of Creativity and Innovation, popularized and disseminated in the world of ideas what has already become a trend. The creative industry is a broad concept of activities that includes cultural industries, plus all cultural artistic production, whether individually produced shows or goods. Creative industries are those in which the product or service contains a substantial artistic or creative element, and includes factors such as architecture and advertising. The potential of creative industries as a differentiated area is already of interest to economists, statisticians, cultural experts. From this comes the question I ask the councilwoman, so that the leaders who develop public policies, including her department, make this new opportunity that UNESCO has offered us for 2015 an acquiescence in designing new measures. All this reflects the growing awareness of the vital role played by these industries in the current socio-economic context, both for their economic potential and as a vehicle for the dissemination of cultural diversity. Not all Governments are convinced of this need, that this sector is the subject of new initiatives and advocacy. In Bilbao and Bizkaia yes, and also with a great social and political consensus. A conviction that I hope and trust will not lose momentum with the new municipal and outlying governments to be formed in Bilbao and Bizkaia. The Basque Government can do much to ensure that this bet does not fail and that, on the contrary, the opportunity offered by UNESCO is an aggravation that redoubles the efforts of the Basque Government to create jobs and economic activity around design and creativity in the territory. Unesco itself gives us economic reasons and arguments in favour of this sector: It brings great added value, generates direct and indirect employment, glimpses a great potential for growth in the coming years, facilitates the introduction of other types of products in the external markets, contributes to balance the export balance, contributes to the development of social trust, allows a re-evaluation of brands and products, attracts tourism, facilitates mobility, generates sustainable resources in the long term, and transforms and regenerates urban spaces. Taking into account all these kindnesses and opportunities offered by this economic sector, and after six months since Bilbao was incorporated into the creative cities network of Unesco, Mrs Tapia, I would like to ask you the following question in your capacity as Counsellor of Economic Development and Competitiveness of the Autonomous Executive. I wanted to know what purposes the Basque Government and its department have to work together with the Bizkaia Provincial Council, the Bilbao City Council and agents involved in design, who contribute to creating qualified employment, strengthen the specialization and business fabric of Bilbao and Bizkaia, and thus contribute to the strategic setting of this territory symbolized in its consideration of the creative city by UNESCO.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. In reply, Mrs. Tapia, the Lobby Boy, is in the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments and congressmen. It may be said that during the past few decades we have made striking progresss in innovation, but also in order to establish and establish the factors which tend to this innovation, and the results of public policies, and the development of new services. For example, no one doubts and disputes nowadays that technology and innovation are the foundation of a permanent and good growth of economy. The industrial policy which has been developed through Eukadin years by the fruit of this belief, in which we consider as the basis of innovation and knowledge, and that they are the main axis. He said that during these decades we have made considerable progress in understanding what the main policies are, how innovation has to be translated into our policies, and what we have to do from a public point of view to help all our companies develop innovative products, processes and services. Today, no one is discussing the central role of science technology and innovation as supports for a country's sustainable growth and development. The result of this conviction has been a large part of the industrial policy developed in this country, in Euskadi, for years, not only now, but in recent decades, as an engine of the economy based of course on that innovation and knowledge. Being at a crossroads between arts, business and technology, the sectors of the cultural industries – and among them the design, as you said – are in a strategic position. Strategic to trigger indirect effects in other industries in addition, not only in themselves. And to use an expression of a recent European report, "to act as catalysts for innovation in other processes". This analysis should bring a new perspective to ways of doing, in our way of understanding innovation, the company, and lead us to make other decisions and consider them as factors of competitiveness, especially considering creativity and design within those factors of competitiveness. It is true that the contribution and contribution of these design activities of the cultural and creative industries within the economic development of our country is not yet fully recognized, we have not really quantified it. But it is necessary to take advantage of the potential we have in order to achieve economic performance, of course. And especially, considering it from the point of view of the contribution that they can make to our young people, where really this type of technology, this type of innovation, are clearer than in the rest of the economy. In general, these sectors can have a significant impact on innovation, in addition to other industries. Innovation is increasingly driven by factors that are not purely technological innovation, but by creativity, as we said, by the design and application of new business management models within our economic sector. It depends to a large extent on the creative ecosystems on which we equip ourselves, it is true. In addition, in them quality, the diversity of partnerships that we have can make this kind of actors a determining factor. An obvious example is the greater use of design within what manufacturing industries are, as they bring added value that has not been sufficiently considered so far. Therefore, really in industrial design we are also focusing on what is our new Basque Industry 4.0 strategy, which covers from really those initial design processes to the end of the lifespan process of a machine, of a service, of something we are putting into operation. But it is necessary to mention the role that strategies in addition to urban design and territorial development play in new global scenarios. Cities and regions are the driving force behind competitiveness and global growth in the coming decades, and there is no doubt about that right now. Cities and regions that compete and compete with each other globally, to retain talent, to attract it, to make new investments, to ultimately generate development and economy in the region. And for that, of course, smart specialization and diversification strategies are crucial in the economic transformation of our territories. Innovation in the definition of strategic projects of country, region, city, of course is key to competitiveness and we are looking at it. And aware of this, as you said, the Bizkaia Provincial Council and the Bilbao City Council have promoted a concrete territorial strategy, and the value of this interinstitutional collaboration in the field of external projection is verified. In addition, the important weight of design and creativity in this strategy developed by both institutions mobilizes local talent and mobilizes international talent towards our territory. On this basis, intensive collaboration has been established, as well as specific priority areas of action, such as economic development, training and research, administration and society, and external projection of this territory. These are concrete strategies for which there is inter-agency collaboration. And to reinforce this effort, the Bizkaia Provincial Council and the Bilbao City Council, with the support of the Basque Government, launched the Bilbao Design & Creativity Council initiative, at an event that was held in the Alhóndiga, in which I also personally participated, to promote everything mentioned above with a series of concrete actions. In addition, in all this they have the support of the Basque Government, but not only the support, but the day-to-day presence in the implementation of this strategy as SPRI, the Basque Government agency, participates in the Board of Directors of that Council. As soon as the new municipal and outlying leaders take office, I propose, as in other territories of course, to establish contact with the new directors to activate this strategy and from the minute one share, coordinate and carry out the necessary actions within this strategy already defined in those four axes that I have already commented to you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Tapia, as you have acknowledged and commented, the creative economy and its development have been the subject of strategic plans and public policies, both in the Basque Government and at the municipal level in the Bilbao City Council, and also in the Bizkaia District Council. We have been working on this for a long time, but it is true that in the case of Bilbao and Bizkaia that bet has been very important, it has been a priority, it has also managed to bring together consensus from many social and political sectors, and there has also been a lot of commitment from people. We already know that institutions remain and people change, but people also give imprint to their policies and that is unequivocal. Therefore, my concern that changes in executives can slow down the pace at this bet in which Bilbao has placed many expectations. The success and growth of this sector is unequivocal, but also and to a large extent the public administrations, creating conditions and adopting concrete policies, can be able to boost and promote this trend of economic growth. I am of the opinion that it is primarily the companies and the affected sector that have the greatest role to play, but administrations and governments must put in place the right conditions. My question was not so much about knowing and delving into the policies that have been carried out for decades or in recent times, which I already knew, but which is also appreciated to remember, but about whether the fact that Bilbao has been considered within the European network of creative cities of UNESCO has been an added impetus or has been an element that has led to some kind of re-thinking of measure or policy from the point of view of internationalisation of this Bilbao bet. That is why I am saying that it is not just about how we have come here, because we know it, but what we are going to do from now on to take advantage of this new opportunity, because I understand that it is not the same, I am not saying that it is not qualitatively determinant, but there is a before and after in these policies when it comes to obtaining this international recognition. In the 2014 budgets there was no record, no certainty, no assurance that Bilbao would be able to incorporate itself into this, it is also logical that no separate ad hoc measures were envisaged. But now it is, now it has been six months, I think also, in view of the budgets that will be designed by your department for 2016, this new condition of Bilbao as a creative city should make us take one more twist and take advantage of this opportunity. That is why I wanted to know whether in these six months and what is left of the year there is any measure that has been derived from this international recognition by UNESCO. And if not, beyond the fact that they have continued with those already there, I announce that I will present a motion in this sense, not to amend any plan, God frees me, but simply to take into account this fact that, in the eyes of the Basque Government perhaps it does not have so much transcendence, but knowing the intrahistory and background of all the work that has been done in Bilbao and Bizkaia, I think it deserves from its executive and its department some measure or some additional impulse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u51	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Well, we are aware that the design of a product is an activity of high value within the strategies and the way in which new products are generated, provided that it is properly articulated and combined with other factors, facilitating a high degree of differentiation, this is usually the objective. But it is also no less true that design as such cannot be regarded as a general factor in itself, but as another means of achieving a certain objective that we had previously set ourselves. In other words, a product that incorporates innovative aspects, which make it possible to generate advantages, must consider the introduction of design in its whole strategy, that is true. He commented that within the areas of action that we had considered within that Board of Directors where we participated together with the rest of the institutions – that is, there is the Government, there is the Diputation and there is the City Council – there are four axes of action and they are clear what each of the areas of action to be developed. Being one of them the projection of Bilbao-Bizkaia territory obviously, but Euskadi as a whole, the qualification obtained from Unesco is not an additional element, but it was part of its own strategy, that is, within these four areas of action, the last one, that of the projection of the territory, led as an action to develop the achievement of an international recognition, as it has been that of Unesco. Then, it is not an additional element to what was being done, but part of the strategy itself. Within each of the fields, for example, in the development of economic sectors, special emphasis is placed on the development of areas of design and creativity with industrial design, as he commented; thus, fashion, furniture, video games, audiovisual, digital economy. In the promotion of graduate and postgraduate studies, particular emphasis has obviously been placed on industrial design in Bizkaia and support for ecodesign, ecodesign training. Within the urban sphere, special emphasis was also being placed on local trade as a catalyst for the economy and the strategy of new products and services. And, of course, the international dissemination of actions launched was the achievement of a recognition of this team. Then, within what is the strategy of these four areas, the recognition this does is to put the territory of Bizkaia in the world, yes, but also allow us to continue deepening throughout the strategy. It's nothing additional, but part of those performances we were doing. We work side by side with the rest of the institutions and we will continue in the same line and in the same strategy, deepening especially at the international level, with the achievement of the implementation of the Basque Country strategy, also from the point of view of design and cultural and creative industries, but without additional actions, within these four lines of action, with the actions planned, since it is a strategic plan that has already been approved and that we continue to work, I insist, between the three institutions and the agents involved. Because, like you, you said public administrations alone, we can't do that. Private agents are working side by side with us too, and above all it is they who have to carry out the strategy. We are the necessary companions and those who work to ensure that this internationalization takes place. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. 9th point on the subject list: "I'm asking you, María del López de Ocariz López de Munez de Muninka, members of the Popilative Groups of Economics and the Chief of competition, a decree on the progress of the parliaments to present in this session a decree concerning the love of the Basques." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, counselors. Madam Counsellor, on 29 April 2014, more than a year ago, the Basque Government approved the Industrialization Plan for the period 2014-2016. In line four of this plan, and as measures for the generation of a competitive energy industrial context, it was announced, among other measures, the deployment of targeted energy saving and efficiency actions and support for renewables, an energy efficiency saving plan in public buildings and the early adoption of an energy sustainability decree by the Basque Government. On 19 February 2015, this House urged the Basque Government to present this decree at this session. Madam Counsellor, the session is ending and we would like to know what position this decree is in.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. I'm sure it's yours, Mrs. Tapia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. López de Octariz, you know we all respect everything that's accepted here and, as you say, this prediction that was in our industrial plan. Sustainability and energy efficiency, as you all know, is a pillar of this government's energy policy. And as regards the scope of the energy sustainability decree being drafted, I would like to point out to you that it falls within the requirements of European legislation, in which the Administration itself understands that it is necessary for savings, energy efficiency, the use of renewable energy and sustainable transport to cease to be laudable targets and become observable realities. Therefore, the decree currently being drafted will not only set basic objectives, but also specific measures linked to specific temporary criteria, emphasizing the exemplary role of an administration, in this case the Basque Government. It will apply throughout the general administration of the Community, in its bodies, bodies and public societies, as well as in foundations and consortia of the public sector. And it seeks precisely that exemplary effect, to the extent that it incorporates the entire Basque administration into a series of obligations, which we hope will also have their effect on the rest of society. The process of approving the decree is in the final stages of the internal control mechanisms of the government. He has already passed through the Office of Economic Control and is currently at the Legal Advisory Commission in Cojua. Once you have completed this process, you will be ready for approval by the Governing Council. I hope that it will be a matter of a few weeks before we can bring him up to the Governing Council, because, I insist, he is in the last of his steps. Furthermore, with regard to the drafting of the law, which extends the scope of this decree itself, I confirm that the last draft of this law is already being drafted within the time limits envisaged and that, as soon as this drafting phase is complete, the process of public information will be carried out, as always, and it is envisaged that the Government will send the bill to Parliament within the time limits. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u57	Madam Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. Energy saving is the first available source of renewable energy; the cleanest, the most economical, the most environmentally friendly energy is the energy that is not consumed. European Directive 27/2012 on energy efficiency requires that 3 % of the total area of public buildings of the Administration should be rehabilitated annually in the period 2014-2020, or alternative measures should be put in place to achieve the same amount of energy savings. Madam Councilwoman, this government is not meeting this requirement. Let's go slow, too slow, I'd say too slow. In addition to taking responsibility, undertaking, action must be taken, and this Government does not act at the moment. We believe it is urgent to intervene, to act, to achieve greater respect for the environment and the rights of the new generations, and it is essential to modify and reduce energy consumption. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that 28% of the world's population consumes 77% of the total energy produced, i.e. 72% of the world's population survives with 23% of the remaining energy. Therefore, Commissioner, we believe that you and this government will have to take additional steps to ensure that we comply with the European directive by 2020. We are in 2015, announcing that soon the decree will come out. Can you tell me what degree of effective implementation this will have as soon as the decree comes out? What consensus, what action does it have planned with the other administrations of the Basque Autonomous Community to ensure that we actually comply with the percentages required by the European directive? Madam Counsellor, we have four years in which we will have to act very quickly. Therefore, I understand that, in addition to announcing a law, that probably next year that law can be passed, what it has to have is a plan of measures to implement already. There are administrations that are doing it on their own. But of course we believe that there is a lot of work to be done and that we cannot be with that year and peak to develop a decree that is marking a few percentages, which requires us at least to comply with what the European directive says. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, I believe that all planned actions must be speeded up significantly, because time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Mme. lópez de Ocarariz, as is said in euscript, "the prices are half corrupt." What we are actually doing, I have told you, the decree covers all the bodies of the general administration of the Community. So, you're going to get perfectly to that third that you say. But we don't settle for that. Meanwhile that's going on, you know perfectly well that it's going on, implementing energy efficiency programs in buildings directly with the Department of Employment and Housing, you know that. We are implementing a housing rehabilitation programme that includes energy efficiency. We have specific programmes from the EVE to make that a reality. In addition, measures have been taken and energy efficiency measures continue to be adopted in industry and transport, trying precisely to ensure that energy efficiency and the lowest consumption are the best measures we are implementing, together with the application of renewable energy and the use of gas as a transitional energy. They're part of the energy strategy. But they are not beliefs or elements that I am commenting on here, but real facts that we are putting into action. In addition to the decree, which, I insist, will be shortly, since it lacks the last procedure, and the law that is put into effect. Then, Mrs. Ocariz, it's not beliefs, it's performances. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interspicious appeal, made by the members of the Basque Socialists of Bišen Ichaus González, a member of the United States, and of the leading department of Common society, as well as of the worthy conditions of employment for the workers." My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u61	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor. The agreement that we are going to ask for has been initialled by the organisations mentioned in the justification a few days ago, on 8 June, and on it I will raise this question on the basis of four elements that I would like to highlight. First of all, I would like to refer to the 2012 labour reform. While not necessarily talking about wage adjustments, it was true that it was gravitational about the fact of competitiveness and, on the basis of that competitiveness, an internal devaluation was proposed, which is the only real objective that this labour reform has achieved. In such a way that, from the sources taken, wages have lost purchasing power in a more than obvious way, and thus, in recent times, this tendency to lose purchasing power has increased wage inequality. Another aspect of labour reform was the importance it attached to company agreements. In this there is a curious coincidence with the union ELA, the majority union, and with LAB, which although they proclaim the opposite, that is, their defense of collective bargaining, the truth is that their praxis leaves much to be desired in view of the results. At present, 70% of workers in Euskadi are not renewing their collective agreement. The Third Agreement for Employment and Collective Negotiation, signed by Workers' Commissions and UGT with Cepyme and CEOE for 2015, 2016 and 2017, advocates, among other things, the strengthening of collective bargaining and the out-of-court settlement of labour disputes. And the objective is to initiate the recovery of purchasing power with increases of 1% by 2015, 1.5 by 2016 and a guarantee clause linked to inflation. It should also be considered that the difficulties of negotiation between these partners were precisely due to a deflation situation, which made it difficult to raise increases. These increases are to break the trend of continued loss of purchasing power and will contribute to improving domestic demand. Secondly, I would like to highlight the trade union strategy of the majority power stations to which I have referred, because it is well known and well known that this trade union strategy which makes collective bargaining block it, taking advantage of its greater representativeness and thus prevents the possibility of regaining lost purchasing power for many workers. We have talked about this many times, but at the moment this is nothing more than a mere contextualization of the question. In addition, this Government has also expressed its wish to be able to conclude an agreement with the scope achieved in Madrid by the Third Agreement for Employment and Collective Negotiation. We believe that the agreement reached in Madrid can be improved and we believe that in Euskadi, if the two nationalist power stations wanted, we could better recover those working conditions. But it is known that they do not want to sit at the table, we know who are willing to do it. Moreover, they have also mentioned that this agreement for employment and collective bargaining does not deserve the slightest attention, when – and I have here a number of examples, which I will not quote for a matter of time – a number of company agreements, in which the majority of trade unions are from ELA and LAB, are far below the increases that are agreed in this agreement for employment and collective bargaining. The third element I would like to highlight is what I see as the government's funeral march on these issues. Because it says, on the one hand, that it would like to reach agreements such as that in Madrid, but really, apart from wanting it, it is necessary to make a greater effort, which makes a greater effort visible. Only setting up the Social Dialogue Bureau has led him to half a parliamentary term and all because of this reverential fear of bringing the opposite to the nationalist unions. Beyond the mimetic translation of the agreements reached in Madrid, here we already have an advanced space. By force of pressure, as I say, the Government ends up convening the Social Dialogue Bureau with which they were willing to make sense and channel the budgetary programmes that we agreed in this Parliament. And that indispensable forum set a number of challenges for this year. In the middle of 2015, we see a lack of nerve to carry forward those actions in which we have explicit support not only from this Parliament, but from the actors themselves. It was decided to launch a proactive rehabilitation programme, from a sustainable construction perspective, for workers in a sector that has brutally accused the crisis as it is for construction. We do not know the lines of action that have been drawn up concerning the training of unemployed people, the encouragement of recruitment or awareness-raising campaigns to undertake rehabilitation projects in neighbouring communities. We already know, it is true, that it is the social actors who have to implement this rehabilitation plan. But the responsibility lies with you, the department, because we Socialists are already looking for funding in a specific amendment to this year's budgets. And it is up to this department, which has sufficient technical and legal support, to put on that table the proposal full of concretions on which the employer and agents decide the model. The months go by, and this departure aimed at finding exits for those who ran out of work when the real estate bubble punctured can't stay in the drawer. The same applies to the system of recognition of skills acquired through professional experience and non-formal learning for people affected by EREs. There is no record of a specific procedure for carrying out such recognitions. We know that a draft decree was made, which was backed by the social agents, but it is still not published half a year later. There are excuses for internal processing in the Government with the Department of Education, etc. Other more complex decrees, which even sought to avoid challenges from the Spanish Government, such as the one to compensate for pharmaceutical retaliatory measures, took less time to publish. Neither for the unemployed in construction nor for young people. In January the Bureau decided on an impetus for the youth relay contract, but the social partners are still waiting for a concrete approach and have been waiting for a little longer than a month since the department said it would send it. Coinciding with that promise to social workers, the counselor made that statement urging young people not to leave, to stay and to endure. But this has to be accompanied, as I say, by news that tells us how the agreements are going at the Social Dialogue Bureau to give Lanbide, for example, a new approach, which we also knew a few days ago, not knowing if that was a reliable news or a probe balloon, about the possibility of referring the management of the RGI to members and municipalities to pensioners in order to focus Lanbide on those who have some possibility of job inclusion. But there is no record that the Lanbide Council is closing down any plans in this regard. Therefore, and beyond the excuses of some trade unions with respect to the Madrid agreement and beyond the declaration of intentions so that this agreement can be transferred here to Euskadi, it is for this reason that we – and here comes the fourth point, which would be the application and extension of this Euskadi agreement – will ask you. Here we have lines of action, budgets, political, business and trade union coverage. What we lack is a more appreciable, clearer, stronger leadership. Therefore, we ask you at this time what the adviser, who already has a mattress in the Social Dialogue Bureau, intends to do in the Basque Country to promote a framework agreement on collective bargaining and wage increases in line with the one reached with the rest of Spain by the employer CEOE and the unions Workers Commissions and UGT, despite the strategies that the unions may have and despite the inertia that the government carries.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u62	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u63	Mrs. President of the Parliament, members of the legislature, good morning. As you say very well in your interpelation, Mr. Ichaso, we all know that only Eucharin, the sort of alliance obtained in Spain, would be possible between the patrician Confebask and the euscal unions. Besides, it appears in your writing that we all know the position of the most important central unions. These unional institutions of ELA and LAB have almost 60% of the union delegation between them. The position of both organizations with regard to the Collective Bargaining Agreement signed between the CEOE employer and the unions Commissions and UGT is of absolute rejection, as is public and notorious. If that were not enough, this week it has been published in the media that the Alavesa employer SEA is also not in agreement with the implementation of the state agreement in Euskadi. Therefore, Mr Itxaso, if the trade union majority and at least part of the employer maintain their opposition to the signing in Euskadi of a framework agreement on collective bargaining, and it is they who must sign it, you will understand that the difficulty is capital, regardless of the will of this government, which knows what it is. However, this government, in contrast to your written content, is conducting a few forums, and is engaged in social conversations with work and collective negotiation. I must recall that it was the heads of the department that led those who, in view of the insecurity that arose in collective bargaining for the new regulation of labour reform in relation to the ultra-activity of collective agreements, promoted and directed an inter-professional agreement before the Labour Relations Council, which could have allowed a more appropriate transition than that being carried out in the implementation of labour reform. Agreement that, after a large number of meetings, had a trade union majority, not only of UGT and Commissions, but also of LAB, but that Confebask's representation chose not to subscribe at the last moment. Also after many meetings with all the most representative trade union organizations, the tripartite dialogue table was really set up on 4 December 2014, with two not insignificant statements: one on the draft of the draft of the royal decree on the deposit of statutes of trade union and business organizations, which precisely defended ELA and LAB; and the other on social dialogue. This tripartite dialogue table was reconvened on 30 January, and several agreements were reached on the Basque Employment Strategy 2015-2020, the Employment Action Plan 2015, the Basque Occupational Safety and Health Strategy, and a statement from the table in defence of the Basque income guarantee system. Collective bargaining is at the moment, we all know it, totally or almost completely blocked in Euskadi. And the situation is very worrying for all workers and for this government. According to data from the Labour Relations Council, with reference to last month there are about 100,000 workers whose agreements are fallen and pending recovery, and almost 290,000 with agreements of extended validity and pending renewal, who fortunately have managed at least to maintain the ultraactivity in many of them. Only 171,000 are those who have an ordinary agreement this year. And in the year 2015 in Euskadi only 6 collective agreements of a sectoral nature and 51 companies have been signed. Let each one look, in effect, where he looks, depending on the responsibility he has. The Basque Government is aware of this situation and I assure you, Mr Itxaso, that we are maintaining permanent bilateral relations with representatives of all trade union organizations, of all, and also of business. Our aim is to activate the negotiations between the parties, so that agreements can be reached in those agreements of greatest impact – read the metal conventions of Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa, Álava – and that they can be extended to other sectoral and territorial areas, and we are making progress. But the department's work doesn't stay there either. We are actively participating in the resolution of labour disputes through mediation, which are complex processes, with long strikes over time and with great mistrust between the parties. It has been intermediated in a significant number of these. And this task has had important fruits, in agreements that sometimes pass too unnoticed, as in the service stations of Bizkaia, Cementos Lemona, Nanuk, Mendiguren and Zarraoa, Feuvert, the ITVs of Gipuzkoa, Etra Norte, TNB Arraitz, Mercabilbao, Clece, Arkema, Cleanses of Getxo, teleassistance, Transvisa, Cepsa and ECN Cable Group, among others. This is the result of the demand made by companies and trade unions to our department, in its capacity as labour authority, to mediate in different situations, both in terms of advice and mediation. Some trade union strategies are not exactly good for Basque workers, Mr Itxaso, of course not. And this interpellation that is being made here, in part receives it and answers it this department and this counselor, but it is true that this interpellation must be made to all the social actors and some of them more particularly. This government, Mr Itxaso, does not carry out a funeral march in relation to these matters. I do not think that this Councilor and this Government are going to disagree on these matters. I agree that we have to move forward, but we can move forward with those who want to move forward, and of course we have to make an effort to move forward when they want to move forward, and those who do not want to move forward to leave them where they want to stay. If the Social Dialogue Bureau has not made any further progress since the last meeting, it is not because this Government has not made its efforts, but because the social actors in the relevant commissions end up not meeting, delaying meetings or, fundamentally, disagreeing. And finally, Mr Itxaso, it is not a question of putting funding in relation to these matters, but of putting together and uniting wills so that we can achieve greater conditions of dialogue, negotiation and agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u64	Thank you, Mr. Toña. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u65	You are right, counselor, that indeed the intensity of my words is directed mainly at these power stations. What's going on, counselor, is that this is the stage we have. It is not from now, but it is coming from time ago denouncing the fact that collective bargaining in Euskadi is as you have said, I also have no inconvenience in accepting the figures it gives, because they are consistent with the ones I manage, but whatever the source, as I say the data are quite eloquent. And it showed him the fact that, while it is true that this is an autonomous strategy within what is a way of understanding his trade union freedom, but which brings an entire society, a whole group of workers to a situation, we believe that the Government has to put more emphasis and it has to focus on denouncing this state of affairs. And he set as an example the fact that the Social Dialogue Bureau was not called until the equator of the legislature passed because there is a reverential fear, there is a subordination at least tacitly, to what these strategies are putting forward. And the government can't just lament this state of affairs and offer as the only answer that "well, that's right, you talk to the unions, we can't do anything else." We, the Socialists, Mr Councillor, believe that the Government also has an obligation to say loud and clear that the majority trade union strategies do not go much less in the direction of promoting collective bargaining. Because then the messages are really confusing; on the one hand it is said that collective bargaining is favored; on the other hand it was said that no, that the future went through the negotiation of agreements per company, just coinciding with what the labor reform poses. Well, let's say that the most important elements of labour reform coincide with the strategy of these majority power stations in order to hedge collective bargaining and to boost enterprise bargaining. That, as I say, I have examples to show that from the purely wage point of view those company agreements that are sponsored here are worse than those that the Agreement for Employment and Collective Bargaining raises as wage increases. And it's already terrible not that you can have your own union strategy, but with that union strategy you're harming yourself clearly, clearly, because these data speak for themselves, and really about this state of affairs there's a thick veil of silence or, at least, the complaints have a smaller tone. And given the seriousness of the facts, we believe that these complaints have to have a greater tone and call for things by their name, because it does not cease to be an aberration that can increase their central trade union representativeness that are not much less in favour of the interests of the workers. And you'll tell me, "Well, but tell them that." No, to the unions we are not going to say anything, because they do the liberal exercise of how they interpret trade union freedom, but the consequences are what they are. And we ask the Government to somehow combat this state of affairs with much more solemn declarations, much more serious and actions, which could even go so far as to urge employers' associations, since the labor reform has given them so much unilateral power, so that, since there is no possibility of negotiating collective agreements in these terms, after all said, at least if the employer, with the exception of the alavesa, has this sensitivity, which unilaterally tries to incorporate into the working conditions what it says to sign, at least formally or theoretically, with the agreements reached in Madrid. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u66	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u67	Mr. Itxaso, you're right. I will not deny you the difficulties we have. Having said that you are right at the bottom of what you propose, I have to tell you, you tell me where we can put more emphasis. Does this adviser have to say more clearly and louder that the strategy of some central rather than others is making it difficult to conclude agreements that reach a wide range of workers? Well, I take note, but I assure you that this government has neither fear nor trembling, and less reverential, to call things by name. This government talks with the four trade union centres, but with some more than others, and not at the will of the government, because it is the will of the social partners to graduate their relationship with us. And for me it's sad to say, but it is. I'm gonna change you a little third. Because we cannot always think that everything is reduced to collective bargaining. We are well advanced in the twenty-first century, in a new world, and in addition to the issues of mediation and social dialogue, we want to shape innovative proposals for the future of the twenty-first century. We are working on debates and opinion groups concerning also new business models, employee participation, and promotion of new organizational cultures. Many union entrepreneurs agree on the desirability of moving also towards overcoming old models, based on seeking synthesis of virtualities, not forgetting the reality, but people-centred models, which take into account the dignity of all those involved in the business project, of all workers, also of shareholders. That it seeks to promote quality employment, that it seeks shared management, a greater distribution of wealth in society, in order to contribute to more democratic societies, not only among citizens, but also among workers within the company, more stable and less conflictive. Advanced models, which enhance and take advantage of the knowledge, skills and abilities of the people involved, including also affective, creative, innovative, relational skills. I think we can say that we can develop our own Basque business model, because we take into account in its design and its functioning the strengths and weaknesses of our own culture, and therefore of the people we are intervening in it. Take into account the concrete experiences existing in the world, which may be promoted by public institutions in the Basque Country, within their competence. Experience has shown us that to promote participation, it needs to be supported by legislation, as is the case in other countries. In addition, it is necessary to create favourable conditions for the Basque public institutions, social partners and trade unions, in order to promote new socio-productive models, which not only give priority to sustained growth, but mainly to social, economic and environmental sustainability and collective interest. And all this also without obviating that the opposition of interest between employers and workers is an inherent element of our system. Recognised and protected opposition, but which must also be addressed in the context of dialogue and negotiation, which make it possible to overcome such confrontation and opposition. We will try to add to this debate the various forums in which work relations, collective bargaining and social dialogue are being discussed. In contrast, Mr Itxaso, to what you say in your justification, this government does believe in dialogue, consultation and mediation, and I also think it knows that. We will continue to work to advance the agreements, to be able to promote the creation of quality jobs, to lead the intermediation. We will do whatever efforts are in our hands. It will not be this Government that turns its back on any request for dialogue. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u68	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The eleventh point of the theme list: "The question is, that Arri Zulaika Portillo, the law student of the Society, made to the head physician of the Police, the decision of Osalan's preparations for preventive prosecutions." Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u69	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning to the chief physician. Araba, Biscay, and Gipuzian Preventions' preparation for the Prevention of the Preventions of 1997's Health and Work Dangers regulates the agreement between the unions and the Confeks. According to this arrangement, the company leaves the management of the preparation which must necessarily be devoted to the Prebence Directors at Osalan. This preparation is divided into two sections: a part theoretical, which is universal to all workers, regulators, who teach what the unions teach; and another part of it is technical, or a preparation to be adapted according to the characteristics of each job, which is given by Osalan's agricultural or homologized scholars. It was published on May 15th to give the basic preparation of preventives and subentations for the event of 2015. 14 days later, but Osalan informed the members of the commission of Osalan that the preparation of preventive committees had been broken, and he argued that he was not in doubt whether or not he was marching against the Decreeful King 4/2015 Law. The prevention in the work-making department is the best instrument to avoid the industry and labor suits. Hence the consequences which Osalan may have brought in his decisions may be extremely serious for the health of the workmen, in general for the life of the workers. For this reason, we ask the Chief of Police and Empedics, Angelo Toña, the following question: Are you planning to get the training ready for the prebuctive directors on the way right away?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u71	The President of the legislature, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Mrs. Zulaika, in your explanation, you say something else which is not a real thing and not a whole truth. It is true that the consent of the royal decree of employment for this year makes great doubt in regard to the legislation of the health and the legality of the petitioners whom Osalan prepares every year for the safety of his health. As you all know, the continual call of the improvements in the terms determined by that monarch's decree, is confined to the participation of the unions and the patricians. The average truth is that preventive training has been suspended in workplaces. And this call has two parts. One on legislation, which, by interprofessional agreement of 1997, belongs to the social partners. But this call has another one relating to technical training, the content of which is provided by other bodies specialized in the field. At the moment the latter is not affected, only the first. As we'll say later, let's not expect the first one to be. We are currently waiting for a legal report to resolve this situation satisfactorily. From the department I run, we are making every effort to ensure that this is done in favour of the social partners and for this Government. It is our intention not to contradict the interprofessional agreement of 1997, but the adoption of Royal Decree 4/2015 is not a matter for the Basque Government, but it is a regulation that is given to us from Madrid, to which we have certainly tabled amendments to safeguard our entire area of competence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u72	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u73	Thank you. As the four trade unions who assembled for the Prevention of Health and Labic Security, we believe it is unacceptable to interrupt the training of prevention, because it is impossible to extend without training to the prevention culture among the workers. Without training, there is no prevention, and without prevention the number of labor stripers will increase. This is very serious, for preventiveness is the most effective instrument in preventing industry and labor suits. We need to remember that 21 workers have died this year because of the labor strip. Not only do Osalalans accuse the decision he had made to stop training, but we also want to accuse them of the ways he had. On one side, it's a one-sided decision. On the other hand, ELAG and LAB, both the unions which represent the unions that represent the majority, and also the two unions which offer the prevention as members of the Osalan, were not decided by e-mail. And lastly, that the reason why this preparation should be terminated may be opposed to the royal decree, which is altered by the professional education, if it be reason, which still more astonishes us. Once again, because it's a role model in Rajoy's government, here in this town, leaving the unions and Confebask peace, without protecting our model. I want to take advantage of this shift for the demands of the unions, and to get EH collected into the head physician of the National Society and Society: Let the training students who have interrupted you set off at once and take advantage of the medical and National Prevention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u75	Mrs. Zulaika, Osalan's organization is work insurance and an institution to promote security. That's why he's the first interested in reconnaisssing his call with the Enplegu and the Police Department of Society. Anyway, we can make sure that the prevention authorities will have their preparations at work centres, and if social agents can't be completed, they'll be able to do other organizations that are undoubtedly competent. All these issues are discussed and discussed in the Osalan training committee. Both ELA and LAB, which you mention in your justification, Mrs Zulaika, have not come to this committee or to any council since 2010. A meeting of the training committee is scheduled for 17 June, where the issue will be discussed, so if these agents have contributions to make, they will be welcome and better informed. And I can tell you that personally and on behalf of the Government it has hurt us, it has hurt me, its form, without forms, of reacting through a very harsh press release, in which they say, among other things, that our forms are inadmissible; that it says that the Government once again bends itself to the state model; that it says that the Government, which claims so much to defend social dialogue, loads the interprofessional agreement; and that it says that we wonder whether the interests that other organizations may have behind this decision prevail; and that it also publicly engages this adviser in a meeting with them. We'll take you back, Mrs. Zulaika. But good will be that we take care of funds and forms of communication and dialogue, so that we can make possible among all an understanding that is more fruitful and better for all workers and workers, and more for those who may be at risk of accidents at work. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u76	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, that the members of the U.S. Saraz Eusia Sociialists of the United States have been made to the head physician of Eplegus and of the Polic Society, concerning Article 57.5 of the Basque Act of Kooperatib." Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u77	Egun on. Counselor, I will not deny that the subordinated financial contributions emanate from a Basque law, the Cooperatives Act of 1993, amended in 2000 for this purpose, which in its article 57.5 says: "Subordinate financing shall be considered those received by cooperatives which, for the purpose of priority of credits, are located behind all common creditors. Its expiry will not take place until the settlement of the cooperative has been approved." Therefore, the issuance of Fagor's subordinated financial contributions was due upon approval of the settlement of the cooperative. In June 2014, the holder of the San Sebastián Commercial Court No. 1 approved the final liquidation plan for Fagor Electrodomésticos and Edesa. On 22 October, he was awarded a prize for his quick and effective work in the decision of the Fagor creditors' competition, which was attended by the lehendakari. This fact contrasts with the fact that, to this day, there is still no definition of the amortization of the subordinate financial contributions that the law fixes and links with the liquidation of the cooperative itself, with which no decision has been made on this matter, and we are talking about 185 million euros and 10,000 people more or less affected. In addition, in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, out-of-court rules have been adopted, at the request of the Tax Coordination Authority, to compensate for losses arising from Fagor's subordinate financial contributions to the IRPF. But logically, to carry out this drawdown, it is necessary that the titles are amortized and today they are not. That is why I ask you what assessment the Basque Government makes of the situation of the people affected by Fagor's subordinate financial contributions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u78	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u79	The President of the legislature, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. In answer to your question, we really feel the symmetry of people who are suffering this situation. As you have indicated, the law fixes and binds the amortization of the financial contributions subordinate to the liquidation of the cooperative itself, which has not yet been definitively resolved, despite the fact that it is advanced, so it is not possible to know the value of these contributions so that the tax proposal of the Tax Coordination Authority can come into operation. In the explanatory statement, Mrs Sarasua mentions compliance with article 57.5 of Law 4/93 on Cooperatives of Euskadi. We would like to clarify again in this House a key differentiation in this matter. This rule, this law, is the corporate regulation of subordinate financing as part of the economic regime of the Basque cooperative society, in particular the composition of social capital and its financing, but it says nothing about marketing. It is produced as a financial product and remains under the supervision of the National Securities Market Commission. It is therefore a problem of consumption of financial products, not of their regulation, and in particular of the sufficiency of information to conform to the will of the purchaser of those products and, therefore, of the regularity of the legal business agreed between the two.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u80	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u81	Counselor, you still do not answer the question that 10,000 people are asked every day affected by Fagor's subordinate financial contributions, who have lost all their money, who continue to pay custody expenses for securities with a value of 0, and who have been suspended for more than two years, and who cannot deduct their losses via IRPF because the securities are not amortized. From the Basque Government and through the Health and Consumers Council and from the Kontsumobide management, they continually claim that they have been working on this matter for months and that the Tax Coordination Authority has promoted tax relief for the persons holding these contributions and that they have also been working with the banking entities to ensure that they are not covered by the costs of custody. In short, you ensure that measures have been put in place to protect the interests of the people concerned and in any case not to dampen the impact of the problem. But you do not talk about the results of the measures, Mr Councillor, because the reality is that you have not provided real solutions, because your measures are theoretical, not practical at all, because in this matter it has not been you, the people's government, of people who are trapped in a Basque law that has given rise to this situation and which leaves in the hands of the Fagor competition administration your unfortunate situation, yes, Mr Councillor. That is why our parliamentary group demands that the Government give a dignified solution to the people affected by Fagor's subordinate financial contributions, so that, at least, since all their money has been lost, they do not have to continue to pay custody costs and can deduct a portion through the IRPF. And it's only possible through the amortization of the titles. You attend the awards and recognize the work of the competition manager, but you should attend the drama that more than 10,000 people suffer from this situation. Counselor, you have been a member of a competition administration, and I ask you: do you think it takes three more years, until 2018, to shut down Fagor's creditors' tender, to amortize securities that are worthless and for which there is no euro left to distribute?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u82	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u83	I have been a member of many competition administrations, I think more unfortunately, and I know what they last, they last a long time. The department I run is beginning the administrative process of a new law on cooperatives, as all members of this House already know. Research work on cooperative law has been carried out by the cooperative law institutes of the three universities of the Basque Country, in order to inspire the articulated text that has been presented and is being presented. The draft was already presented and discussed at the plenary session of the Euskadi High Council of Cooperatives last month. A reminder has been introduced in this draft you know, and it has remembered that there is information necessarily to be given to customers in front of the refined produce, clear, clear, and intelligible. In this draft you already know, a reminder has been introduced that there is an obligation to provide sufficient, clear and comprehensible information to consumers of investments in relatively complex or complex financial products, depending on the understanding capacity each customer has. In the case of subordinate financial contributions, it is recalled that for their subscription the requirements in force at each time must be met to ensure that sufficient, clear and comprehensible information is available. Obligation to inform consumers that they must observe those entities providing investment services in order to comply with the requirements of transparency and information accuracy to consumers who wish to acquire such financial instruments. Yesterday, a judgement of the Bizkaia Provincial Court was published, annulling a precedent for the number one commercial court in Bilbao. Apart from procedural arguments, by which the Court comes to annul the judgment of first instance, in the merits of the case if it is to say that in these cases individual claims cannot be accumulated to be judged as collective in the commercial court as a whole, but must be taken into account the individual particularity of each applicant and therefore be heard in the courts of instance. It is likely that the matter will finally be seen in the Supreme, but understand that this is an issue that escapes this government, which I understand does what it must do: legislate and protect consumers. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u84	Thank you, Mr. Toña. fourteen points in theme list: "Internation, the parliamentary members of the Basque Barrius Barroja Group, made to the Chief of Education, Language Politics, and Cultural Society, about the eulogies of Donostia 2016 European Cultural Capital." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u85	Thank you very much, President. Good morning again. Madam Councilwoman, I have called for an inquiry into the 2016 European cultural capital in terms of keys, a new political landscape in San Sebastián. And also remember the commitments and statements of the Basque Parliament regarding this issue, in line with that no-law proposal of 27 February 2014; we must speak and you must inform us in the part that corresponds to you as part of the administration participating in the event. It seems that the panorama for San Sebastián 2016 is clear, it seems that some clouds are clear. There are six months left for Donostia-San Sebastián to develop its cultural capital program with cultural events and events. And we must remember the complicated situation that the institutions of Gipuzcoana have had with the organization, planning of the event, so that from the first institution of the country, this Parliament, we must follow up on the situation of the draft of its programme. And that is why we demand information from the Basque Government regarding the cultural program, events, events, how you see it or how you manage it to the extent that you are a part of that complex organization currently designed. We have to remember that the Basque Parliament has already talked about this quite a bit. There have been questions, there have been interpellations, there have been statements by this Parliament. Just over a year ago, on 27 February 2014, a non-legislative proposal was adopted that Parliament expressed its full support for the project, that is, from here we were connecting to that project for a successful journey. It was also said that Parliament urged the Basque Government to make visible its commitment to the European capital of the culture Donostia-San Sebastián 2016, defending in the appropriate institutional, economic and cultural forums this strategic project for the city, territory and country. It was also stated in this initiative that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to promote the Donostia-San Sebastián Foundation 2016, the implementation of the recommendations of the Follow-up and Advisory Committee for European Capital, to which I will refer later. Also to stick to the spirit of the initial project, concretely in certain actions. The Basque Parliament also urged the Basque Government, as a member of the Patronage and in accordance with the recommendations made from Brussels, to ensure that the tasks entrusted to the technical team to obtain sponsorship and economic support from companies and sectors of the private initiative to this considered event of exceptional interest already known. The Basque Parliament was also calling for the Donostia-San Sebastián Foundation's technical team to be able to carry out its work without any political interference, in accordance with the recommendations of the European Commission for its successful development. We all know that that has been very difficult with Bildu through. And finally, the Basque Parliament called for the adviser to appear in order to report on the development and progress of the initiative, at least once at each session. Well, at this session this may be the opportunity for you to inform us of that situation. Parliament's pronouncements have been more previously, ratifying the priority and strategic nature of the project, talking about what the bosses had to be and the proper development of the project and good, and we have to remember what is important. All this takes place at a four-legged table: the Diputación, the City Council, the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. Right now, three of those legs are dominated by a political force, the Basque Nationalist Party, and there's the force you have to pass on to us. Today, as a councillor, just as much as a party or a government, because I believe that these are the keys to the course decided in six months' time. You have in your hand a very important part of what must be done from now on in relation to this important project of European cultural capital. We all know, because we have already heard it, and we have heard it very recently in the Congress of Deputies, that the Government of Spain is at an unbeatable disposal. The ministry has shown this, last Tuesday in Congress the Secretary of State for Culture José María Lassalle also said it, as a commitment of truth, truth and inexcusable. There are uncertainties in relation to the project, there are uncertainties that are there, those of private sponsorship, there are uncertainties in relation to who will be linked from private companies, from private sponsorship, which in addition, we all know, there are measures to encourage it. Well, let it get out of hand and know a little bit from here how that situation is. Because logically in recent reports it is one of the weaknesses of the organization. And I say again that there are six months left for San Sebastián to be Europe's cultural capital, and in that sense it is important to leave it tied up now, with sufficient time. And then, with reference to the March report of the Supervisory and Advisory Committee on European Capital of Culture, there is concern about some issues. The election result was overshadowed in the preparation of that report. That's it, you know, we know how it's going to work, it doesn't have to be a worry anymore. But also in relation to the programme of cultural capital Donostia-San Sebastián 2016, the report of the advisory committee valued the content and themes of the programme, it remains pending that a large number of projects are still in the definition phase, 75%, compared to the production phase. The Committee recommends that projects should be adapted and ready for now, it was talking about June, and 75 % was actually pending. The committee was told that there was a general impression that the team should be more confident in completing projects and speeding up the signing of contracts. That was a recommendation. And today we really want to know, we are interested in this that is important for the Basque Country, not only for San Sebastián and Gipuzkoa, for the Basque Country and for Spain, because it is the representation that is the case of Spain that will display Donostia-San Sebastián in Europe with this cultural capitality 2016. And so, in that sense and on these information keys, I also believe that in a good framework of action, with little time, but with solid keys, we understand that, clear of the uncertainties and clear of all possible management defects that we have been detecting and that they have been detected, in that sense what purpose your department has in relation to the involvement of the Basque Government in the definitive organization and elaboration of the program of cultural capitality 2016 for the next six months. It is something important and we look forward to your response, Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u86	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u87	Mr. President, Congressman, good morning again. Mr. Barrio, as you know, to be the capital of Europe in 2016, the course we have hitherto made has not been easy. During the past few years, we've been replaced by four organizations and three aspects, which has for many years been very complicated. In several respects the differences and disagreements between one and the other have arisen, and we have not always been able to guess beyond these differences. This is always the difficulty, but this difficulty may be effected for good, if we can overcome the differences between ourselves, if we negotiate the differences between them. That's not how it happened. We think the leadership and the intervention got confused or confused. Certain ideological attitudes have been pushed forward to give a certain color to the plan. There has been no ability to manage the complexity of the plan, and thus, in difficult times, the principle of authority has appeared above the negotiation. They haven't done a lot of art, because of the ideological locks. But, you know, I've always had to keep her position, the engagement she took for this strategic project has been firm since the beginning. That's why he's been a member of the Donostia 2016 Foundation for all he's responsibility and determination. Now, with the recent impulse of the new management to the project, and with the new panorama which the final elections will leave us, we are going directly to European capital. We have reason to face the last stage before European cultural capital with optimism and great motivation. As I was saying, we have experienced complicated times, when we have been forced to smooth out roughness, to overcome differences, and conflict situations that have led even to judicial remedies through. However, I can now proudly say that the effort has been worth it. We are in the final line and we have finally managed to steer the project and move in the right direction. This has had a very positive impact on the extraordinary work done by the entire technical team behind this great project. It should be recalled that it is the technical team responsible for the development and management of the project, while the employers must support and respect their work, ensure the necessary funding, and monitor that the proposed developments and programmes respect the essential aspects of the project, such as coexistence, social creativity and cultural and linguistic diversity as a factor of social enrichment. The Basque Government has stood firm in its position, and has respected and will scrupulously respect the warnings and recommendations of the Commission for the Control of Advisory of European Capitals of Culture in this regard. Moreover, this Government, as a member of the Patronage, will, as it has done so far in spite of the circumstances, do all in its power to bring forward, together with the rest of the institutions concerned, this cultural and social project, which must help to unite society. And we hope that the other institutions will also do so. I am referring in particular to the Spanish Government, whose economic commitment has not been entirely clear to date and which has been negatively surprised in Brussels and have made this clear. The statements of José María Lassalle, Secretary of State for Culture, in his recent parliamentary appearance lead us to trust that this change of attitude will occur soon. The European Capital of Culture 2016 is a great opportunity to bet on culture and dialogue as ways to build a better coexistence in which mutual understanding prevails. That is why, now more than ever, we need to add, move forward and reach a broad consensus in favour of this project. An even clearer and more determined involvement by the institutions, social and political actors and citizens in general in favour of the European capital Donostia 2016. I believe that this is the most appropriate time for this, because I am convinced that the new landscape that appears to be presented after the out-of-town and municipal elections will be able to foster a climate of institutional understanding that benefits the project of European cultural capital Donostia-San Sebastián 2016 and the benefit of all citizens. Frankly, I am pleased to hear, in the words of Mr Lassalle, that the State is ready to face this new stage with institutional seriousness, momentum and illusion that this important project deserves. And I sincerely hope that this momentum will be glimpsed not only in the stage of Congress, but also in the Patronage itself. There are certainly changes following the elections on 24 May, changes which I hope will soon, when the municipalities are set up, allow for the revision and renewal of those issues which during these years of life of the project of cultural capitality have aroused greater controversy and controversy. I am convinced that this new institutional landscape, the know-how demonstrated by the leadership and technical team of the project and with the necessary institutional understanding, European cultural capital will be successfully carried out. Attempts at political interference must be reversed, transparency and dialogue strengthened, the implementation of projects must be carried out within the time limits envisaged and serious efforts must be made, at last, without reticence and without ideological obstacles, to attract private funding. The lack of private support for the financing of cultural capital can only be understood from the reluctance of previous political managers to establish normalized relations with the enterprise and private capital. That must be over. With the real leadership of the City Council and the firm collaboration of the rest of the institutions, we have to open doors and establish bridges. The other major challenge has to do with the socialization of the project, and I am aware that very important steps are being taken in this area. After some difficult moments in which citizens had begun to lose their illusion, management has been able to react and revive the numb feelings, which in their day managed to create a great wave of citizen energy. That wave was precisely the courage of the European Capital of Culture Selection Committee to select this project. By means of socialization and communication, we can little by little see that the citizens are recovering their illusion and that they have begun to imply again. The popular illusion and the implication are indispensable as the leading parts of the project are the citizens. In fact, Donostia 2016 Europe's motto of Cultur Capital energy, for living, is culture, that's what it is. Unlike the editions organized in other important cities of Europe, our project does not want to make the tourist development of the city, but it is also the example of living and of the cult. So that our project goes beyond the completion of a program of concerts, exhibitions, and artistic expressions, because it has a very different purpose. As they are creating and developing a project, the union of citizens and collectives, in order to obtain a more united society and a new organization of life, by the active leader of the people. And we organizations, who are a very important part of the project, must be exemplary in this, showing us the ability to live together and agree. As I said before, I'm sure we'll be able to do it, and we'll adapt our project to the work, the effort, and the illusion of all. To rekindle the citizen's illusion, it's important that they themselves know and penetrate, in order to be able to share them. In the end, Donostia 2016 Europe advanced the progress of the program of the capital Cultural Capital, and at the present day the citizens have received it as a book or a website of Donostia 2016. Mr. Barrio, the project has taken the right course. It is time to row together in favour of European capital Donostia 2016, through the collaboration of institutions, social, economic and political actors.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u89	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor. As you said, there have been complicated moments. We can say that with Bildu at the head of the management of cultural capital Donostia-San Sebastian 2016, worse impossible. That's what we've seen and of course that's what needs to be fixed. Indeed, you have spoken of optimism. I think it's a proper word, but it seems that we still have to work hard. We have identified some concerns, private funding, with regard to attracting sponsors or completing what the supervisory committee's report referred to as 75% of the projects still unfulfilled. You have talked about the technical team, which is your job, but you as employers have to ensure the success of the technicians' work. That is why it is particularly important that you say it or value it in relation to that issue and that we worry about those implications. With regard to what you have said about some other issues, we can agree. I was reading a headline recently in a newspaper here: "San Sebastian 2016, cultural capital on the verge of rescue", a term that is unfortunately fashionable in recent times, but let's hope that that optimism that you have spoken of goes in the right direction. In relation to the position of the Government of Spain to which you have referred, I have to refer to the last intervention of the Government, where the Government of Spain has shown, and I believe that this is also a good key to the joint work with the institutions of Gipuzcoana and the Basque Government, because it has shown the "absolute compromise" with the event, were words of the other day of the Secretary of State, José María Lasalle. The Ministry is seriously committed to a project that the Secretary of State said "has faced worrying problems regarding the lack of professionalism of the previous team, the lack of transparency, the lack of institutional loyalty, the lack of dialogue". That is, those were the previous keys that moved the "leadership of the organization of cultural capitality, and now they are others, let's hope they are others. It was only at that time that the ministry or the employers were required to speak exclusively of money, for nothing else. Those are the issues that have had to change. And there it is, regarding the economic involvement already said, it has been reported, 1.4 million from the Government of Spain in 2014, 1.5 million in 2015, with a total disbursement of 4.5 million, with the possibility to continue to make contributions in relation to the projects that will be presented, in this climate of dialogue, according to negotiation, the public interest that was approved, that is, looking for private sponsorship thanks to tax benefits of 90%, that is, financing based on sponsorship is fundamental, that is, that in this sense there is a good way. And from the central institutions, as we have informed ourselves through the media in the other day's appearance of the Secretary of State for Culture in the Congress of Deputies, the commitment is an absolute commitment. In this sense, what needs to be taken is the helm of the institutions, and clear of Bildu's presence in the Diputation and the City Hall, and above all those handlings, those dysfunctionalities, that chaos, that inability to dialogue, that institutional disloyalty, that non-professionality that we have witnessed, it opens... You have also said, the effort has been worth it in relation to what we now have to do, it is worth it, the keys to dialogue are opened to rapprochement. I believe it is to fulfil commitments, budgetary contributions, projects on which all are committed, and with the possibility of additional amounts based on projects and the seriousness of the projects. Apart from politics, from culture, I believe that is what needs to be sought, an effective management model, a sensible one, a European, international vision, and that is the key. And concretely. You spoke of citizens' illusion, counselor. That illusion must also be stimulated and there must be an important communication effort to realize that cultural programme and to link it to the illusion of citizenship through the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u90	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. My representative, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u91	Mr Barrio, I am sincerely pleased with your strong support for the Donostia 2016 European Capital Project. As I've been telling you, it's time to join forces, of all forces. The truth is that this government has always trusted in the success of Donostia-San Sebastián 2016, and therefore has done and will do everything in its power to take the project forward and to achieve the social and cultural transformation intended through the waves of citizen energy. For this purpose, connection between the contents and the programmes of Donostia 2016, connects and relations between the promoters of culture, neighbors' associations, public corporations, private trades, social institutions, and the centres of thought. And, of course, among the creators and artists of the various worlds. As far as the contents of the program are concerned, Donstia 2016's project is also a renovator. Thus the contents have been arranged in three light-lights: the light of peace, the light of life, and the light of voices. Three lighthouses that, besides being used to organize the program around three fundamental areas, such as peace, life and voices, will also serve to guide citizens towards a new model of coexistence, illuminating the fundamental values for a social transformation, a transformation that must last beyond the time horizon of this project set in 2016. To achieve this social transformation, five areas have been selected, which we call docks, in which such transformation will be intensified: the Bestelab dock, conceived as a laboratory to take advantage of the full potential of the citizenry; the Hirikia dock, to consolidate the integration of new technologies; the Hazitegiak dock, whose objective is mediation between creators and audiences, for the generation of new audiences and the design of more effective cultural policies; the 284+ dock, which promotes the knowledge and development of linguistic diversity in the European context; and finally Pagadi, which provides the critical thinking tool in relation to contemporary artistic activities, to contribute with added value to the projects that constitute the cultural programme. And of course, all this will be done from a European perspective and vision. As you can see, Mr. Barrio, the project is perfectly in line. The times of indefiniteness and discrepancies remained behind. We have a cultural and social programme, whose actions are aimed at achieving a more cohesive, more empathetic and creative society beyond the 2016 horizon. We also have a good technical team and we are confident that the new institutional landscape will foster understanding. As far as sponsorship is concerned, contacts have already been initiated and we hope that we will soon be able to have something more concrete to count. It's been a lot of work for Donostia 2016 to be the capital of European culture. It's been a long and difficult journey, but I'm sure it'll be worth the results and that what you've accomplished on this project will last all the time in Donostian and Basque. All the projects will be developed in 2016, of course, but the relationships and networks created between people have been decided to continue beyond 2017. Even if the timer won't disappear, if the work he's done for years since he's chosen the town of Donostia has been able to strengthen the net of our city and build a more compact network, we can say that our efforts are worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u92	Thank you, chief physician. The 15th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the lawmakers of the Oyrarun de Euskal Group, made to the chief physician of Education, Policy, and Cultural, as to the measures to which LOMCE is to be set." Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. LOMCE was approved in the State Official Gazette on December 9, 2013, and the Royal Decrees of Primary Education, Basic and Secondary Vocational Training, Baccalaureate came out, if I don't have the data wrong, on March 1 and 5, 2014 and also in January 2015. Primary Education was to be launched in this 2014-2015 course for the first, third and fifth primary schools. But you, the Basque Government, have not published the development decree and know perfectly well that in 2015-2016 the second, fourth and sixth primary courses have to be implemented in order to complete the entire stage. Could you tell me when you intend to publish that decree? As regards basic vocational training, which replaces initial vocational qualification programmes, the CPPI had to enter into force for the first time in this course. You have not only not developed the decree, but have invented for the same course so-called transitional training courses, which you know perfectly well that you have been disqualified or negatively informed by the Government. We would also like to know exactly when you intend to draw up the decrees that have to put into effect that Vocational Training. And in relation to high school, it takes three months for the new course to begin practically. City halls still don't know if they're going to be able to give second, because you haven't done your job. And that's why we're waiting for you to tell us now if you're going to communicate what your obligations are, if you're going to draw the decrees in relation to high school and baccalaureate, if you're going to draw the development decrees, we want to know when. He was asked this morning about the diagnostic evaluation tests. We would also like to know exactly whether you are going to comply with the obligation in relation to LOMCE's orders in relation to the tests of evaluation of the planned courses.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u94	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u95	Mrs. President. Mr. Oyre generous, we have insisted that this government is against LOMCE, even here in front of the Ministry. We've made our reasons and our objectives clear from the very beginning. Thus we have used all the resources we have in our power, and will use them to prevent the damages of this law, with the purpose of protecting and improving our education. In that sense, I can only tell you how to answer your question. It's not about what we're going to do or when we're going to establish the law of LOMCE, but what we're doing to protect our education system from the influence of such a backward law. That should be the question if instead of being in Spain the party in Spain would be in favor of the interests of our education system. That would be your question, Mr Oyarzabal, if you really cared about our educational system, instead of worrying about the implementation of a law that in no way benefits this educational community. You should ask for the actions that this department will take to improve the quality of our education system; an education system that all political parties represented in this Parliament agree to praise; an education system that is today worthy of praise thanks to the long and fruitful journey carried out in a shared and consensual manner with the educational community; a much higher education system than that proposed by the LOMCE, since therefore this law has nothing positive to provide; an educational model based on consensus and agreement, something that cannot be said by the LOMCE. That is why this Government will continue to work as agreed with the Euskadi educational community, as it has always done, not to implement LOMCE, as you intend, but to preserve and improve our educational system, both with and without LOMCE.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u97	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, we have heard everything about you in connection with LOMCE. Holders: "Euskadi will use all the legal tools not to apply LOMCE"; "Euskadi renounces the insistence to face the Wert Law", will fulfill it; "Uriarte now assumes that it will apply LOMCE"; fourth, of the four examples I bring you, "the adaptation of LOMCE in Euskadi needs time", delay. Hey, you said one thing and the opposite. You do not come out here to answer me about the decrees, because we are talking about concrete things in relation to applications that you have the duty to develop, applications that have to be put in place, in this course they had to be put in place, and in the next course. We need to know what you intend to do to comply with the development of the law; when we will have the decrees, which you have not told us; what steps you intend to take to ensure that the diagnostic assessments are carried out normally in all educational institutions. You, counselor, have a duty to comply with the law. Then, if you want to disguise it and it doesn't look like it does, we're fine with it. That you want to give pleasure to certain sectors and comply with the law by appearing not to comply with it? Well, that's fine with us. But you're leaving your duties, you're also tangled in educational policy with contradictory statements. And you have an obligation to comply with the law and enforce it. And you also have to set a clear line for educational institutions in our Community to know exactly what they have to do, how they have to apply the law and give clear guidelines also to teachers and families. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u98	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u99	Well, Mr. Oyarzabal, if you don't see that we have a clear line, I don't think you've worn glasses well. A clear line has this government since it launched the Heziberri 2020 plan according to the educational community. A clear line is what the Government, together with the educational community, has been working on for almost two years, in which three projects have been established: in the first we have obtained the educational model; in the second we have prepared the curricula, but in the consensus, and consensus needs time, it needs work, people's participation, participation from all over the world, and that is what we are doing. Man, if we are going on the basis of impositions, as Mr Wert does, of course. That's not looking for the quality of the education system. We are defending the quality of our education system. For that, we have made an approach, a plan, in which we say how we defend, how we improve our system and how we work. And we have been saying it at every moment and always at the hand of the educational community. Please, the plan is clear. Another thing is that you want to rush me, you or the minister, and say, "No, it has to be by this date, because I said so." No sir, let's see, things are going well. You don't have to do things wrong because you say so. Things are doing well, and here we do well. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Comrade Marquis Isabel Celaá Déguez, a member of the Basque Socialists to the chief of the Board of Education, Language Policy, and Cultural Society, concerning the treatment which will be given in the decree of Batxiler, to the badge of the Catholic religion." Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u101	Mila esker, andrea president. Mrs Uriarte, taking advantage of the LOMCE trip once again, this time taking advantage of it because it does not force you, you intend to give, you are preparing it in your decree of application of Baccalaureate to the community, a treatment of favor to religion, a treatment of favor that you had never had in this Community. Taking advantage of LOMCE's trip, because LOMCE doesn't force you to do this. So, you can tell me what reasons lead your department to favor the subject of Catholic religion in the decree of Baccalaureate that you are preparing, to the detriment of other more academic subjects, read philosophy or read others, to the detriment of other subjects that students will need even to make Mr. Wert's revalidation, or, without Mr. Wert's revalidation, to be able to make the specific tests that the faculties will collect in competition with everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u103	Mrs. President. Madame Celacha, objectivity, tolerance, neutrality, and discrimination, are the fundamental principles of our education. I've said more than once that this government makes an opportunity for an education system that isn't a confessional. This system has the criteria above mentioned, which guarantees the liberty of choosing persons, and not dissecting them for reasons of religion. In addition to that, you know that RedMork makes a clever bet for the autonomy of the schools. We respect and encourage the autonomy of the students. So then, in the sketch of the decree which you mention, we enter several lessons, and there will be schools that will choose some or other lessons by their autonomy, and then the students or their families will be the choice of lessons. Therefore, the department has proposed a range of subjects from respect for the maximum autonomy of educational institutions, and it will be these who will organize their offer by selecting from this list of subjects which they create most suitable for their students. The subject of religion, not the subject of Catholic religion, is included in this offer of subjects. What is included in the draft decree is the subject of religion, which treats all religious denominations with which the Spanish State has signed cooperation agreements, i.e. the Catholic, the Evangelical, the Jewish and the Islamic religions. Thus, the Catholic religion receives the same treatment as the other religions, and under no circumstances has it been favored or harmed in the draft decree to which it refers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u105	Madam Counsellor, in this chapter of contradictory statements of which you were previously warned, we have also heard you say that, in fact, you are asking the centers to offer religion in second place, for the sentence you had. I hope you don't argue with me later, I say, because the Supreme's sentence, as you know, partially rejected this, and we talked about something else and another rule. I'm saying this out of warning, lest you tell me later in the replica. You ask, taking advantage of the LOMCE trip, that the centers offer no less than necessarily two hours of religion in first of Baccalaureate and two hours of religion in second of Baccalaureate; yes, you have it in the whole list of subjects or specific subjects. The offer, as you have planned, will be mandatory for the Bachelor's Centers, both in first and in second. And I want to tell you that in the second of Baccalaureate, which is equivalent to the old COU, religion has never existed as a compulsory offer of centers. And that is a strict agreement between the Spanish State and the Holy See. Never has the University Orientation Course, equivalent to the second of the baccalaureate today, had a compulsory offer of the centers of religion, for obvious reasons. Therefore, the first question of favour. You don't have to include in that list in the compulsory offers the second religion of Baccalaureate. First question. Second question. Not only does you do this, ma'am, but it also sets a reference time of four hours, and a minimum of two hours. This requires that if the student chooses, in a way quite inclined to choose religion, he has to look for another two - hour companion. That is, in terms of educational institutions, two maria to complete four hours, which would be the equivalent of the four-hour strongest options. And all this at a time when the student is going to have to face tests, no longer of selectivity, but tests of faculties, competitive tests, in free competition of faculties. Look, you are giving a favor to the religion to which the agreements with the Holy See do not oblige, nor to which the LOMCE obliges you. Because I will tell you only two examples: Castilla and León, a community of the People's Party, not the second offer of Baccalaureate; Asturias offers an hour in first of Baccalaureate, and none in second of Baccalaureate. Because he's got two hours to offer, when we've had a...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u107	Mrs Celaá, it is good to use the information in a partial and interested way. That is to say, what the Government claims in this draft of Bachiller's curriculum decree that it is preparing is that religion can be offered in Bachiller's first or second, not in both, but that it is the autonomy of the center that decides whether it prefers to offer it in the first or prefers to offer it in the second. And it's the minimum time, two hours. I mean, don't tell me we put first and second, because it would have to be religion 1 and religion 2. No, it is religion and it is left to the choice of the center itself, because it has the possibility of choosing, and if it wants to organize its teachings in such a way that it can first have lace, it can do so. But it is in one or another, do not say that we have put more, the subject is given simply from one of these subjects. So, let's not mix, let's not read anymore so that people... No, ma'am, the minimum, and under the autonomy of the centers, who decide what course they want to take. And then, you're the one who advances the revalidations, the tests of the centers, the faculties. Everything's in the air, ma'am, everything's still in the air. He doesn't threaten the wolf's coming, when we don't even know if he's in the shape of a caperucita.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Jul's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors made to the head of the Security Department of Security, a police model needed by the Border." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u109	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Last week, on the 4th of the month, on the way to Toulouse, a truck driver shot him in front of Leuca, in the entrance to the A-15 highway, after a conflict with traffic. First of all, our condolences to the Jesús Madrid family. It's a serious event. At this point, the Fiscal General Juan Calparre remarked that he had to reflect on the police model required by the border. During some courses of security, the Fiscal General took the case as a murder, and pronounced it in words: "We must consider what kind of police we want, what kind of police officers we have created, and what resources are given to the edgers to fulfil their function." This, and other serious events show, EH Collect stands up for the necessity of this reflection. Is the Security Department going to encourage this general reflection on the police model?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u110	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, you have often heard me talk about our new police model in this legislature. You've often used that concept, too, of the new police model, but when we're remodeling on the basis, it's obvious that we don't agree in the criteria. Because the substance of the question that is raised today is part of a premise that I do not share with you. To propose now, following a tragic and exceptional event, as is the case with Leiza, the need for a deep reflection on the police model that we have, however much you propose it or propose it by the superior prosecutor of the Basque Country, means not wanting to see or not accept a reality that already exists, a debate that already exists, since we are already in it. The debate takes time on the table, both in the government programme and in the Department of Security, as well as in the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies, in the Basque Public Security Plan, in this very Parliament and in the Ertzaintza itself in the strategic plan. It is a dynamic, constructive debate, not without difficulties and in which we have been taking very important steps in consolidating a police model of change and improvement for a long time. Change and continuous improvement towards an integral police model, the police that Euskadi needs in the public security framework that we want for our personal well-being and for our collective well-being.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Beltrán de Heedia. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u113	You take this serious incident as an exception, as an excuse, or perhaps an isolated one. Also, the bordering will be, perhaps, a spontaneous violence of human rights made in the past, isolated even from the Tabbacas. Perhaps the disproportionalness of the violence of the country which we are seeing during these days is isolated. The other day, the unions came to the committee and told us there were various dysfunctions that would also be isolated. And it's also spontaneous, for instance, the Civil Guard and National Police, to keep the acrobats in this country, and to trample on certain controls of the Border. Or it may even be isolated that there is no co-ordination with the police, or that there are no secondary police officers. I bring you an objective event. And from these deposits of objective events I see a photograph. And when I see that picture, I think this isn't the police that this town deserves. I do not know what your statistics will say, the surveys you usually handle, but by listing all those facts, all those events, those of the past, those of the present and, as no action is taken, those that will come in the future, as we do not solve this, what we can do is a diagnosis that the thing is not going well, that this is not the police model that this people needs. In the appearance he mentioned in the committee, the unions said that the current police model, the one you defend, which has been improved by the Horizon Plan 2016, did not even guarantee the safety of the agents. I asked them: "Does this mean that they cannot ensure, can they guarantee the safety of citizens?". And the answer was that, in fact, they cannot ensure the safety of citizens. And it's not an opinion, it's something we can see in the fact that pushes that question. You're telling us about an integral police force. I tell you that this requires a debate, an equally comprehensive reflection. In that we will determine EH Bildu and for that we will put the appropriate means and mechanisms. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u114	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u115	I'll tell you again, Mr. Arzuaga. We have taken time to shape the police model that responds to current needs and also to future public security needs in Euskadi. The Ertzaintza now has a new organizational structure, radically different from that which existed two years ago. The training of new promotions responds to the challenges we face today, which must be faced by a modern and future police force. The investigation has a scope it didn't have before. Communication with the citizenry is in a permanent transformation. And some of the security challenges we face are absolutely different. Models, I agree with you, can and should be discussed in depth, but changes are materialized from existing realities, day by day, step by step. Of course we can discuss the police model, but not to start from scratch, as you claim, not to design ex novo the police model that best suits the civil disobedience that suits you or the preventive prohibition of legal manifestations that we needed a while ago. You, Mr Arzuaga, have had the opportunity to know firsthand the objectives of change and transformation set out in the strategic plan of the Ertzaintza Horizonte 2016, and you know that the first thing that pushed this department was the reflection on the new police model within the Ertzaintza itself. And he also knows that the implementation and application of this new model of Ertzaintza are investing many efforts, both material and human. And this is the reality of the mechanisms of participation, debate and contribution that have always been open and will continue to be so. I mean, we have a new police model already, we already have a new police model. And this is the reality, where there is no place for a model of society without police, where there are no police models that seek to adjust to particular interests. As I say, we already have a new police model. We have to continue to consolidate it. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u116	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The 18th point in the subject list: "The question is that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto, a member of the U.S.UPyD team, was addressed to the head of the Security Department, a scrache called against the Civil Guard on the 13th of June 2015." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u117	Thank you very much, President. Madam Councilwoman, you have been asked before by another Member of Parliament. The left abertzale, that is, the auxiliary services of ETA, that is, those who are at the service of that terrorist gang, have called for tomorrow morning an act against the Civil Guard in Oñate. This seems absolutely unacceptable to us, unacceptable. An act of hatred that purports to insult and humiliate the Civil Guard and the families of the included civilian guards, boys and girls. You are right in one thing you have said before, it is not something new, that is, it rains on wet, similar acts have taken place on previous occasions. On this occasion, we want that act to be prevented, which cannot be carried out. You're on time. An unworthy and vehicular act is intended against the Civil Guard, the institution that has fought against ETA most for many years. You've already answered that you don't want to stop it. That act of yours, too, we consider it absolutely unworthy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u118	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Heredian in Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u119	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. I'm not going into your provocation, Mr. Maneiro. As I said earlier, the Ertzaintza at the police station in Deba-Urola on the 14th of May received a communication from a demonstration for the 13th of June – for tomorrow, Saturday – under the slogan "Fan Hemendik". The communication contains, as is mandatory in these cases, the reason for the call, the planned route, the schedule of the celebration, the slogan of the banner and the reference to the slogans they will use. And obviously, following the usual procedures in the Ertzaintza, the communication, all the details of the demonstration, which has been presented by a representative of Fan Hemendik of Oñati, have been analyzed in detail. We can make, as I said, all kinds of considerations first: We can make semantic, political and even aesthetic considerations. But tomorrow, Mr Maneiro, in Oñati, it is not a slave, as you said in the justification of the question, nor are there any grounds for banning it. Firstly, because there is no real attack on the moral integrity of individuals, and secondly, because there is no justification for intimidation or unjustified interference in the privacy of anyone. In his communication, the organizer responsible for the call has not raised anything that could lead to criminal acts or could involve an attack on persons or property. And I remind you, Mr. Maneiro, that the right to peaceful and unarmed assembly is protected by article 21 of the Constitution and is implemented in accordance with the provisions of Organic Law 9/83, which regulates its execution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Beltrán de Heedia. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u121	Counselor, you just need to add that you are going to attend that act. They're all parabens. Does that sound like a defensible act to you? Does that sound like a presentable act to you? Is it not at least worth criticizing him, denouncing him, denouncing that act promoted by the political representatives of ETA, by the auxiliary services ETA? Aren't you going to say anything against that act? By the way, what's the provocation? To defend the victims of terrorism is to provoke? To defend the Civil Guard is to provoke? Can't I even ask this question why the Basque Government does not prevent this humiliating and vile act against the Civil Guard? Can't you even ask this in this Parliament? Where's the provocation? The lehendakari apologized last week to the victims of terrorism for not having treated them as they deserve for years. Covite, which is the main group of victims, has called for this act to be prevented. Will you come later to ask for forgiveness after the years? Will they apologize in a few years' time for allowing these kinds of absolutely unacceptable acts? They're organizing an act to insult the Civil Guard, and all you have to say is there's no good reason to stop it. That cannot be considered freedom of expression. It is an act called to insult, to humiliate, to harass a particular group, their families, children included. Do you know how many civilian guards have been killed in recent decades by ETA? 230. It gives me the feeling that you lack sensitivity. 230 civilian guards killed by ETA for many years, the institution that has fought against ETA most during all this time. Let's go defend her, let's say it's an unacceptable act. You have to stop it. This is what we ask. They apologize, but they're just words. And on top of that, he accuses us of the parliamentarians we ask about the issue of demagogy. It's not demagogic, it's decency, it's just decency. Yours is indignity and pure demagogy. It seems absolutely unacceptable to us. You're on time. Don't come to apologize later. They prevent that act, that insult, that humiliation that the left abertzale intends to organize, the auxiliary services of ETA, against the Civil Guard.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u122	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u123	Mr Maneiro, we could agree, as I said before, that certain things surrounding the call are of dubious taste and political opportunity, which is not the best way either to contribute to the democratic solution of political demands. It is also true that some images, even from the promotional video, encourage a certain political stance and towards more than dubious attitudes in the treatment of people working for public safety. It is also highly critical that minors have been included in the video in support of certain political and ideological positions. But such coincidences of judgment or opinion, however majority they may be, would not justify a preventive ban on tomorrow's act in Oñati. In the light of the communication that has been presented, the person who is responsible for his organization – and I repeat what I have said before – there is no way to reasonably estimate that there are "indications that the summons may constitute an offence and, as such, potentially generating disturbances of public order, with danger to persons or property". And this is literally what the law says, article 10 of Organic Law 9/99, which regulates the right of assembly. Therefore, I insist, I said earlier, the Ertzaintza will also act this time as it has done in other cases of demonstrations or meetings of similar characteristics. That is basically what the Provincial Prosecutor's Office of Gipuzkoa has asked us to do on an exceptional basis: to take the measures we consider appropriate in relation to the events that could take place tomorrow in Oñati, giving account of the outcome to the Prosecutor's Office. Be assured that, as the Ertzaintza has always done, it will do so on this occasion as well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u124	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interpology, Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Collectors to the head of the Medical Department, in order to guarantee the health services in the substitutions." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u125	Good noon, everyone. Today, Mr. Darpón, the conditions and criteria of the job to be respected and not yet filled and respected in the service of duty, especially in the eucalypical services, because it is a source of health service, yes, and indeed a man who has respected and filled and respected the rights of language. I mean, within quality, language criteria are also included. We cannot here make the quality of language on one side and the other. And what we see is, in making substitutions, to represent professional health professionals, the eumancipative health professionals, instead of being eloquent, are represented by one single person, the other by 67/2003 Decree, and the II. Euskara with her back to Plan Plana. The situation referred to is more serious at summer vacation time, and at this moment we are on the summer porch, the summer season knocks on the door, and we can find ourselves again with the same problem. We know this isn't just a summer business or a holiday affair, it's all year long, but this situation gets worse during the summer season. Remember, last year in various villages, where they are sociolingistally eucalyptic, and units of primocy, what happened. There were a lot of problems, eupscalal doctors and euphoric pediatras, because they didn't replace it with euscald doctors and pediats. Our team has questioned you about the problems in previous summer replacements, and we've also received answers. And in several instances, the contractions which are offered in the Ossata have been exposed to this affair. And this is significant, an objective data, the objective data which appears in your answers. A lot of integrated sanitarian organization makes unrelated temporary oppositions to specific jobs, makes for leaps, and consequently makes irregular oppositions, or when they make a contractation, it doesn't take into account the necessity date of the language production. The fact is, as I said before, that the summer of 2015 is on the porch, that a collection of replacements will be hired, and that the health services of several national health centres will be compromised. The quality will be compromised unless the eucalyptic workers are replaced by the eucalyptic workers in making replacements. We're very conscious that the problem we've had for our desktop is a partial part of the eucalypation of a membership. The problem is much more integrated, deeper, and requires other measures. He asks to take a hand in medical studies, requires a long hand in form, and so on, what we've been talking about since the beginning of legislation, our team has made a few proposals, and you're making steps. But now that we've reached this situation, we've seen it necessary to ask the Medical Department. In front of this summer vacation representative, we want to know what plan he's made or what size he's going to take in replacements to guarantee the euca health service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon to all. Mrs. Ubera, you are asking me about guaranteeing eucaural health services in replacements today, to ensure the exact exact standard of planning or taking the medical department in replacements to guarantee the service of eucarate health. I will begin my presentation by acknowledging that occasionally there have been cases of substitutions in which the linguistic profile assigned to the corresponding place has not been respected in some professional category, usually for short periods and most of the time in vacation periods. But you also know that in categories as optional, which you yourself have said, and in specific specialties, primarily pediatrics, at all times of the year there are no professionals who meet the required linguistic profile. And having said that, I agree with and thank you for the assertions you make in the justification of your inquiry and I read textually: "In health centres where the linguistic rights of citizens and staff are respected and a quality health service is offered". You explicitly acknowledge our general respect for linguistic rights and recognition of the quality of the health service. He also says, and I read again textually the justification for his inquiry: "We are aware that this is a partial and small problem." Well, I don't know if I fully agree with you on this, but in your own words you are questioning me for a problem that you consider small and, moreover, in anticipation of the fact, because we haven't yet started most of the summer vacation replacements. As you would say, you are putting the bandage on me before the wound or, if you prefer, practice, in line with our health plan, preventive medicine. I must also express my total disagreement with the justification for the inquiry, which states that the conditions for the posts to be replaced are generally not met or respected in Osakidetza, especially when it comes to services in Basque. I will remind you of some of the issues that I raised this Monday in the Committee on Health, such as the remarkable progress made in recent years, particularly in the course of this parliamentary term, with regard to the increase in verbal relations and the progressive use of bilingual documents in all areas of care. In 2005, only 7.7% of professionals had the profile accredited. Today, 27.5 % of them are able to develop their work in Basque, significantly improving the quality of the assistance we provide to the Basques. Of course we do not comply, we have already recognized it, but it is an objective fact: the number of professionals with an accredited linguistic profile has increased fourfold since 2005 to the present day. This progress supports the Basque Government's interest and commitment to the Basque country as an essential part of the quality of the health service. This progress is the result of the engagement between this and that of the interest of the government and the two of them with respect to the eucalyptus. In fact, to take the cradle as the essential element of the quality of health service. As I have already said, we are not going to deny that there has been some recruitment in places with an expired date of effectiveness, which has been only punctual situations and limited duration in most cases, because it required an immediate response or because there were no professionals with the accredited profile. Osakidetza is carrying out a check on these situations, asking service organizations to justify all the cases that occur. The firm and unequivocal commitment to the Basque language and its use as a working language is embodied in the Second Plan for the Standardization of the Use of the Basque language and its degree of deployment, which has enabled measures to be put in place to try to ensure that no recruitment is carried out in places with a preceptive linguistic profile. As I have already said, on many occasions the Second Plan for the Standardization of the Use of the Euskera constitutes the road map that we have marked, which is nothing other than to guarantee and promote the use in Osakidetza by the citizens and by the workers themselves. We are carrying out analysis of the control of the contracts carried out. The data obtained from the last analysis concluded that of the total recruitments in April for replacements in positions with a lost language profile, the requirement was met, i.e. bilingual staff were recruited in 84 % of recruitments. In most cases of the other 16% completed without an accredited language profile, it was due to recruitments for replacements to be carried out without delay, in order not to neglect the existential service. However, on account of the kind of service which is given by the member, the immediate solutions are frequently needed. Certain preparations cannot be removed from the offer, and at such times we do not employ it in observing the language of the working man's profession. It's crucial services and a short-term contractions. Having analysed the reasons for formalized recruitment to professionals without an accredited profile, it is noted that the majority was motivated by the lack of bilingual professionals on the lists of each organization, the second reason was the need as a requirement for specific knowledge for the performance of the post, while there were specific lists at certain levels and for certain posts. In this regard, there are posts in which, in addition to the qualification, prior expertise on the tasks to be carried out is indispensable. Also sometimes for certain situations in places with mandatory Basque, destinations in rural or remote areas and in summer periods, there have been cases of professionals who refuse to travel by giving up the contract. But answering the question asked about the measures to be taken to ensure the health service, I will tell you, we are going to make improvements in the recruitment processes through an instruction from the Human Resources Directorate, so that at the time of calling the candidates for replacement contracts the requirement of the euskera of each place is always available. Staff who manage hirings outside the regular working hours will be provided, often in shiftwork centres there are contracts that are held at the last hour of the afternoon, weekends and holidays, they will be given precise guidelines and updated lists by category. We are studying mechanisms to ensure that, on a regular basis, the procurement application we make in SAP does not allow the mechanization by the centres of contracts of persons without a linguistic profile accredited in preceptive euskera places and that it is mandatory to transfer the need and its justification to the Directorate of Human Resources. We are accelerating the process of accreditation of the language profile II to the group of pediatricians and family doctors who have the accredited language profile I and a specific euskaldunization module has begun in January this year. In addition, we will transfer the rules of substitution contracts and guidelines to service organisations, so that they will also ensure knowledge of the euskera in any contracts in the same percentages as the objectives set for priority units, as envisaged in the Euskera Plan. In the next update of the recruitment agreement, it will be proposed to access the recruitment lists of other service organisations when there are no available candidates with an accredited language profile on their own lists to cover replacements in places with a expired preceptivity date. This update will be subject to negotiation, as we have also submitted the Second Euskera Plan in Osakidetza, to the sectoral table. However, we hope to minimize the problem you are questioning me for today and I share with you. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u128	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u129	I thought you wouldn't have foreseen this, but I'm glad you've placed all the precautions you've put on the table, and even when it's done, you've got to admit that things have to go on that way and at least that we're going to take steps. We'd like to ask a question, and at the second round we'd like to know when this statement comes to the integrated sanitarian institutions, which is important, because the contractations are directed from it, and everyone seems to us essential to be clear. And there we would ask you to behave firmly in order not to make any more irregular resistance. For, as you have mentioned, it is not only in some or some categories, but we have seen that there are many in our answers, and in more than an irregular opposition, and a category, that is, it has not been an exception, it has not been a distraction. We should, therefore, demand that the measures which you have mentioned should be taken with regard to indulgence, and that it should be carried forward with genuine firmness. As for quality, we've seen, this health department, and this fun, it's changed and it's already done, and he admits that the right of language is in quality, and there's no decent health service that doesn't respect the rights of language. You have mentioned that you are glad that we have confessed it. Unfortunately, it's still in some health services and rarely, it's not generalized. So wherever that's filled, it's important that you're also guaranteed on summer vacation, and we should at least try to respect it. And then generalization of it, expanding it to all the other sanitary institutions and all the health services. You mention it, and I'd like to ask you not to work or not handle my words. When I said it was a partial or a minor problem, I was talking about vacations because we've got replacement problem all year. Now we've settled in the summer season, because most of the replacements and the high percentages are on holiday, even during the whole year, but the problem really is serious. So it seems to us that it is essential, and what we were asking for was minimum, to guarantee that those who are euscal services even during their holiday time are eucalyptic and conventional services. Profesional eumancipators are responsible for professional euphoria, and that is a privilege. And here, of course, we must proceed with suppleness, and to this end we must direct the most suitable criteria, that the rights and choice of workers may be guaranteed, but especially to guarantee the health service of quality. And in this sense, we think it's important to meet with planning and problem depth. And in this sense it seems still to me that, though some steps have been taken, we have a great deal to do, and in this sense we would like to ask the Medical Department to refer to the depth and seriousness which really demand these measures. You have mentioned the measures mentioned that will be placed at negotiation level. It's important also to agree with the social part. We know that on the table of 20th April a document was placed on the table, whether or not it was not agreed, the Administration said that it would be accepted on April 22 but that it was not accepted. It seems to us, of course, that our priority must be to agree with the social part, and to compare things in a shared and agreed manner in common; but there are certain principles, which ought to be followed by certain rights, and we think that the right of language cannot be shaken. That is, rights cannot be shaken and that must be above all things.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u131	Mrs Ubera, you know perfectly well that we share the goal. We would like to have Osakidetza's euskaldunization more advanced than it is. The size, the Insalud heritage, the number of professionals over the age of 45 and the compartmentalization we have of specialties, centers and various circumstances make it not an easy task. Now, you know perfectly well how this legislature was a compromise, from the very moment we presented our objectives to the Committee on Health and Consumer Affairs. Before the end of the first year of the legislature we approved the II Plan of Normalization of the Use of the Euskera, we took it as one of the first tasks. And various aspects of the Plan for the Standardization of the Use of Euskera, such as temporary recruitment and eventual recruitment, are not that they did not go to the sectoral table on April 22, they have been at the sectoral table from the beginning. And as you also know, not all unions have the same position and in the current circumstances of dissent between the table and Osakidetza, this often also affects aspects where we should agree. We have stated as active and passive that, regardless of whether we are not being able to renew Osakidetza's comprehensive working conditions agreement, there are certain aspects, such as mobility, the Euskaldunisation Plan, recruitment for certain aspects in temporary employment, which are different from the rules we had since then, could be susceptible to partial agreements. We didn't even need a majority at the table, but we were willing to make partial agreements with any of the unions we wanted, and it wasn't possible. Let's keep trying. Of course, keep in mind that all the actions carried out by Osakidetza will be part of the Second Euskera Standardization Plan. Sometimes we are changing and applying without trade union agreement, but interpreting the normalization agreement itself, and we will continue to ensure the provision of bilingual services and apply the principle of progressiveness and quality improvement in care services, because for us to serve the Basques in Basque is, without any doubt, to improve the quality of care. The instruction I have told you about will be approved before July, with that idea we work. And probably, as you also know, we will, in a very short period, put forward an accreditation of linguistic profiles for Basqueldun sugars that have had difficulties before, which we have also tried to negotiate with part of the sectoral table. We know that it is shared by some unions, because they have transmitted it to us through the media that have published it, and yet we have not been able to have a signature behind the agreement. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u132	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The twentieth point in the theme list: "Interadelation, the members of the Dava Blanco de Angulo EH Collector to the head physician of the Medical Department, about the condition of the sick who have C hepatitis." Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u133	Thank you. Good afternoon, chief physician. As we remarked in our interpelation, a few years ago, the members of the Medical Committee had the opportunity to listen to the description of the delegates of the organization of the sick who have hepatitis. We've heard over and over the opinion of the health department around that platform. The only conclusion that we should draw from Mr. Darpón at the public and in the control meeting would be this: The chief physician does not share in a press conference what the representatives of the platform said, or Mr. Darpón does not share any conception that was used in this press conference. That's clear. We could ask you to go beyond this today. And that means that the meeting today demands more information. One thing has become clear to us: That there is a remarkable difference between the opinions of the sick who have the 'C hepatitis' and your expressions, that we must cultivate them all. And more than differences, we could talk about contradictions. That is why we have considered that in carrying out this inquiry we will be able to clarify all these issues which are of great concern to us today. And not only to the people who are part of this parliamentary group, but, more importantly, to the people who are currently affected by the hepatitis C virus, whoever they are. We could start there, by people who in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa are infected by the hepatitis C virus, because today we do not handle a figure that is not even approximate. On the other side, and in order to penetrate into the subject, we asked you about the meeting between patients' representatives and the Medical Department. You said you met them. But we know that this is not true, because you know better than you, that what is called the co-mitation of the Eucharist C for the social and popular plan of the Hepatitis has been gathered only once, but only once. For us, this committee is the appropriate forum for both the patient group and the Department of Health to interrelate. For a very simple reason, we believe it is the right place to present specific cases of patients, as was done, or to transfer the dysfunctions that can be given between the strategy and what the patients themselves perceive. You promised to meet once a month, and you haven't, you've only met once. And we regret that this relationship has been delayed or delayed and that the agreed deadlines have not been met, because we believe that this is the right place to reach agreements or to raise disagreements. It's the right place to do it, privately and discreetly. It's also a coincidence that it's been three months since that one meeting and just today I'm calling the next one for June 23rd, which is still good news for our group. On the other hand, we are concerned with a doubt that has been brought out to us. Some specialists nowadays play the central institution of Osadoria, which is publicly said not to be true, and although some specialists, according to their medical standards, say that they do not arrive at the direct and direct anti-virtal action of the Cipatitis. And if this be so, it seems to us very serious, and, if it is not true, we must say it plain and clear. Another issue that concerns us and is confusing about new treatments for hepatitis C virus is the budgetary issue. 20 million euros in one year, from June 2014 to today. What we don't know exactly is the amount of money that has been spent since January 1, 2015 until today, we don't know what the amount of money is allocated for new antivirals, how much has been spent and how much money is available for the second half of the year. Because when we get to this point, we start to think that what happens is that we are facing a budgetary problem and that the fairness with which you think hepatitis C patients are going to be treated is subject to a budgetary limit. And everything indicates that he seems to have run out of money, so clear, and that's why he throws balls out and does not bump point by point each of the issues that arise around this issue. And if that's the real problem, we'll repeat what we said on the committee: here is our hand stretched out to deal with this problem. After all, we're in the face of an important problem, and we're going to find a common strategy to overcome this conflict and find the patient's benefit, together with fun, along the same path. But for this purpose we must speak clearly in this matter, otherwise the conflict increases, and the contradictions which are in it will become more and more obvious. For Euskal Herria Bildu the most important issue around hepatitis C is precisely the situation that patients are experiencing. What worries us is the sick and the sick, and what grieves us is that they have to expose themselves publicly to tell their situation. And around that issue, one of the most important aspects seems to us to be the way to prioritize and administer second-generation direct-acting antiviral drugs. In the company of the social and popular committee of the plan of the C Hepatitis, Mr. Zulaika said that during the year of 2015 the patient at F3 and F4 would receive new treatments, and we still miss the clarity. How is it possible that there are medical reports where the specialist ensures that patients are awaiting treatment for new direct-acting antivirals, and Osakidetza responds with a type letter, impersonal communication, denying treatment and referring to having to order access to new treatments to patients for their own good? Do you not think that with that answer what you are getting is to create discomfort among the patients themselves? When you put all this on the table, that is to say, the contradictions around the budget, the lights and contradictions around therapeutic strategy, you will understand the cause and the need for today's intervention. That's why we want to know what you're going to do to get all the patients who need a new anti-organ to take care of them right at once. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u135	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Legebiltzarkideok. White anderea, for the umpteenth time you ask again what the Basque Government intends to treat patients with chronic hepatitis C virus who need new antivirals. And for the umpteenth time I repeat it again. We're giving the right treatment from a clinical point of view for each case. And that's not intentions, that's facts. We're giving a proper treatment of a scientific point of view to the Hepatatitis. What I would ask of you is to offer proper treatment as well as politically as you, without manipulation and without profit. You tell me you're worried about patients. I thank you and share your concern. Sometimes you have doubts about whether patients or multinationals in the pharmaceutical industry are concerned about you, because we are really facing a health problem and a huge business, which with your statements only helps to encourage you. We know, of course, and we fully understand that in the face of a health problem any delay is long for those who expect treatment. Go ahead, because I have said it repeatedly, our respect and our commitment to those who suffer from this or any other disease. But I'm telling you again, we have nothing to hide. This Social Participation Committee, which I am pleased to see, has been appointed by the Councillor, even before the approval of the State strategy by the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality. The data and facts are there and are the clearest proof of what we are doing. Hepatitis C has been known since 1990 and has since had different treatments, some of which are also quite expensive. But, no doubt, it is the recent emergence of new antiviral drugs more effectively, their possible application to a large group of patients who were there accumulated and, of course, also their cost, which has meant a substantial change and today poses a health challenge for Euskadi that we are addressing and that we are not going to leave anyone untreated. And we will also try to preserve the rights of the Basque society as a whole and its taxes to the multinational pharmaceutical industry. Look, you asked me what the dedicated budget is. And we have said it as both active and passive. To the data we gave them in May, we had treated more than 700 patients and invested more than 20 million euros. I have also heard myself as active and passive, when I presented the draft budgets to the Committee on Health and Consumer Affairs, that the budget we estimated was EUR 10 million. And you heard me as active and passive that pharmacy would be an expandable departure and that we weren't going to leave anyone without treatment. So how much budget are you going to see in the second half? High and clear, whatever it takes, Mrs. White. We're not leaving anyone untreated. But obviously we will not treat those people who do not need treatment immediately and are not the most serious cases. Because there is no need to treat, today, all patients affected by hepatitis C, not F4, F3 and F2, which marks the state strategy, but F1 and F0, which are also infected. But you will understand that in a disease that in order to have a medium or severe complication or a significant degree of liver fibrosis needs between 15 and 25 years, obviously the pharmaceutical industry will be desiring us to treat everyone in three months, but it is not necessary, nor is it the objective and, above all, that I have also heard it say, not all digestive specialists in all the hospitals of Osakidetza have the ability to treat a complex and serious disease. Most pathology specialists had not used any second-generation antivirals of these characteristics before 1 April this year in which they were approved, and not before 1 November. Therefore, we are working effectively on the side effects of clinical trials, which, as always, the pharmaceutical industry does in very well-selected samples, to try to demonstrate much more in vitro efficacy than what happens then in reality. Second, as you well know, unlike the strategy of the whole State, where only hepatitis C is being treated in large university hospitals, we, to promote the accessibility of patients, are treating hepatitis C in the University Hospital of Cruces, in the University Hospital of Basurto, in the University Hospital of Donostia, in the University Hospital of Álava and in addition, in the Hospital of San Eloy, in the Hospital of Mendaro, in the Hospital of Bidasoa, in the Hospital of Zumarraga and in the Hospital of Alto Deba. See what interest we have in saving and sparing treatments. Do you know, because I have said this by active and passive, that each patient, during 12 weeks of treatment, has no less than half a dozen consultations. And, look, hepatitis C is an important problem, but in consultations, in addition, there are patients with other pathologies that also deserve to be treated. In addition, before starting treatment, they need a series of diagnostic tests and controls through a special ultrasound called Fibroscan, which also requires their time and which must also be found. And you should know that once the treatment is finished, they continue with frequent consultations, because it happens again that there are patients who have viral load again. So, if you want to understand, you understand, and if you don't want to understand, it won't be in my hand anymore. We are not facing an exclusively economic challenge, we are facing a health challenge, a disease not new, but also very old, the first diagnosis is from the year 1990, Mrs Blanco, with a bag of accumulated patients who had previously had no good solution with Ribavirin, interferon and previous treatments. A series of antivirals appear on the market, which, on the other hand, you have no doubt, will see how new antivirals are approved next year and surely in the second half of this year, of the same effectiveness and probably, by increasing competition, of different cost. We are dealing with it with responsibility, the one I ask of you, if you are so concerned about patients, the one I ask of you, because I am concerned about patients with hepatitis C and others. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u136	Thank you, chief physician. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u137	If it seems to you a lack of responsibility to come and ask you about a subject, as I say, which is very much contradicted between what the patients say and you say, if that seems to you a lack of responsibility, to me what seems to be parliamentary control, and I have to ask you and you will answer. No more. What we think is that you act by that principle of action-reaction. It is curious that when the conflict is mediated, the Government will act immediately thereafter. Looks like you guys have to go out on fire all the time. And for us, no doubt, that responds to a lack of planning or a lack of budget, one of the two things. It is curious that in the May 31 control plenary this group asked you a very specific question about three drugs that you thought you were going to administer from May 12, you do not answer, you are offended by the question denying the largest, and then we know that this medicine actually started to be dispensed on June 1. Again 31 May, 1 June, action-reaction. It is curious, as I told you in the first round, that this meeting of the Social and Citizen Participation Committee, that I have not told who formed it and I think it is great and we share it, and we welcome the formation of that committee. What we do not share is that you commit at that meeting to hold monthly and then do not. Curious too, the other day it is denounced by the sick, today by chance, they are called for 23 June. Action-reaction again. And now we have yours, which surely in your second turn will act as you have us used to: attack as best defense. Action-reaction. Look, we're already a little tired of being accused of going in favor of pharmaceutical companies. Nothing further. I thought you were going to use it in the second round, but I see you've used it in the first round. Here's a very clear question. For us, it is a shame whether a person lives or does not depend on four, three or five large laboratories, which are also getting rich, are profiting from the serious situation of these people. I hope you understand that this time, what our position is. The budget tells us 20 million since last year. Yeah, 10 million for this one, okay. It's a spreadable game. How much has it been expanded? It's data we don't have. How much are they going to expand it? Whatever is necessary, according to what criteria? 10 million more? 20 million more? Five million more? Because the departure of the ESAs is also expandable and we see every year that it does not serve much. I'll tell you again. I told you earlier in the first round, but I don't think I had the itzulpen zerbitzua and you didn't listen to me. We have reached out, as we did in the Commission, to go together in this, because we believe it is important and because it will also be for the benefit of patients. And we are ready to cooperate as much as possible to improve this situation. You have a second turn, which I hope you will use precisely to clarify what has not yet been clarified to me and our group, because if not, EH Bildu will use the same strategy that you use, action-reaction, and in the face of lack of action or action, our reaction will be a motion, to register it in the next plenary. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u139	Mrs. Blanco, thank you for your hand in treating hepatitis C patients. I think they'll appreciate it, too, if you don't take it. Look, don't tell me about action-reaction and use the second turn. You have come today after withdrawing the non-law proposal you had planned for Thursday 4 June, changing it, because I think it was absolutely incongruent, where the pharmaceutical industry was being talked about, and you have come to ask the same questions again to make a different pseudo-discourse. And don't tell me it depends on what I do here. You have indeed come to that, to propose a different text based on a completely different speech, jumps into sight. In any case, there everyone with their responsibility and the rigour with which we each do our work. If you presume to be well informed, ask. Look, apart from the meetings of the Social Participation Committee, that was not the first meeting between the department and the hepatitis C associations, there has been more. That was the first meeting after the councillor's order to form a social participation committee. That, by the way, some of the people who have participated in the Social Participation Committee have preferred other means of agitation rather than the direct relationship with the department. You will understand that a Social Participation Committee where many or some of the people do not have any health qualifications, is not the best place to take individual cases and make clinical evaluations. At least don't make mine there the day I have a disease. We will continue to work for the people affected and also to look after the rest of the people who use the public health system and who are affected by other diseases. Look, you know exactly what the number of people who may be affected by hepatitis C is, because that's what the scientific literature is for. In this the Basques will not be lucky to be different than populations similar to ours. So, you don't have to hear more than scientific literature and catch the population and prevalence of France, the UK, Germany, etc. Southern Europe is likely to have a somewhat higher prevalence, but our prevalence is likely to be more northward. In any case, these are figures that can be estimated quite well. Therefore, I repeat to you again, to see if it is clear to you. Is anyone going to be left untreated for an economic reason? Not at all, Mrs. White. That I don't know how much treatment is going to be worth last November. Because we are paying for each treatment something very different than what we paid between June and November last year, we are paying very different also than what was paid between November and January, and we are paying different also what we paid between January and May, and probably if new drugs arise, the prices will also be different. So, if you have the crystal ball, welcome. That's what we can summon. We don't have it, but we're not going to leave anyone untreated. Osakidetza, as I have already told you, has treated 757 patients on June 1, 2014 with the new medicines. This is our truth, this is the data. We're going to deal sequentially, with clinical warranty. We, no doubt, work for Basque society, thinking about its health and its health system. And of course, we will not try to favour the interests of multinational pharmaceutical companies in any way. Now, that's right, let's treat all the patients, Mrs. Blanco. Membership has always offered the best and the most recent medicines now and always, and you should know or know that. And that's what we're doing this time, buying and offering, fulfilling our word and work. It would be nice to be honest with you, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u140	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "The question is, that the members of the Medical Department of the Medical Department were made by Karo Saraz Basque Socialists, about the commercial activities of the particular quarters." Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u141	Mr Councilman, we have already seen for more than two years the existence of fraudulent and misleading business practices outside business establishments, which are affecting the elderly, who often live alone in their homes and do not have support, and this makes them much more vulnerable to such misleading business practices. But they're not the only people affected. Kontsumobide already produced a report on the off-premises sales study at the end of 2013, where it was found that almost 100% of the elderly respondents had offered these products off-premises on more than one occasion and more than one product. In September 2014, Kontsumobide, through his blog, acknowledged having had knowledge of this issue and launched some basic tips. In this regard, the Socialists asked yourself in the plenary session on 19 November 2014, and admitted effectively that these business practices were being carried out and that numerous calls and complaints had already been received in this regard. On November 25, Kontsumobide again, through his blog, warns of such practices and urges that precautions be taken to avoid being abused. But, Mr. Counsellor, these fraudulent practices are not only combated by posting advertisements on the web. Information needs to reach each and every vulnerable person to suffer from this type of selling deception in their own homes. That is why we Socialists have already tabled a non-legislative proposal to tackle this problem, reaching a unanimous agreement of all groups, where we have, as you know, urged the Basque Government, through the Kontsumobide and the collaboration with all the Basque municipalities, whether or not they have IMOCs, to establish joint lines of action in the prevention and information of possible frauds and deceptions in the marketing of products in private homes, to extend the channels of information so that the most vulnerable people – and, by the way, do not have access to the network – do not have to suffer this type of deception and are prevented and aware of these practices, which can be aborted in collaboration, of course, with the municipalities, which are the administration closest to the citizen. And we have to consider tools as useful and inexpensive as the sides, the websites themselves and municipal magazines, which I understand are complementary to Kontsumobide. As you well know, in the last few days we have learned again that a private company is making delivery to private homes in some areas of Euskadi, and we have detected it in all areas of the Upper Nervion, a health questionnaire called "Family Information Campaign", a commercial campaign that hides the sale of rest and health related products and that people are confusing with the department. That is why I ask you what action your department is taking on this issue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u142	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Miss Saraz. The consumer's purpose is to protect the Basque consumer, and so he intervenes in the eyes of the whole. This comprehensive intervention is carried out through awareness-raising, information and pre-consumer training, through the management of complaints that may be received subsequently. As you know, the Kontsumobide strategic plan, adopted last year, includes among its main objectives agile and effective information and training geared to new needs and trends. Online, Kontsumobide's 2015 management plan, drawn up by the technical committee, explicitly includes action to improve the agility and efficiency of action in the event of alerts, establishing a procedure on the management of Euskadi's consumer alerts. To this end, it was proposed to define, in agreement with Eudel, a system of collaboration in communication on consumer problems. The fact that last May was marked in the calendar on the occasion of the election campaign led to a delay in a meeting that we had scheduled between Kontsumobide and Eudel, to meet with the municipal consumer authorities of the different municipalities of Euskadi, in order to put forward proposals, to better define the system of collaboration and fundamentally to put in place new lines of action or intervention in situations of alert or suspicion in the field of consumption, as you have mentioned to me. In any case, I must inform you that, as of tomorrow, when the Euskadi municipalities comply, we will send back the call for the meeting, so that before the beginning of the holiday period it has been possible to start this formal performance, contemplated by Kontsumobide even on a previous basis. Kontsumobide's intention is to deepen the approach to all consumer risk situations, especially when they may affect the most vulnerable. We are aware that different municipalities have already activated different communication systems with neighbors and neighbors, through mobile messages, WhatsApp, email, municipal gangs, etc., for what we seek to move a proposal to create synergies and take advantage of the different existing ways to enable coordinated and networked work. Thus, at the moment when a possible misleading marketing is detected, any part of the network can activate the device and make it possible, in the shortest possible time, for the information to reach the greatest number of people. Despite this line of work that will be launched, Kontsumobide, as you know, has been communicating immediately and through the different ways, information and recommendations of this kind. The recent alert generated by the sale of mattresses at private homes and the recommendations to the effect that were published and disseminated last week from Kontsumobide, has been a clear example of this, and in this line we will follow. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u144	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u145	From the seat. Appreciate everything you've told us. But, of course, that warning that Kontsumobide has known has been precisely because some of the people we have detected, among which I consider myself, have promptly warned that relevant actions will be taken. But we would have liked that in the entire Ayala region, for example, where this practice has been massive and we have learned through the social networks themselves, there would have been gangs from the municipalities informing on the portals of this issue and thus it would not be possible to delay this. Although the municipalities are not set up, there are serving mayors and mayors. Therefore, leave this reflection. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u146	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u147	I thank you for your reflection, we will take it into account. As you also know, municipal consumer offices and municipalities themselves also have the capacity to do so. And it really coincided with the mattress alert, which we thank you for your communication, with the election period, and that was probably the reason for the delay. As I told you, next week we're going to make the call. And also, as I think you know, they have really been, as far as we know, not too many affected people, which does not soften so that, even if there was only one case, we have the obligation to act and that is our vocation. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u148	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Second point on the subject list: "The question is, that Daniel Maectu Perez, the member of the DIVER and the head of the political department in the region of the United States, is to challenge the change of climate." Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u149	Good noon to all, and also to the lady at noon. It's been almost four hours since you've answered the first question in this control unit, and my degree of surprise has not yet come down. And it hasn't come down because it's four hours for self-propanda, but it's the first time, and that's the most important thing for us to keep building a false speech. Because the European Union is not compatible with the strategy of fighting the climate change, and you know it. Because Europe aims to reduce 20 to 20 years of heatgas to 30%, 4030 years and 8040 years. Always, and this is very important, considering the year 1990 as a year's reference. Is that my engagement? No. When can we see the final strategy for the climate change of fun? When will we be able to see him in this Parliament? Or is it the one that's hanging from the aperilile, that's the final strategy? Or is that the final strategy that we have known through the media? What's the final strategy? And finally, to fulfill your aims in the media, what will be the steps you make?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u150	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. To answer, Madam Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u151	Good morning again, members of the legislature. Since time is very limited, and the subject is very substantial, I shall only give a few details about it. Besides, we'll have the chance to discuss this monographiccaki in September, or see this. First idea, climate change isn't about today when you're in the kitchen. The current strategy is the second strategy, the first strategy was in 2008-2012 and his results were very good. Secondly, the objectives of the new Basque strategy against climate change are, as your question rightly says, ambitious. I will make two assessments: that they are incardinated in those pointed out by the European Union, despite what you say; and that they are achievable, materializable, I would even say self-demanding for an advanced society like Basque. Thirdly, the sectors with the greatest impact on the climate change phenomenon are industry and energy, as you rightly point out, and transport as well. As such, the development of the sectors identified is uneven. On the one hand, the stamp of the Basque industry and energy are in a fortunate downward curve for various reasons, but in any case for a growing and growing awareness in society and in the Basque industrial and business fabric itself. The incorporation of the environmental element as a factor in the competitiveness of the Basque industry is a phenomenon, we believe, irreversible. The change in energy-producing sources and the progress towards more responsible energy consumption is also a constant in which we must continue to work. However, and everything must be said, transport is a growing concern in terms of climate change. Its impact is becoming more and more worrying and we must resolutely address an integral mobility model for its radical transformation, if we are not to have problems in the future. Here we do have a solid work, which we are dealing with and which we hope will yield results in a reasonable time. Fourthly, the Basque Government's climate strategy is a strategy that is addressed by the entire government, its departments and that affects globally and jointly. The different sectoral policies, especially those mentioned by you, to which I add transport, must consider their impacts on the climate phenomenon as a requirement of the strategy defined not only by the Department of the Environment, but also by the entire government. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u153	"Euskadi has set itself the target of 2050 to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by at least 60 % compared to 1990." That is what the published text of the Basque strategy for combating climate change says. Then in the press you come out saying it's 80%, but based on 2005. What are we left with? Who do you want to cheat on? And most of all, why do you want to fool us? And of course we will have a monograph, because Euskal Herria Bildu has requested it in this Parliament. Look, counselor, the International Environment Day you sell smoke and the remaining 364 days you do is emit a lot of smoke, a lot of smoke. You have a day as an environmental advisor and the remaining 364 days is Mrs Tapia, for example, who tells you that we have to keep betting on fossil fuels in this country, call him fracking, call him Zabalgarbi, call him Petronor, call him whatever you want. And not because Euskal Herria Bildu says it, Greenpeace said it in his last social environmental X-ray for Hego Euskal Herria. You're one day an Environmental Advisor, that day, International Environment Day, and the remaining 364 days you're the TAV Advisor, that means of transport you're never going to recover, and you know it, CO emissions. 2 which has issued in the works, and is much less efficient in emissions than the bus linking Bilbo and Donosti, and you are the TAV advisor. Therefore, stop selling and emitting smoke, and give your face with transparency and tell us what the real data you are going to commit to, or you are going to commit this society to in the coming years. Bring the strategy to Parliament, the real strategy, the one that comes with the data and that says exactly what the reductions are going to be made, comply with Europe and have as a reference the year 1990, that is to say 30% by 2020, 40% reduction by 2030 and 80% reduction by 2050, with 1990 reference, and tell us above all how they are going to do it, with what measures and with what money.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u154	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u155	Look, Mr Maeztu, Euskadi is committed to climate change, as he said before, for many years, not now. For many years, since 2008, when the first strategy was adopted, we have been at the forefront of the regions that are working on this issue. Climate change appeals to the whole planet, to citizens, to institutions, to society as a whole, to administrations. And that's why we're always talking about a shared responsibility exercise. We want to look for agreements, we want to conclude and we want to work on this strategy that we are presenting, I think it was June 2nd this year. There have been previous documents hung on the web, in fact, and distributed in different places and analyzed and discussed by all the institutions, society, associations, etc. that have made their contributions. All this has enriched the document, there is a definitive document at the moment, but it is true that it is a dynamic document, it is not static, the climate change strategy must continue to work and it must continue to have inputs and correct the path it is going on, because we are talking about targets to 2050, which cannot in any case be static. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-12.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-two.
