ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start with the theme lists, remember Ana Otdui has been appointed to vote for the congressman, that the fifth point in the theme list has been left for another, and that blood is given to the blood today and all you can afford. And we'll end up giving up the vote. First point in theme list: "Mouton, Antonio Damborenea Basterchea Eusgula, a member of the legislature of the Pogula Group, is in the case of the unemployment of the Basques. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Damborena, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u1	Thank you very much, Madam President. This motion that we have tabled is a consequence not so much of the inquiry that we made in the past, but of the answer that Mr de Hacienda gave us to that inquiry. In this inquiry we asked about the measures the Government intended to take in view of the fact that the recovery of employment in the Basque Country was to be towed from the rest of Spain, and Mr de Hacienda told us that we were spending much more money this year in the GIR, he told us about 76 million; of 32 million more in education expenditure (I say this because, as he then told me, we were not talking about these things, because I repeat them, and so we also focused on the subject); he told us that 48 million euros were spent on health expenditure, and 50 million euros on the return of the extra payment of officials. And our questions, of course, were not how much the current expenditure of the Government had increased, which we already know, that debate we had already had in the budget debate. We brought back the debate on the Government's investment, why this Government does not apply the measures that they see fit and which it demands from others. And he set the example of how the government, month after month, every week, every fifteen days, is with the baton, and the Basque Nationalist Party, demanding that the investments of the Y not only not be delayed, but that they be accelerated, and yet here it does not apply. The other day I was commenting on how Mr Lehendakari, at the European Union's event on account of Europe's new investment fund, said that we had to row all in the same direction, and we were asking the Councilman if they were going to take any rowing from that trainer to row in the same direction, and of course this government would invest more. And, as in the end it seems that some like to get mixed up with the data, with which if the data are not true, those of the EPA are not true, those of the Inem are not true, listen, look at those of the Eustat, and we stop talking about data. In other words, we all know that job creation in 2014 in this Autonomous Community has been the worst in Spain. We all know that. So, let's stop cheating on the loner, and see if we can take steps to improve that data. And when we talk about investments, which is one of the ways to promote stable employment, to maintain what there is, to increase employment, and we talk about investments, let us not repeat the debate we had in the budget debate as well. This year's budget provided for lower real investments by the Basque Government than the modified budget for 2014. Not on the execution: budget on budget. It was 20 million lower, and we said it in the budget debate and we keep it now, because that is so, because the numbers are from the Basque Government. We didn't make them up. But when we talk about implementing those investments, it is clear that this Government, when it comes to investing, when it comes to promoting employment with that public investment, is failing something. And since we are already in March, we already have some data for this year, and we can see in this year's data the investment that the Government is implementing from its budgets. And if we go to the big investment games, department by department, we see that in the Presidency, which is the research fund of 34 million euros, with the latest data sent to us by the Basque Government, the execution is zero. I say execution, I don't say payment, not even spending disposition. It's zero. If we go to Economic Development and to the Directorate of Technology and Strategy we see that, finally, chapter VII, transfer strategic research, etc., budget 111 million, execution-disposition of expenditure, zero. If we go to the environment, we will see the investments of the Basque Government in the metro lines, in Euskal Trenbideak, we see that in line 3 of the metro the execution is zero; in 4 and 5, the execution is zero; in the rest, which are more than 50 million, it is zero, and in the end, of a total of 80 million, the spending disposition is zero. If we go to Health, to the Department of Health, and we see the planned investment in each of the hospitals, worth 37 million euros, we see that the execution is zero. Zero spending arrangement, come on. When I say execution, I say spending disposition. The same if we go to Vocational Training, in Education: in the centers, the execution is zero, the investment. Or if we go to the repair of the teaching centers, the execution in investment is zero. And we can talk about the Children's Education Centers: budget 21 million, and the execution, spending disposition, is zero. Now, someone might think that, of course, it's that investments are made at the end of the year, they're not made at the beginning of the year, and then there's a schedule problem, and that's why in the Basque Government, the day we are, the execution in investments is zero. But, however, there are items that are not so and that are investment. For example, under the heading Y, investment in Y, which is financed by the Government of Spain, which has an initial budget of EUR 350 million, the expenditure provision at the same date is 246 million, i.e. 71%. And then one has to ask the following question: in the investments of the Basque Government, in its own powers, the execution today is zero; in the Y, which is financed from the state, the execution is 71%. So it is very good here to come to the rostrum and let the councillor or let the lehendakari tell us, in the events organised by the European Union, that investment is very important, that investment creates employment, that investment encourages employment, but in truth what we see, and already regardless of the total amount of the investment budget of the Basque Government, is that this is not happening. That is not being done by the Basque Government. And it is not doing so, department by department, in any of the investment chapters of real investment (VI or VII). And don't come to us again to talk about financing financial operations, which we obviously don't talk about at all in the interpellation we did, and it's one of the things that the counselor likes to get mixed up with. We are talking about real investments, chapters VI and VII: execution of the Basque government metro lines, zero; Euskal Trenbide Sareak, zero; in Education, zero; in Health (I say investments), zero. That's what we have today! Now, do not tell me that is that it is the problem of the gap and that it touches in December, because it turns out that on the Y..., on that we carry 70% on the same dates, with the same data from the government. And, therefore, what we have proposed is to demand once and for all that the Basque Government bring in a serious plan of investments, of real investments by the Basque Government itself. A serious plan that says how much you're going to invest, when you're going to invest, how you're going to implement it; that you're going to meet your own budgets, that you're going to meet your own commitments. Not the ones that others would want me to do: at least yours. And something that is so simple, something that is so simple, something that all governments have and propose, something that the PNV, the lehendakari seems very good and supports it when others do, it seems logical that we, if we really want to change upwards, increase the possibilities of job creation in this Autonomous Community... , it is logical that the Basque Government also joins that real investment. And that is why what we have proposed and what we have asked for and what we demand from the Basque Government is that it should once and for all bring us an investment plan from the Government itself. And stop talking to us about the government and the parliaments and the agreements, and so on, that if you want to talk about that too, but about the commitments of the government, at least if the government fulfils those commitments. As long as you don't meet them so far, at least put the batteries on. If the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party are well placed to invest, because it generates employment, or at least that's what you say when you demand others or others raise it, what we tell them is that the same story applies to you. We therefore call for something very simple, very simple, which is that this Government should take some real action to encourage job creation in the Autonomous Community. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u2	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing to teams that don't have any amendments, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u3	Thank you, President. Mr Damborenea, our group is going to vote against the motion put forward by you. Not because we are against the spirit of the initiative, because we understand that no one can oppose initiatives aimed at creating jobs, but because we believe that there is no room at this time in the budget. I would like to remind you that a 2014-2016 employment plan is currently being developed in this community, which started a year ago thanks in large measure to the momentum of our party, because it was the agreement that we Socialists signed in September 2013 with the Basque Nationalist Party and the Government, to achieve that agreement that was called "A more modern, solidarity-based, sustainable and competitive Euskadi", which facilitated Mr Urkullu's Executive's stability, resources and much of the ideas for developing a programme of reactivation of the labour market. Something about the initial text of your initiative, although later you have spoken of many more things. And we understood that it could not be otherwise when unemployment and the lack of expectations of those who suffer from it are the main problem in the country; when there are 170,000 people who, wanting to do so, cannot access a labour market, many of them young people with excellent academic training, and many also people over 50 who have enormous problems reintegrating into the world of work. And it is true that we Socialists would have liked the Government to be more diligent and more active in implementing the various measures incorporated into that plan, to develop it more energetically, with less pachorrha than it has done, and we have told it on many occasions. What is not to be received is that, as happened in the past year, a shock action, such as the regional plans to hire long-term unemployed and over forty-five years old, which were already planned since September 2013, will be convened well in May, or that the Lehen Aukera programme will not be published until August, aimed at encouraging companies to hire young people in training who have been unemployed or without previous work experience. Mr Urkullu's Government had to acknowledge these and other delays and non-compliances, and that was the purpose of amendment one of the reasons why we decided to facilitate the adoption of this year's budgets. And I would like to say that we are very vigilant in ensuring that the actions contained in the employment plan are carried out without undue delay and have an impact on the reactivation of the labour market, because this is the final objective of a plan that commits 775 million public resources and aims to mobilise 1,556 million in the private sector. That's what was signed in the plan. The resources are therefore allocated, the objectives are set: to support the financing of SMEs; to promote entrepreneurship and self-employment; to help young people with no work experience, older unemployed people and women who want to join the labour market; to promote productive investment and job-generating consumption through new schemes; to improve the training and training of unemployed and active people; and to ensure that the jobs they create are of quality. This is what the Socialists want and what we are watching for: for the government to put the batteries in place and carry out this programme with the effectiveness and dynamism that the economic and social situation requires. And anyway I want to tell you that Euskadi does not need, we think, what the PP brings us in his motion. What is needed is that all the resources provided for in the plan that was signed (the Employment Reactivation Plan) be put at the service of the objectives set, with the utmost diligence, so that their results are made known as soon as possible to their recipients (young people, unemployed people over 45 and people with low professional qualifications). Because, indeed, Mr Lehendakari, Economic Development Advisor – he is not present – and Employment Advisor, behind the numbers, it is true, there are people, but if that statement is not to remain in an advertising sonsonet you have to believe it, and work hard with the tools that have been put in your hands in this budget. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u4	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u5	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. As a matter of fact, when I saw this motion, I was surprised: and, on the other hand, it's wonderful to ask you for an investment plan without any indication at all. In front of this surprise, I read the original objectification of action, and stood still, without knowing what the object of the popular party was. You're asking him to make an investment plan for his job, and then, at first, we'd only have to read the order, we'd all have to protect him, but when we came from the Poptular, we thought we'd have to go deeper. What's behind this enterprise? And after you heard your interference, our suspicion has been confirmed. The only purpose of your initiative is to increase some companies' profits, not to enhance the conditions of the workers' work, in this way to reactivate the economy. No, your plan is to increase some economic benefits directly. You don't ask to create a social employment, which is a key to the EH Collect, because it doesn't mean that working nowadays should be dignified conditions of life. The fact that at the present day a fixed contract does not mean that employment is of quality, so we have many doubts with the concept of stability. On the other hand, we're sure that we understand something different from the Popular Groups and the EH Collectations of Investigation. I'm sure it's all right for you to invest the train at BC or Supersur or high Speed in such macros. On the other hand, this EHG isn't investment, it's expense. And we say that we do not wish to spend any more of these macro-brackens; besides the employments that arise in the public works, human income must be considered. We don't want to spend money in the cement. Besides, we do not think that such works produce a high employment and constant employment. As an example, we have spoken at a thousand times of the state of slavery in which many of the workmen have worked. Two weeks ago, we had the appearance of the Bizala Corporation: what conditions of work they have had, and besides, they have not been paid to work. These are the workers who work on the subway line security. That's why, Monsieur Damborene, we don't think that investing in the concrete is of its own accord to produce a social employment. For us, it's an investment to build the OPEs necessary for education, and, of course, at Osa industries, we have to invest in industry, strengthening the existing industry, improving technology. You have to keep your position. It's supposed to be a reference paper to help out the companies that are going through a bad situation (dignostizing and helping), and that's why we're asking a protocol to be started. If it's important to create employment, it's even more important to keep what's going. You can't keep your arms crossed while you see how the reference companies have been closed or delocated until hundreds of people are fired. To invest more on that, too. To collect EH must be invested in research, in every department. We're also looking at a lot of young men, even researchers, going out to work, and this town can't accept it. In research we must invest much more because of the quality of our future. And as I have said, in every respect: in health, in education, in technology, in permanent energy... In fact, we have to ask him to invest us in the effective active policies for creating and keeping jobs, and to do everything that is necessary to design passive policies and to develop them, because that will give us the chance to develop our own circle for our jobs, and even after sure that it will be an effective tool to develop a permanent job. But we ask PPP if it's really the object of this initiative to create a high-quality job, and start asking the people in Madrid to cancel their job reforms...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u6	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u7	Because this reform has traded out workers, because it has fully damaged the state of collective negotiation, because it has brought about a total debasement of labor conditions. It's only a rule of corporate utility, capable of increasing the profits of corporations. On the other hand, he has brought nothing but increase the preparation of the workmen. For all that reason, PP seems to us to be a hypocresis in favour of a stable employment. Besides, in making this plan, even in defining an investment, there are very different opinions, very opposite. That's why we vote for everything. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, chief physician. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Damborenea, in the interpellation he made to the lehendakari he also recalled, and today he has done so again, the words that the lehendakari made and the request made to us by the lehendakari reminding us that it was time to row together. Then he commented on it last week in plenary and today he has done it again. I think there's a hunch about the preposition. I believe that in the interpretation you have made of the words of the lehendakari there is an important nuance in the preposition you use. Because the lehendakari, when he was referring to rowing together, was referring to picking up the rowing and batting with others, and it seems that you, from a time to this part, understand rowing together by taking the rowing and batting with others. The shade is considerable. You were telling us we're going to the state trailer. See, in the State, the figures for the closure of unemployment in February, from 4.525,691 unemployed to 4.512,153 unemployed, a reduction of 0,30 %. In Euskadi, from 172,165 to 170,895, which means a reduction of 0.74 %. The trend is different. You've reviewed the execution data for us. Don't worry, the budget will be implemented; the investment items to which you have referred will be implemented, and the rest of the budget too. And he said that we would not remind him of what we were doing, but we will remind him, because we will not stop talking about what the Basque Government is actually doing in such an important matter as economic recovery and job creation, which, as the lehendakari said in his investiture, is one of his priorities. It's clear that our MPs are going to vote against the Moment introduced by Poptular Group, but since the initiative has been introduced, we'll take advantage of the chance to re- remind you of what we've done from Joy. I'll remember the latest data in the end of February, as it is about "reativa al paro en Euskade." As for the raw product inside you know also what the data is. It was scheduled to go up 1, 2014, and finally it went up to 1,2% in the raw internal Euskal product. And it's scheduled for 2015 to be a 1,7th ascent. Nothing was expected in the case of the Eplexus, expected at last 3% of the year, and it's expected to re-create a clean job for 2012. As we can see by data, the government's predictions have been fulfilled, and we have reached the point of infulxio, and have arrived from time to time to growth, and we are beginning to counterpoise and resume our employment. And so it is, Mr Damborenea, that we are starting to recommence, and I have no doubt that you are happy about it, even though by political posture you cannot recognize it. We have moved from the deep recession to discrete growth, and from the destruction of employment to a humble recovery of recruitment and employment. It is now necessary to work hard in order to revive the Eucharistic economy, and to strengthen and revive these first symptoms of employment. When the President took office, he made it clear what was his priority: economic refresh and job active. In the same way, it's an engagement to people, and that's what it takes to get political and institutions. The emergency situation required a shared initiative in the Basque organizations, and it was done by fun with other institutions. And it's all right, Mr. Damborenea, to remember that he was the head of all the eucalyptic organizations he'd done. And as we said at the beginning, we've already got it running. There's something going on about making Echonomical Activity and creating Elegua from 2014 to 2016. In September 2013, they arrived at a political agreement with the Jeltist Party and the Socialist Party, as the Socialist Party spoke for that purpose. The consequence of this settlement will invest 6,475 million dollars to 2016. We believe that our responsibility is to offer commitments to human society, high ambitional commitments, budget restrictions, and economic boundaries, which may be taken seriously. A year after the agreement was signed, more than a hundred initiatives have been started for the creation of jobs, public infrastructure, internationalization, and innovation, for the support of industry, and for the recovery of economy and activity. In 2015, more than 2,000 million euros are going to go through all these matters to protect the fabric of the company and promote the job. And then, in reply to the session, the chief physician remembered you in the parliament, and he told you all those sums that were carefully examined and directed to see: 313 million for active policies, 112 for training, 213 to promote jobs, 640 million investments in basic substructure, railway networks and ports, and water supplyings, 110 million for the first sector, 206 million research, innovation and technology, 50 million for trade. And that, without forgetting all this, we must at present answer to more necessities with less resources. We've accepted legal matters and that's where the road to investments and other areas is held up in legal matters this year. The motto that the Euscadi Seed Acrazi is chosen by the Eusca, for the election campaign in front of us, and this, more than the motto, is the end of our party. To create employment and well-being, that is the real goal. And that's what we're working on from the organizations we're working for, and we're protecting the Euberts from the legal team for fun. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the answers, Monsieur Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Pastor, everyone has the commitments he has. I understand that you have approved the budget and that you have to say that you also approved that 2014-2016 employment plan, which I will have to tell you... Well, the worst autonomous community in all of Spain!, the only one in which unemployment increased (2014, at 31 December). So, what we're proposing... I'm not criticizing that plan. I criticized them all, especially because everyone came with that phrase that said, "They will be financed with the greatest tax collection we will get after the fight against tax fraud." Of course, what did it consist of? If this was our budget debate! Hey, zero. The budget for this year increased by 400 million compared to the previous year, with increased revenue. Where were they going? Neither one, nor one, was going to promote employment of any kind, neither in investment nor in non-investment. Not at all. Therefore, you will know what your approach is. Of course, we have that clear. Why have we brought this proposal, why have we done the interpellation? Because we see we're going to towing! And we don't want to go to the trailer. We want to go first and be the autonomous community that believes the most in employment. Not the least unemployed I have, but the most employed I believe. Without doing anything in this Autonomous Community – and the President of Confebask explained it quite well the other day – without doing anything, we are moving towards full employment. Because, of course, we are less and less, there will be more and more retirees with the same jobs, and, as the pyramid is so, then, in the end we will all find jobs. Of those left, of course. That's not why we're here today. We don't want that. We believe that, in addition to full employment, we in the Basque Country need to create many more jobs, and be more. And be more. But you, who are nationalists, should want it more than I do, because it is the only way a supposed Basque state is viable. How unviable it is with a pyramid like this, and without creating jobs. EH Bildu said he was surprised that the People's Party was making a proposal on stable employment. Well, I don't know why you're surprised! Look, the basic difference between you and us, also us with those (and now, as you are all Social Democrats, or more leftists...), so, our difference with all of us is that for us the best social policy has always been full employment, that people have a job. Not that people have more subsidies, no: that people have a decent job that gives them enough freedom to live. That's the difference. To us it has always seemed a bad fact to increase the endowment for unemployment or the endowment for RGI, because what that means is that there are more people who do not access that decent job they should have. That is our social policy. I know we differ from the rest of the House, but we will continue to defend it always. Because besides, this isn't a debate... you don't think it's new, eh! It is very old, this debate is very old. In the year 93 and 94 it already existed: work had to be distributed because it was impossible to create employment. That was the debate in this House and in the rest of Spain, and the People's Party said, "No, no, no; we want to go towards full employment." Listen, and it wasn't so bad, and in this Autonomous Community, of course, there was full employment. Now, we've moved on to the situation we're in. You tell us that we want to increase the profits of some companies. Let's see, so you understand me: some not, all of them. We want all companies to make money, and create jobs. Not some of them, not all of them. Of all those who create jobs, in short, of all those who are not ghosts or of such enterprises. Let's see if you understand me. Of those who create jobs, of those who have workers, we want them all to earn money, and a lot, and to invest more and create more jobs. Yeah. Yeah. We don't differentiate between them. And you tell us that you don't want to invest in the Y and that you don't care about cement, and that you investments... you have to invest in research. Listen, I've given you the data, I'm not going to repeat it: execution in research, zero; execution, I don't know, on the subway lines (are you in favor?, are you against?, are they half...), I don't know, zero. On the Y? Look, 70%, that's what we bring to this date, from this government, of course. And the lady of the... (I'm running out of time) says, "The budgets will be executed." Listen, the same thing they're running the Y, they could run their skills. It is not the same thing to create employment now as to wait to see if we create it in December because we implement those investments in December. It's not the same, eh! But for nothing it's the same! It tells us that we have moved from recession to growth. Of course, like all of Spain! But let's also slow down, let's also slow down. If we – I repeat to you – do not want to be the least unemployed! We want to be the ones who create the most jobs, see if they understand us. And the scheduled games, listen, I've read them to you, I've read them to you. I can also read you that the execution in aid of conciliation is zero, according to those same data! You're about to talk about... Or that in the ESAs...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u12	Finish up, Mr. Damborena.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u13	(I will finish, Madam President.) Or that in the ESAs the execution is zero, already put to talk about everything. But I will tell you what the priority of this Government is. It is clear that for this government its priority is not investment: February, day 12, Basque Finance Council, liquidation of the Strategic Investment Fund; as we have more than 3 million euros left that we have not invested in 2014, we take them to the administrations and it is not invested.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u14	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists team. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u15	Look, Mr Damborenea, we understand that this is not so much an accounting or financial discussion, as you put it, because it is the most comfortable thing that moves, because what is true is that this budget has 450 million more than the previous year, right?, and I don't care if those banknotes, with a brand, are destined directly like this. What I want is for you to go to the General Budget, and then what I want to compromise, and that is what you committed, is that there are funds allocated for job creation, especially for more disadvantaged groups. And those are the 775 million that appear in the budget, and those are the 1,500 that can be mobilised from the private sector. Because, in any case – I want to tell you something else – it does not seem to me that a representative of the People's Party is the most legitimate to talk here about job creation, and above all about quality employment. And you said, "The job created in Euskadi is like the job created in Spain." And the one who is created in Spain as the one who is created in Europe! Because the one who has changed the sign of the crisis is all of Europe, and something has to do with Mr Draghi in this matter. Much more than Mr. Rajoy, much more. Because also, if you want, we talk about the job you create. Is it employment that what was before a contract is now divided into three and count as three jobs? Is it employment that a teleoperator who works fifteen hours a month and earns 350 euros also disappears from the lists of unemployment and appears as a new worker? Is that the job to which we aspire? Is that the job that guarantees a decent life for the workers of this country? No, that makes statistics, but nothing else. That does not solve the problem of employment, that does not provide social security contributions, that does not solve the problem of the social security cash deficit, Mr Damborenea. That's cheating on public opinion. But, of course, who suffers that problem, who are the unemployed, certainly does not fall into that deception. They know that they do not arrive at the end of the month, that with 400 or 500 euros you can hardly make a project of life, neither can you rent a house, nor can you pose a scenario of independence of family life for young people. That is not the model of job creation in which we Socialists believe, Mr Damborenea. And if that is the scheme that you want to give us as the wonderful horizon to which we have to go, then sincerely, we do not want to go that way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u16	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The representative of the EH Group must not speak a word. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u17	Yes, thank you, again. In legal matters, I've put 22 million dollars on the World Series until 22 million dollars are added to investments. CHAPTER VI. In the chapter of the chapter, in the seventh, for employment and housing, "unarrollo econmico y competividad, tecnología, agriculus, promoción agroalimentary," and for that department 106 million, for the Industries of the Osaments, 31 million, URAB, 59 million... It has already been added since last year, 22 million has been added. You say "Vamos más lentos," and you know better than you do, Mr. Damborena, economic Escal structure, which is an economic structure based on industry, that it is slower and with different rhythms compared to Spain. We need to be realists in this context, and we need to understand that public administrations can't represent jobs in creation. Public administrations can't represent corporations in office creation, no, that's the way it is. What we're going to have to do is improve conditions in the economic environment by enabling jobs stability and competition, but we can't do it again. I have to remind you that yesterday in Madrid, the Congress discussion, the Popular Party of the Eskimers, the Antibalt Party, had thrown back a highly interesting initiative introduced by the Antibarian Party and the protection of all the other parties. "El PP tumba la iniciativa de Empulo juvenil del PNV." It was yesterday, yesterday. "The plenary of the Congress yesterday rejected, with the exclusive votes of the PP, the non-legislative proposal presented by the Basque Parliamentary Group, the parliamentary group of the PNV, to promote youth employment through measures that encourage the inclusion of unemployed young people in the social economy and to promote certificationable training credits." Zelan izan daiteke? Is she left behind, gaurkoa, full buruzkoa of age he has atzera boot, ekimen zehatz beat full gasteen artean sustatzeko? Amaitzeko, lehen esan disudana gogoratu behar said. I insist on the idea I was saying: that I think you have a little problem with that preposition and you should change it. Pay attention to the lehendakari, it's time to row together, but rowing together means taking the row and batting with others, and not taking the row to bat others, which is what they're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. The third point has been abandoned for another reason. Second point on the subject list: "Mortion, María del López de Ocariz lópez de Munininka, members of the Popilative Groups, referred to the difference of the organizational regulations of the land (LAG). Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Madame Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u19	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President, Mr Lehendakari, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. We present this motion from the People's Group, which refers to the unique situation that has occurred, is occurring, in the so-called non-substantial amendment of the Territorial Guidelines. We tabled the motion because the answer you gave to the question we raised from the Group of the European People's Party was null and void to the questions we put to you. He did not answer any of the questions we raised. We could well say, Madam Counsellor, in view of the lack of an answer, that you are worth more for what you keep quiet than for what counts. But I am not going to go into any more questions, because we have reached an important agreement and, therefore, I think it reflects in some way what we were asking in the inquiry, when we said that it was a proposal that did not contemplate consensus, did not participate in the consensus of the parliaments and the municipalities, something that seemed unusual to us; that it is a proposal that, in some way, interferes with the competences of the municipalities and the parliaments, which can be interpreted as colliding with other laws, such as the Soil Law, which does not enjoy a strict legal contrast, because it is plagued with inaccuracies, from our point of view... And, therefore, we present the motion, and the agreement we have reached is as follows: We urge the Basque Government to "formally initiate the process of reviewing the DOTs taking into account the current challenges in the economic, social, environmental, gender, cultural and landscape areas, through a broad process of citizen participation". We urge the Basque Government to "establish the necessary instruments of collaboration to ensure that any modification and revision of the DOTs are carried out in a framework of coordination between the Basque Government, out-of-town deputies and municipalities of the Basque Autonomous Community – and within the Commission for the Planning of the Territory of the Basque Country – that respects the competences that each institutional sphere owns". And "that the proposal to modify the residential quantification and the formula associated with this proposal, which is being processed by the Government, be integrated into the work on the revision of the DOTs and follow together the procedure established by the Territorial Planning Act for its approval". This is what, in short, we put to the adviser in the inquiry, and I believe that the agreement that we have managed to reach today is very important in order to resume an important work that affects the entire planning of the territory and the residential quantification as well, which is a quantification that is binding, that is of direct application and that has an important impact on the planning of our municipalities and the territory. We therefore believe that resuming the consensus that was altered in the Ordering Committee on 18 February is very important, and I believe that this may be renewed for a much more participatory, more consensus-based purpose and respect for the powers of each administration. Nothing more. I thank the groups for their willingness to reach this agreement. I believe that the Government and the group representing the Government have also made an important effort, and I would like to thank you, Mr Aldaiturriaga, for working on a number of proposals and in the end we have reached an agreement. When I have to recognize something I have no impediment to it, and I believe that your work has also been important. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u20	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Matute, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u21	Madam President, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. Today, after two years, we'll discuss it again and take the DOT initiative to the vote in this conference. We may conclude that on the terms made on this plan, we shall agree that for two years nothing has been advanced in the course of this legislature. Then we would say that it is an indispensable tool for the management of our country, the management of the country, the influence of the country in all its sphere of life, the economic model we have and would have desired, to ensure the future of the people and the people in the exercise of our country. And we said for this discussion, we proclaimed that it was necessary to start part of the process, multiple and wide, because of its importance. Now, after this time, after two years, we go on as we do then, sitting at anchor on the reading of the land which is common to the few, and which is common to the people and to the country which is common to them. He said that two years ago we had a debate, really a quiet debate, about the position of each political formation on the Territorial Planning Guidelines, which, although the debate and the subject is arid, are the tool that in 1997 this Autonomous Community decided to create to harmonize policies that directly affected and affected the territory. And we also said two years ago that these policies were practically all policies that affect the development of a model of society, of an economic model, of a model, if one wishes, even of coexistence. Because we were talking about all the perspectives that had to be integrated in the analysis and revision of the policies that were being made on the territory. We had the opportunity two years ago to hold this debate, we even reached an agreement, a majority agreement in this House, to initiate this participatory process, to launch a process that would cover all these dimensions (environmental, social, economic, which affects infrastructure, which affects food sovereignty or the development of the agricultural fabric, etc.), and what is the reality after two years? In that area, in that particular area, nothing has progressed. If the law was important in 1997, or the tool, and it was, although – we also say it sincerely – our vision of what should be DOT seems to differ quite from what most political formations understand to be DOTs, for us it is betting on validating a developmental model that continues to pre-position the possibility of generating benefit over the sustainability of the environment and endogenous development of our country, but, instead of entering that debate, what we have seen is that the participatory process has remained at nothing. Today – and it has been pointed out by those who have preceded me in speaking – we again present an initiative that once again affects that need, but which includes a new element. Because it is true that in these two years, although no progress has been made in the process of reviewing the DOTs in those parameters that we have agreed in this House, it is no less true that what has been done has been highly answered. In one case, because it seems that the municipalities are being deprived of sovereignty through the application of regulations or a set of measures that limit the potentials and capacities of each municipality to self-regulate the use of their own soil and, in a much clearer and more defined way, with what has to do with the so-called residential quantification formula. And we have also signed the transaction that has been made known before, and, we also say it clearly, we have signed it because we believe that this debate is necessary, because we believe that the differences are silent, and that it probably makes sense there, in that place, that debate. And because we are radically opposed to the ways of doing politics that lie in approving, by decree of 30 June, a reform of the formula of residential quantification that it does is to hinder the capacity of the municipalities to develop and neglect the reality proper to each municipality. To be very graphic, if the previous formula was out of date because it allowed building beyond what the demand requires, the modification that has been proposed makes it even more difficult for municipalities to have a development. Because, while it is true that it reduces the number of maximum dwellings that they can build, it is no less true that it increases the minimum level of requirement that they have to build. And that's a mistake. That is a mistake, because it is not to attend to the reality that we are living today. And it is also a mistake to suggest that the Soil Law, which was passed in 2006 and which established an eight-year extension for municipalities to adapt their PGUs to what that law establishes in land uses, acquires through this amendment an eight-year extension, that they will again have another eight years to continue to maintain construction criteria for residential use that have little to do with what that law established and that it tried – at least in its debate, and I suppose in the approval – to seek a solution to what was already a highly dangerous land occupation measure for generations to come. Therefore, from the agreement in the transaction we point out the difficulties and differences. Difficulties we hope to discuss in a framework of collaboration, I do not know whether to agree, but coordination between the different institutions concerned. Something that has not been possible to date, but which we hope will be possible from now on. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u22	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u23	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an initiative that has little or nothing to do with the initial idea of the Member who promoted it. The interpellation that gave rise to this motion justified the initiative in the invasion of municipal competences in the area of urban planning that the Government was in its view carrying out in connection with the modification of the formula for the calculation of residential quantification. Formula that has been implemented by the Planning Commission of the Territory of the Basque Country for almost twenty years. The motion continued to speak of the usurpation of outside and municipal competences in the area of urban planning committed in the file for the modification of the DOTs. She was probably not satisfied with the explanations offered by the counsellor in this regard, but she was again charged against the Government. The text of the motion contains two pretensions: that the powers of local administrations are respected in the procedure for the revision of the TSOs, and within the committee. And on this we must say that the Government's respect for municipal competences in urban planning has been its standard of conduct in all years of implementation of the Soil Law. And, in any case, municipalities are of age to defend their interests. I do not know many cases in which a municipality of the Autonomous Community has used the route of the application for jurisdiction against the Government on the grounds that this invasion is occurring to which the proposing group refers. The second proposition was that of the formula for residential quantification, and that it should be incorporated into the work of the guidelines. In this regard, I must point out that this Government has already included in its programme of work the need to revise the guidelines, and to do so it has agreed, first of all, to abandon the process of modifying them initiated by the previous Government, except as regards the formula for the calculation of residential quantification. And the treatment followed with regard to this blissful formula is what motivates this motion. A formula, as I say, drawn up with a broad consensus twenty years ago, which has been oriented towards a model that has demonstrated its effectiveness but which is understood to be outdated, which needs to be revised, adapting it to the current demographic reality. The existing residential quantification formula is not in line with the sustainability criteria and real new housing needs; therefore, it is proposed to adapt the formula to the current circumstances, in order to be able to have another more suitable formula as soon as possible. It is a rational proposal, which aims to adapt the formula for calculating the forecasts for the creation of new housing in the municipalities, taking into account (or in accordance with the above) the evolution of the population in recent years, the variation in the family size, the number of people living in the dwellings, and the number of empty or unoccupied dwellings in the municipalities. It is therefore a question of assuming criteria of responsibility and sustainability of the territory, without unnecessarily occupying or artificializing more soil than the precise one. And, Mrs López de Ocariz, it does not violate any outside or municipal competition. In his inquiry last day 27 he referred to articles 103 and 105 of the Soil Act, but he has not, however, mentioned to us what specific aspects of these articles are violated by the Government's actions. He has not been able to tell us what are the municipal competences that in his opinion are "usurped", by using his terminology. Of the interventions produced in the Territorial Planning Commission, neither at the time of the initial approval nor at the time of the interim approval has there been any administration that has referred to or denounced a competitive invasion. Only through the press has it been reported that the Government usurps urban skills to municipalities of less than 7,000 inhabitants. Precisely on 18 February, the issue of residential quantification was addressed in the Territorial Planning Commission, and a commitment was made at that meeting to continue working with the various institutions, especially with the municipalities, to study in more detail the casuistics of the effects on each of them. We believe that there is still time and space for understanding and agreement, and we have no doubt that the necessary efforts will be made both from the Basque Government department and from Eudel. And this is precisely what we have proposed through our amendment, and what is basically incorporated in the transaction agreed today and which we want to highlight: understanding, collaboration and inter-institutional loyalty, as well as respect for the competition framework and the defence of the interests of municipalities in the process of revising the Territorial Planning Guidelines. As they are already collected, as I said, in the transactional all these elements, we will gladly subscribe to it, of course not without first thanking Mrs López de Ocariz for the praises she has dedicated to me, undeservedly deserved. And a point, Mr. Matute. With regard to the formula that appeared in last June's decree, it must be said that this decree is part of the beginning of the amendment file. Therefore, the Government's formula is not definitive, and what it does is to mark the Government's proposal for an exit, which will undoubtedly be taken into account in the entire process of its elaboration or the process of reaching an agreement, as is happening in recent times. And that is what the compromise amendment we have signed, which we will certainly be working from this group to ensure that it is implemented. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u24	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Passing the teams that don't run, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Broads, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u25	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, Mr. Counselor. The non-substantial modification of the OTCs that we are dealing with here today is not a matter of two days ago. This comes from 2006, when the Government of the lehendakari Ibarretxe and the Minister of the Environment and Territorial Policy Esther Larrañaga launched it. Government in which the current councillor (who has left us, seems not to be so interested in her) was also present, who was then deputy councillor for the Territory's planning. Amendment which was continued by the Government of Lehendakari López and Councilwoman Unzalu. And so the work concerning the modification of the DOTs was progressing, and by order of the councilwoman of 24 February 2012 the amendment was initially approved and submitted to public information and to the audience of all the administrations. In this context, three participatory workshops were held, as you know, one in each historical territory, and in this period of public information a good number of allegations were presented, highlighting for their generic nature those presented by the municipalities governed by Bildu and also those promoted by a group called Desazkundea and the unions LAB and ELA and other social organizations. This is a demonstration that the modification of the DOTs that was launched by the Government of the lehendakari López was a work of different governments and had a great participation and initiative of the different administrations. For this reason, we were surprised by the agreement reached in 2013 by the Basque and Bildu Nationalist Party in this House in February 2013, in which they urged the Government to suspend the procedure for non-substantial amendment of the Territory's Guidelines already under way. But we are more surprised to see that the positions that the parties had in 2013, in February, today, two years later, have completely changed. Mrs López de Ocariz, spokesman for the People's Party, asked the councilwoman a few weeks ago about the modification of the DOTs, arguing the usurpation of outside and municipal competences that entails such modification. It also suggested that such a change was being made as non-substantial, when residential quantification was mandatory and should not be made through this procedure. But I find it surprising, Mrs López de Ocariz, that you say that this should not be the procedure, when in the debate on the non-law proposal of February 2013 your colleague, Mr Damborenea, who intervened in that case, was in favour of the amendment to the whole Socialist Party, which urged to continue with the non-substantial amendment, and at no time said that that amendment usurped powers, neither outside nor local. In particular, Mr Damborenea said: "It is clear to us, in view of what has been raised, that the Socialist Party's amendment seems more reasonable to us, and that the modification and adaptation of the DOTs to the times in which we live should continue." And the People's Party, among them, voted against the compromise amendment reached by Bildu and PNV, which called for the suspension of the non-substantial amendment. That's why I'm surprised that you now, two years later, are the one making the suspension. And you ask rigor, when you don't have it. And, Mr. Aldaiturriaga, neither do you. I remind you of the master class that you gave us in that plenary, which told us what were the classes of DOT modifications. Because I wasn't a parliamentarian, but I read your speech. And you said: "In this law we have ordered, from greater to lesser degree of intervention according to the content of the alterations, the following four classes of modification: ordinary revision, extraordinary revision, substantial or qualified modification, and non-substantial or simple modification, when it does not affect the substantial elements and has a residual character." You said: "It is an important error, that is to deal with as a simple punctual or concrete modification something that is supposed to be a substantial modification." He went on to say: "I want to draw attention to the fact that the file contains several aspects that, in our view, serve to qualify the modification as substantial, particularly with regard to residential quantification." And you now want to treat as a non-substantial change what you claimed to be substantial. In short, two years have passed and it seems that you two have changed the roles: the one who supported that the amendment had to be non-substantial, now says that it is substantial, and the one who said that it was substantial, now says that it is not. Clear out! Since you ask for rigor, have a little rigor you too. The Socialist Party will be consistent. And Bildu also in his position, but the Socialist Party is, and we continue to argue that the modification, type and procedure chosen for modification was the correct one: non-substantial, correct and appropriate modification. And that is why the Socialist Party tabled the same amendment to the whole it tabled two years ago. The same. But we had to withdraw it when we saw the amendment to the whole tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party, which did not defend the amendment and slapped her in the face, when two weeks ago, at the inquiry of Mrs López de Ocariz, she continued and continued to defend the amendment and said that it was the correct procedure. It has therefore surprised us, and that is why we have had to withdraw, because it will not be the Socialist Party, from the opposition, who will have to defend Mrs Oregi, when her party does not defend her. That is why, given that Mrs Oregi in that inquiry said that the revision of the DOTs will be launched in the summer of this year, we also understand that, if there are four months to go, we do not see the urgency, as Mrs López de Ocariz says, of making this amendment by running and speeding up, if the revision comes within four months. Therefore, the position that the Socialist Party is going to take on the compromise amendment that you have reached is that we will ask – and remember it for when we vote – for the point vote, and we will vote in favour of the first and second points of the compromise amendment, and it will be a abstention in the third point. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u26	Thank you, Mr. Wides. Passing on the answers, Mme. l'Espez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u27	Yes, briefly to point out some things. Mr. Aldaiturriaga, you know that this document that was being processed and that has undergone many modifications... And they have nothing to do with what the previous government was dealing with, Mr. Zaballos. You must compare what you were dealing with and what you are dealing with. Nothing to see. One thing is the formula, which I didn't put... That a formula is necessary? Yeah. We've never questioned it. But you, who have followed up on this whole procedure since 2006, will know that the Álava Foral Chamber was opposed to it, and so a claim appears on the file in 2012, saying that it does not consider the non-substantial amendment procedure appropriate, because it is a binding procedure and affects the entire planning of the Autonomous Community. That's the point. The formula has some things we don't like, but this document goes beyond the formula. This document is part of urban management, Mr Aldaiturriaga, because the classification of land is the power of municipal urbanism, it has the character of structural planning, and it is laid down in general planning, never in the Guidelines for the Planning of the Territory. Therefore, Mr Aldaiturriaga, that is where we say that it collides with local competences, with the competences of the municipalities. What we do not understand is why the consensus that this committee must reach in order to deal with these matters has been broken within the Committee on Ordination, and that a document that does not have the approval of the parliaments or the municipalities should be adopted. Therefore, I believe that, beyond whether we like the formula or not, what needs to be achieved is a consensus where that formula is a broad agreement among all. I do not think I have ever said or questioned the need to change the formula, but it is that, to that change in the formula, this document that was put to the vote on 18 February added many more than anything to the formula. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u28	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. The EH Collecting Team. Mr. Matute mustn't speak a word. Eubertarians. Mr. fountain, your word is yours. From there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u29	Yes, with your permission, I'll talk from the seat. Two assessments in order of intervention. Mr Zaballos, the dossier for amending the guidelines initiated by the former socialist government had much more to do with residential quantification. It had issues that affected the territorial model, which is much broader. That is why the Government, this Government, has agreed to cancel, to file, let's say, that file, and yet to resume work on residential quantification, exclusively that. And that's where he's at. Therefore, it cannot be compared, it cannot be said that there are inconsistencies, but quite the contrary. That the dossier for the timely or normal modification of the guidelines is ongoing, and that it is currently being negotiated with the administrations concerned and with collectives and the general public. And Mrs López de Ocariz I must say that I believe that, in the end, if I know anything about urbanism, and not much, in my faith. But to say that the Basque Government never does, under any circumstances, is to classify soil. Never! You can't! You have said it perfectly: it is the competence of the municipalities. But the Basque Government does not establish classification. What is fixed is, in the formula of residential quantification, the number of dwellings that in principle, according to the territorial model of the PTP, belongs to each municipality. That is, the exact place, where it goes, what heights it has, if it grows to the north, south, east or west, that is the competence of the municipalities. There the government cannot enter, and has not entered life. So, simply by making things a little bit clear, the Basque Government does not classify soil. You just can't legally do it! It's the municipalities. I therefore believe that the position of the Government is clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u30	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Mr. Broads, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u31	Yes, Mr. President, please leave the seat. Two things just to point out. Mrs. López de Ocariz, I have to tell you... I am not saying anything against the allegation made by the Álava Foral Diputation at the time. The only thing I remind you of is that your colleague Mr. Antón Damborenea, here, two years ago, did not say anything about what you claimed. He did not say anything that this non-substantial change carried out a usurpation of competences at local or foral level. That's what I said. And that's what there is, and the hemeroteca is what it has and the writings are what they have. And, Mr Aldaiturriaga, I will read to you the paragraph in your speech: "I would like to draw attention to the fact that the file also contains several aspects, as I say, which, in our view, serve, on the substance of the question to which I refer now, to qualify the amendment as substantial. In particular there are two: one relating to the physical environment, and the other referring to residential quantification." You, in the amendment you have proposed, have removed things that we raised in the amendment of the Government, of the lehendakari, but what remains is residential quantification. And what you say here is that it should be considered substantial – that's what you said two years ago – it should be considered substantial, because it contains the issue of residential quantification. And its amendment, the one proposed by its Government, is that, residential quantification. So don't be saying that what was worth, what I was saying in 2002, now, as you're not interested in it, because I don't know what issues, so it's something else. This is what the writings have. Read it. If not, I'll give you your intervention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u32	Thank you, Mr. Wides. Forth point on the theme list: "Pull up the other proposal of the legislatures made by the Arkbanks in SA on the irregularity of Mr. Mario Fernández's reign in Mr. Pelaz's Institutions of Investigation. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u33	Hello, good morning, everyone. Today we came here to ask for an investigating committee about the Arkbanks, and I'll explain later on the functions of this investigating committee, but first I think it's important to clear up one thing, with the possibility and convenience of asking this committee. To begin with, I'll ask you one question: Who's the Arkbank? Who's it from? Mario Fernández? From Gregor's Villalabati? Of Andoni Orzia? Whose chest is it? The 16 members of the board? That's the 45 members of the patented Banks? Who's it from? It's often said that the Arkbank is a private institution, as Mario Fernández answered when last year we asked for his performance. "Prime is a Εnglish that told us, it's private, so I don't have to explain it to anyone." Others have often said, "You can't privatize what's already private." That thesis of some people is said to be a private institution in the Ark. But if it's private, who owns it? If the trunk has a owner, suppose stocks are sold: Where would they go in their pockets? Who owns the Arkbanks? Well, I have a theory. Or we, our team, have a theory, and it is that the Arkban does not belong to anyone named, and we believe that the Arkan belongs to the Basque Society, at least to the inhabitants of this Autonomous Society, to all of us. We know it's a Juridically a bank with a private character, but who owns that bank? Bank fudations. And what are those bank settlements? The proprieties of the boxes, that is to say, the institutions produced by the public inheritance, and the institutions produced by social ends. We think, then, that the Arkan, although he has a legal character, is a public institution in his functions, and a degree of demand must be what is done to a public institution. It's all property, even if it's not right, but it's the property of the Arkbanks, the institutions and the citizens, the customers and the workingmen, so it's our responsibility for this society. perhaps in an imperfection, but even in so far as we are representatives of this society, to take care of what takes place in the Arkbanks, to ask for accounts, and to guarantee that it fulfils its true purpose, its original goals. So that's why we think it's our role to keep going around the Arkbanks, to ask for accounts and control them. Who else controls the driver? Who guarantees the Arkbank fulfills its social goals? How can we guarantee transparency? Who controls the driver, trunk: Court councils or patricians? We know it's been a case for the past few weeks about Cabieces. The Cabies case is very irregular, if the crime has symptoms and all, and is, of course, investigating the courts. That's what you're gonna say, "Let's leave the courts do their jobs." but there is a political reading, and there are other elements; and it is for us to inquire into the truth, and to present truth to society: who asked for the opposition of Cabiecs, where there have been more similar cases, why the Arkbanks have retired as accusations, which are not written laws, and so forth. But we are not alone here to talk about Cabieces, or to talk about the Cabieces trial. We believe that the things or other things which have occurred in the late years of the Arkbanks are as severe or more serious in the economic terms as this, and we think that we ought also to demand information and to ask for enlightenment, and that this law requires right and right, moral obligation, moral obligation, and the reversal of those who have managed the Arkban. In classical Greece there was an institution called eupthyna. According to this institution, or according to this custom, or according to this law, when a magistrate was put to an end, in the presence of the institutions which ought to present his reign, he was obliged to explain and explain all the circumstances which had occurred in his reign. We might call him today redicion de cuentas, or something like that. Mario Fernández has recently left the President or presidency of the Ark Bank, and we believe that it is important and that this society has a right to know the truth about several things that have occurred in the Arkbanks for the past few years. We don't say... The trial Cabies is in the courts, and there are also symptoms of crimes in it, we do not say that there may be criminal symptoms in the other cases which we shall mention, but many obscure things. And dark things must be explained in a institution which has a public and social function, in the case of the Arkbanks. Emango said you were batzuk, he was a nik you were due to be battled demanding dutela. Kutxabanken etekinak izan will say... This year Kutxabank has won 150 million and has dedicated 45 to social work. Last year were 108 and 27 respectively, and in 2012, the first year of joint operation, 44.6 and 55. In total, in these three years of existence it has dedicated 128 million euros to social work. If we go back to the times before the merger, that is, when the boxes worked separately, we can realize that in 2011, for example (and we were already in the middle of the crisis, that is, it was not the time of wine and roses from the real estate bubbles, we were in the middle of the crisis), in 2011 only BBK won 220 million and dedicated 82 million to the social work. In 2010, BBK (I mean a single box) won 257; in 2009, 289 million; this year, 150. In 2008 – and it is true that it was the last year, let's say, of that splendour of the boxes before the crisis – together the three boxes won 555 million; this year 2014, as I said before, 150. This is important, because according to the benefits the social work is determined, and it is evident that there is a very significant deterioration in the amount of resources Kutxabank allocates to the social work. Since the merger, 1,100 jobs have been lost, and salaries have been frozen for two years. The consolidated net worth of the three boxes was, in the year prior to the merger, EUR 6.9 billion, and in 2011 it is determined at EUR 4.820 million. That is to say, between 2010 and 2011 there is a real-world cash pool calculus, in which it determines that they are worth 2 billion less than previously expected. And this is done in the face of fusion. We want to know why these data have been given. We want to know why there is a deterioration in the benefits and resources Kutxabank devotes to social work. And we know, indeed, that we are in a time of crisis, also in 2011 we were in a time of crisis, but we want to know why the merger of the three boxes, instead of determining a better economic result and a greater endowment to social work, has come to imply exactly the opposite: less benefit, less social work, worse conditions for workers in the boxes. And we also want to know and to be clear on certain important issues that happened before, during and after the merger process, and have a direct impact on these results and on this decline in the service Kutxabank provides to society. We'd like to know exactly how much BBK's been paid to buy from the Caja Sue today. We'd like to have a shot at the Caja Suen buying, because if the Caja Suen purchases were caused by losses, such losses have been affected by social action, for instance, by being smaller, and by a lesser degree of loan from the Arkbanks. We want to know what happened around Caja Suen, how much it's spent, what's the economic brake, that operation. And if there's a negative balance, who's responsible for that. The first thing that happened when Caja Sur was bought by BBK is that rating agencies lowered BBK's rating, in that case. There was talk of a disbursement, at that time, of EUR 800 million; soon, or nothing else, taking over the balance sheets, accounts of EUR 1.1 billion of losses in the South Bank had to be accounted for. And we want to know why this operation was carried out and what its economic balance is. It gives us much to fear, or makes us fear, that the operation has been done too lightly. In the words of Mario Fernández, one thing I will tell you about was the forecasts with which it was operating when this purchase was made. According to Mario Fernández, Caja Sur between 2013 and 2014 as a whole had to have given some benefits – and that was said in 2011, publicly – between 175 and 185 million. They have actually been 18.4, if we pay attention to the accounts they have submitted about Caja Sur. That is, there has been a 160 million gap between what they wanted to win with Caja Sur and what they actually won. Of course, so I'm a financial guru too! If I say I buy this box and I'm going to win 180 million, and then I win 16 and no one asks me accounts and no one asks me what calculations I've made those predictions, well, that's very easy to be known for being a good financier! But the reality seems to be very different. In Puerta Bilbao, a great speculative project, a great speculative ball that took place in Barakaldo, Kutxabank (BBK at the time) made a very powerful investment, bought the land after having broken the initial project, and today there are dead of disgust some land that cost him 116 million euros in Barakaldo: 116 million euros, more than that destined for social work in the last two years. Will anyone explain with what criteria the credit was first made and then the repurchase of these lands, to an entrepreneur who, by the way, was subsequently convicted of fraud? Jakin nahi dugu Porta Bilbao huts egindako pelotazo speculatiboan part hartzeak zelako ondorio ekonomikoak izan dituen BBKn eta Kutxanbanken. How much money has Kutxa lost in Murcia and Estepona, in the famous operations, in the luxury real estate complexes, in the golf courses, which I think is far from what projects should be financed by a savings bank with a social function? How much money has Kutxa lost? Where's the balance sheet, where are the responsibilities? Does no one ask for accounts that hundreds of millions of euros have been lost, in a public service box, in speculative operations that are completely unrelated to the function of this box? We believe that it is, that it is this Parliament that has to ask for accounts. First the data, and, depending on the actual data, ask for and demand political responsibilities, even if there were any. Because how was Kutxa before the absorption? I recalled last week that a political leader of the People's Party said that the merger of the Basque boxes for Kutxa was a sort of covert rescue. How was Kutxa, who had losses in the two years prior to the merger? And he had losses that he was also trying to cheat and hide in his balance sheets, until the auditor called his attention and demanded that he correctly account for certain items that had been made up. And, indeed, in the last two years before the Kutxa merger, the box – as he also said last week – of the territory that is in better economic situation is found throughout the Spanish state, Kutxa had losses. How have these losses affected the current functioning of Kutxabank? And we could continue with these kinds of issues, but it is that each of them encompasses hundreds of millions of potential losses. So, of course, I believe that in this country we have to get used to demanding responsibilities. And a box that has to meet public and social goals, and that loses hundreds of millions in clearly irresponsible operations, will have to account for someone. And so far that accountability has not occurred. I believe that it must be this Parliament that demands, through the creation of a committee of inquiry, full clarification of these and other issues, because, if not, we would be leaving our responsibilities behind, and we would be allowing the assets that should be managed with seriousness, responsibility and rigour to be managed lightly, by financiers who want to play sharks or Wall Street wolves with the money of everyone. Why is Kutxabank, today, the entity that makes the most evictions in the Basque Autonomous Community? Why has 20% of evictions been carried out between 2013 and 2014? Why is an entity with a social function a leader in evictions and does not have a much more flexible attitude? What's going on? What's going on in the morning and in the afternoon? What's going on? What's going on in the morning and in the afternoon? This is... it doesn't even occur to the man who roasted the butter. If you want to start doing social work, let them start being much more flexible on the issue of evictions. They have been asked, even when the bodies representing the boxes existed, concrete proposals to which they replied that they did not. They replied that not because that would affect financial stability, the profit and loss account, and that they could not paralyze evictions. Why does Kutxabank continue to apply the mortgage price benchmark, a clause that is clearly abusive and denounced as such by citizens' movements and also in the courts, which is an insurmountable cost many times for many families? Why is it misselling industrial assets, real estate assets, even the real estate company Neinor, which has been sold for urgent liquidity needs, when a more paused and more time-consuming sale could have generated greater profits? Hau guztia jakin nahi dugu. Eta egia da gu, EH Bildun, askotan esaten den moduan, Kutxabanken inguruko kanpaina batan gaudela, bai, bath Kutxabanken aldeko kanpaina batan. Kutxabanken aldeko kanpaina batan. Kutxabank calls it yes. Eta Kutxabanken badago –edo egon beharko luke – lege ez idatzi bat. The only unwritten law that should work in Kutxabank is the law of trust. The law of the trust of the citizens who deposit their savings in them, that carry out their financial business with them, of the SMEs, that trust Kutxabank, and that they see corresponding that trust with an honest, serious and responsible financial practice. That is the only unwritten law, and that is the unwritten law that has led Kutxabank to have the position it currently has in Basque society. The law of trust. But for that trust to be maintained...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u34	Go to the end, Mr. Casanova.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u35	(Bai, joango naiz amaitzen.) ... You can't give a blank check. Such confidence must be effectively required to be matched by practices consistent with the functions Kutxabank should have. And we are very afraid that in recent years that has not been the case, and we would like to put it black on white and investigate it with light and tachographs in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u36	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing in the district of teams that don't run, representing the Basque Potion Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u37	Thank you very much, Madam President. I may also be able to answer some of the multiple questions that Bildu's spokesperson has asked here in the rostrum. He says, "Who does Kutxabank belong to?". And he says, "To Basque citizenship." No, no, It belongs to the shareholders, and there are three, which are the foundations that used to be the savings banks, each in the percentage that it has in the shares of Kutxabank. The public service of Kutxabank No, Kutxabank has no public function. Kutxabank has the function of a bank. Public function will have the destiny of the benefits that foundations, shareholders, decide to spend on that public function or social work. And I think these things should be a little clear. Who controls the bank? Well, like all banks, the shareholder. In this case there are three. Who controls the shareholder? Foundations. And what is not to be done here is to say that there is a drop in responsibilities, because someone believes that some things have happened that seem wrong to him or that he disagrees, and then not to attend or not to participate. Abandonment of responsibilities... I can agree with part of the speech and what happened and how the Kutxa Gipuzcoana worked. Who has to demand responsibilities, how and where? Well, first in the savings box, and today in the foundation. But, of course, what you can't think about – I understand, let's see, everyone can pose what they want – how you can't make the speech here today is to talk about BBK's benefits in 2011 and why today Kutxabank has less benefits, and to confuse first benefits with the sharing of benefits... Because benefits are more; another thing is that part of those benefits must necessarily lead them to provide credits that may fail, for example. The benefits have not been 150 million, they have been more, what happens is that they must be brought to other things. And say, "Why is there less now and before there was more?". It's just that before, if you make the sum, maybe there weren't those benefits either, in 2012! Because if we look exactly at the Kutxa, how it really was... And since we don't know how he was, because the accounts didn't even show up... Who was responsible for that? The managers! Who had to demand it? His shareholder, the Guipuzcoa Savings Bank. You guys paint a lot there! Why don't they demand things there? Why don't you take part? Of course, leaving the responsibilities... hey, yours! Yours! He tells me about the decline in benefits and why they should... Listen, this is the debate that we have been having in this House for the last three months when we talk about Kutxabank, that to see what we want, a bank that makes money and can distribute more profits, or not. Because it's contradictory for you to say you make little money, and then say, "But many mortgages are executed." Listen, you either charge what's due to the bank, or... Of course, you have to be a little consistent! What do you want, more benefits or less? Because a bank we all know how to get the benefits: by lending money and collecting. If it doesn't charge loses, and if it loses, then there are no benefits. And if there are no benefits, there is no social work. This is so clear. In any case, I'll tell you one thing very clearly. It is clear that you, who have mentioned this, care about the Cabieces case when it comes to putting forward this committee of inquiry. You're telling us about the savings boxes, how they worked, how bad any of them worked, some operation they did another... And it's obvious that we're not talking or you're not posing whether Kutxabank is doing weird things today or not doing weird things. And, therefore, by sticking to what you propose, it is clear that we cannot agree.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u38	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u39	President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was thinking of starting with what had been of political interest to me the Bildu initiative, but, taking into account some of the things that have been said, that some are fine, that Mr Damborenea has matified, I will start by saying... When you asked who Kutxabank belongs to, who the boxes belong to, Bildu said to society, you said to the shareholders, and I said to neither society nor the shareholders: to the tax collectors. Because, of course, it's good to want to own the whole society, when some people don't even know where they go into the boxes or Kutxabank. Or it is good that three presidents of three foundations, turned into shareholders' board, without having invested a single euro, are the owners, as shareholders, of Kutxabank. Kutxabank belongs to its tax collectors. Thanks to its tax collectors, among which I find myself, it is possible that it exists. As Banesto is of its tax collectors (in this case of its shareholders as well), or as other entities of private banking or banking associated with cash registers, well, it is of its tax collectors, and in this case not exactly of its shareholders. He then wondered whether Kutxabank and the boxes had a public function. Of course they have a public function! The whole bank has a public function! Another thing is that they pass through the arch of triumph. That's another story. But why was the bank born? What is the role of the bank? It's a social function! It is a function of collecting deposits of money in order to be able to transfer them to society, to be able to lend them to individuals or companies and to allow the economy to flow. That's the reason for the bank. If not, what would be the point of banking? If it were a business in itself, closed simply to the benefit of its shareholders, what social interest could bank in society as a whole? Modern banking (not barter banking, but modern banking) is a bank that has a clearly social function. There is a great deal going on from that point on, but in any case it is clear that this is the case. But, well, having made those assessments, I will enter into what was of interest to me the Bildu initiative. With his initiative, Bildu proposes that this Parliament should agree to the creation of a commission of inquiry with two objectives: the first is to study possible irregularities in the company Kutxabank, and the second is to review the vicissitudes of the merger process of the three boxes. I am surprised by two things about the drafting of this initiative. The first is the limitless proposal to study "possible irregularities", their indecretion. If there is any reason to do some kind of research it will have to be about some specific aspect, it cannot be about something absolutely open and impossible to determine. And the second place is the indefinacy of what it seeks, understanding by vicissitude the "sequence of positive and negative events occurring at a given time". If, as is appreciated in the initiative, what it is about is to address everything that has happened in Mario Fernández's time of government, the goal is meaningless by disproportionate and absurd. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at a time when parliamentary committees of inquiry no one remembers for what purpose they were legislated, for what purposes they are regulated and what their interest may be in the society to which we represent. In trying to abound in this aspect, which I believe is crucial to our parliamentary work, I would like to recall something that is supported by several prestigious experts in parliamentary law, when they say that the commissions of inquiry have their role in the parliamentary control function of the Executive's activity, have a supervisory function, their constitution responds to the presumption that there have been irregularities or deficiencies in the performance of a governmental or administrative body whose responsibility lies with the Executive, and the object of the commissions of inquiry is to find out what is reprehensible or illegal in the performance of the body in question, verifying the actual existence of irregularities. Therefore, it is a question of verifying the activity of the Executive and confronting it with the legal order, clarifying and demonstrating what has happened. Let us translate this definition into the case before us by asking ourselves a number of questions. First, is Kutxabank a governmental body? Second, is it an administrative body? Thirdly, are your actions and decisions under our political competence? Socialists say no. Socialists say that Kutxabank is accountable to his board of directors, to his tax collectors and to his clients. For this purpose, it has the General Board of Shareholders, an executive commission, an appointment commission, a remuneration commission, an audit and compliance commission, and a risk control commission, and it also has the employers, with the foundations' assemblies. In addition, in view of its alleged excesses, abuses or irregularities, it has supervisory bodies, the Banco de España and the European Central Bank. And in addition, and ultimately, with the courts, which are competent to prosecute and resolve. This does not mean that a financial, economic and social entity of the magnitude of Kutxabank is or should be outside of politics. We Socialists are interested in everything that happens in Kutxabank, and, as we have stated on different occasions in this forum, the last very recently, we want Kutxabank to continue to have a public majority participation, to continue to take care of the local economy, the needs of the public administration, the business, commercial and rural fabric of services in the Basque Country; to improve the circulation of credit, to improve its profitability, to continue to sustain its own and other employment, and to continue to go to social action with part of its benefits. We know that we have a time of uncertainty about all these objectives mentioned above. It is true that there is a conservative policy that wants to privatize the boxes, that wants the social work to end in profit, but this is not resolved in commissions of inquiry. This is resolved by political offers that are mostly supported by citizens. I want another cash policy, another public or semi-public financial sector policy in Euskadi, Spain and Europe. We are proposing it and the Socialists are working for it to come, but this has nothing to do with commissions of inquiry. It is clear that there are different assessments, positive and negative assessments of the merger, but this is a matter of politics, of the correlations of forces, and not of investigations. But I'll tell you more. At a time when regulators look at Kutxabank with a magnifying glass and try to position themselves on whether the public participation of the boxes in Kutxabank is in accordance with the law or should be reduced, this overexposure does not benefit the public and social interest at all. Ladies and gentlemen, an internal audit a few months ago informed the Banco de España of an alleged irregular contract. This audit was communicated to the European Central Bank. Among these parties decided to place it in the hands of the Prosecutor's Office. The prosecution brought him to justice. Justice is acting, and those affected will soon have to declare, and everything is already underway. Democratic guarantees are under way, research is being carried out from those who have the skills, means and experience to do so. Neither Mr Fernández nor Mr Cabieces are part of the Basque public administration, they are not part of any executive body under the control of this Parliament. The resources used in the contract in question are not under the control of this Parliament. All we have to do is ask for justice to be done in the shortest possible time. And, of course, we will vote against the Bildu initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u40	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u41	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mr. Casanova, you started to question your interference, and that question received an answer. I will add another question to you, and it is with what criterion, or what criterion, or what criterion, the gathering requires, that the investigating committee should be formed, which are the criteria and ends which the gathering follows, because we have it clear, but we would like to hear it from your mouth. You have here said that it is necessary to explain certain facts, Mr. Casanova, and we believe that you have been late in all this, because all these facts are solved. Most of them are lit up by the prosecutor, all introduced into the council of the boxes, and you are there in the council of the different chests. So you should have known all about it. I don't know if you should have it, but Collect should have heard about it all. You've mentioned some loss of the Ark, and that's not how it works. That's not true, Mr. Casanova. In 2010, out of all the boxes in the state, the Ark remained second in the profits, followed by BBK. In 2011, and more than 2012, the Arkbank has first stopped inside the state financial system. It's not fair, it's not true, but you come here and do anything. All that has been given has been said, and the operaciles fallidas de Murcia y Levante, which you have mentioned, Casanova. It has also been reported. So, what's the point now that a concrete case is created, that we take it, pull it out of it, and put the whole activity of the old chests and chests on top of the chests, and ask for a committee to open it? With what criteria? Because you haven't even mentioned that matter. You've always used it as you always use it. Yes, Mr. Casanova, you haven't even mentioned it. Your end was another, an eternal goal: to make a sauce, to doubt all things, which is explained by asking to be enlightened-that is what you have done. We discussed Fernández and the Cabieckes in this parliament the week before. The members of the legislative community were now at the same time clear to this subject, and then I address you to the terms mentioned, and we look upon the position of our party as we have said it, but it has no meaning at all... And you said, "Now you're going to say it's not necessary for the investigating committee because a court trial is already in progress." And that's what we say because we've always defended the old boxes and the role of the Ark. We don't doubt it. And when we are in front of a particular case, it is a particular case, and important to say, as we said last week, that the case has been reported by the Arkan himself, and that at this moment a judicial procedure is in progress, and that, so far as this is concerned, it is absolutely unnecessary to open a committee of inquiry, as well as a case which has been given in the private sphere. And because there was an agreement between individual individuals, that was given in private, and because we are in the presence of a personal decision. But what's the matter, Mr. Casanova? Now that we are in the presence of a clear design of gathering, and that it is one of your ends to defile the good name of the Arkbanks, and to give them no stability, and to doubt what has been done, even though you ought to know better than well what is done and all the information is at your disposal. It's very surprising that we should open up an investigating commission at the end of your nose, when things have been well discussed. We, who have said that we respect the thread of this other particular case as a judicial initiative, demand respect for the Arkbanks, and expect to give the result as quickly as possible, let us all know it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u43	Well, I don't admit, Mrs. Gorospe, I'm not going to let you know that he's involved in a campaign for dirtying or damageing the good name of the Rollbox. I don't accept it. A few months ago, in a television program of citizen interviews with political leaders, the president of the PNV, Andoni Ortuzar, was interviewed and questioned by the trap clauses, the ground clauses, and he clarified or, let's say, in an attempt to approach the citizen feeling, said: "That happened to me too! In a mortgage I have I have an abusive clause applied to me!". And he said, "No Kutxabank, hey!". He clarified that he had not applied for the mortgage with Kutxabank. I imagine that Mr Ortuzar would go to the different banking entities and hire the mortgage with the entity that offered him more advantageous conditions in economic terms. Well, I didn't, I didn't, and a lot of people didn't. Many people, when they have to ask for a mortgage, go to BBK, Vital... or go to BBK, Vital or Kutxa with their eyes closed, because it was the country's box and because they were confident that they wouldn't fool him there. And I'm not an enemy of Kutxabank. Mr. Prieto, I'm also a client of Kutxabank, and I asked for the mortgage with my eyes closed and I have the accounts there, the few accounts I have. That's where I work, with Kutxabank, and I don't want it to disappear. On the contrary. I'm telling you, a lot of people go with their bills or mortgages to Kutxabank, with their eyes closed, so far, because there was a trust. I'd come back, if I had to ask for a mortgage or credit, I'd go back to Kutxabank, but I wouldn't go with my eyes closed anymore. That is the problem, that there has been a deterioration of the image. And it hasn't been a deterioration in the image caused by a Bildu campaign. It has been a deterioration of Kutxabank's image caused by Kutxabank's own financial practices. That is the problem and that is the crux of the matter. When it came to thinking that a... Mr. Prieto said: "The whole bank has a social function!". No! No! The function of the bank is to earn money and point, it has no social function. But Kutxabank does have to have a different function than just making money. And not only does it have to reverse the benefits to society through social work, but through financial practice itself it has to fulfil a social function, because its owners so must demand it. And their owners, indeed (I know what the law says), are the banking foundations, but these banking foundations are heirs to the savings banks, legal heirs and moral heirs to the savings banks. Therefore, these banking foundations have to demand that their bank, their bank, perform the original functions for which the savings banks were created. Otherwise, those who are destroying the savings banks are those who are allowing this to happen, there are practices in Kutxabank that do not correspond to that public and social function, and those are those that are really putting them at risk. And they're not EH Bildu. That is why I was telling you, Mrs Gorospe, that EH Bildu has no interest in harming the good name of Kutxabank. On the contrary. And – I told you last week and I repeat it now – who has put a plan on top of the table to destroy the good name of Kutxabank, to destroy the spirit of savings boxes, is, until the opposite is denied and according to what appeared in the press, the current Kutxabank directive itself, when it presents a plan, more or less, with the leitmotiv of more bank, less box; reduce costs, reduce wages (not obviously in its president, but in the whole staff), and behave more like a bank. You can have benefits, you can have benefits, and you can have a different banking practice. In fact, we have repeated it many times, what has made Kutxabank to hold the leadership position that it currently holds is not to defuse more so that through terror to get the credits paid, but to have a different identity, that the citizens trusted in it, that they knew that the boxes (as they knew before, because it was) had a financial activity with meaning, with temptation, with measure, with social responsibility, and that, if there were benefits, a good part of them would go to endowments and another part would revert to society through social work. That's what has given the leadership position to Kutxabank, and not to apply Chicago school theories that seem to apply banking. Of the two schools in Chicago: Milton Friedman and Al Capone, which seem to apply banking to use in the Spanish state. Going that way is what can destroy Kutxabank, and when we are insisting here that a number of things need to be clarified is not to damage the image of Kutxabank, but to the contrary: for citizenship to know that there is a bank that is different, that can be trusted, and for it to maintain that leadership position, and for it to provide financial services on reasonable and affordable terms, to finance SMEs, so that it does not put down clauses, so that it does not evict, so that this country knows that there is an instrument. Because there are 60 billion in assets in that box, a first-rate financial instrument, and this Parliament cannot look elsewhere when things like that are happening there. And one last point, since the issue would give for a long time, but yes, Mrs Gorospe, it was in Kutxa losses, what happens is that he presented some balances that were not correct, and the audit urged him to account for 200 million in a different way and that led to a new accounting in which there were losses. There's the data and there's the auditor's instructions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u44	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord of Damme, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Prieto, Kutxabank is a tax collector... Look, I have an account at the BBV and I assure you that I don't own the BBV for nothing, nor in a small percentage. I mean, this thing about banks being tax collectors, no. In any case, if they were someone's, they would be the founders, who were the ones who put the money into creating the municipal savings box and the provincial savings box, obviously. Another thing is that I like it or I don't like it. Well, I think what's clear is that the debate that was being held was another one. I mean, irregularities... Well, I don't know, the only one we know is the one in court, it hasn't raised any more. And vicissitudes of the fusion process... I don't know why you're so against the South Box, because the South Box has given benefits since the first year. Another thing is that he could have given more, or Mr Fernández thought that he could have earned more money, but when we put forward and talk about the model that is wanted more than once in this Parliament we have said that when you have a market share at a site close to 50% or higher, and all the others compete and you do not compete with them outside, so it is only a matter of time that they will eat you. If you also have the highest salaries, then it is obvious that you are less competitive. If you also have to do everything you propose, then it is very likely that you will lose in a short time. That's so clear. And the only vicissitude that existed in the merger was what we have raised from the beginning. But make sure that maybe the Kutxa gipuzcoana, BBK and Vital would have been interested first in the Bank of Spain, and then buy it as Caja Sur. But then we would no longer talk about Basque citizenship as the owner. Because, of course, how is it possible, as you say, that if one gives losses and others give profits when valuing them and distributing the shares of the bank is done proportionally according to I don't know what? That's the only vicissitude, and we all know it a long time ago, yes, a long time ago. Now, I don't know if you're willing to renegotiate that. Of course, I don't know if they'd be willing to renegotiate that! When you talk to me about evictions, listen, in this Parliament we had this debate before you arrived, and I was bothered to look, in the years of the crisis, year by year, at which entities had evicted more and which entities had evicted less. We have had it here, and there is the data in this Parliament. And it was not Kutxabank, as you have said, which has produced the most evictions in these years of the crisis, but neither by far nor by far. There were amazing data. Do you know what amazing data there was? Well, one of the ones that I'd gotten rid of was Caja Laboral. Since that data was objective, it was so. And another, to his surprise perhaps, and to mine and to anyone's, for they were the Banco Santander and La Caixa. And why? Because, if you look, La Caixa is suddenly one of the most credit-giving entities in the Basque Country, and is eating market share to Kutxabank. And why can La Caixa get rid of more than others? Because it gives you more credit. And why are they going to La Caixa to give them credit? Because maybe it makes them more competitive, I don't know. I know one thing, and it's that, as much as you strive to think that Kutxabank leads to the evictions, listen, no. And it's not the same to be very solvent, Mrs. Gorospe, that to say that the ranking of benefits is headed, because one thing is to be the ranking of solvent and the ranking of benefits. And the profit ranking, I wish, but unfortunately, we don't lead it either.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u46	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee mustn't speak a word. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u47	I haven't seen you, Mr. Casanova. As you first began to ask me a question, a question which I asked you to answer, I asked you a question, but you either don't or you don't want to answer that question. Then I'll ask you again in case he stays. I don't know if you heard me on the first question shift. "No sé si me ha oído believed la pregunta porque la formulao." No, that's the way he formulad it. But in case, because you haven't even mentioned it, we'd like to know what criteria it's following, and the purpose of meeting is that the investigating committee should be formed. You haven't even mentioned it because you won't like the answer. You didn't say so and you said the loss again about the Ark. How will you defend it? How can you say that? How can it be that you're among the first in the Ranking? How can it be, if it's been a loss? No, no. Yes, you say the things you always say in your speech that come from the authority that you have written. "He's suffered a deterioration in his image." Behin bath sarriagotan esan dugu: "Ez". Eta lehengo egunean zuk esaten zenuen "Kutxabank has people's trust". Zeuk exaten Zenuen, konfiantza dauka, nahiz eta zuen ahalegina, zelako ahalegina destigiatzeko. It's been a while. It's been a long time. It does not have that deterioration of the image that you say, despite, Mr Casanova, of your tession in those campaigns of contempt. You've mentioned "efectivaente se puede tener beefifio." Hombre, un banco... I suppose there's gonna be benefits for a bank, won't there, Mr. Casanova? Onures; "se puede" no, se debe tener, porque, si no, what business would it be to have a bank if it had no benefit? And besides, that's just where money comes from, as you know, for social work. So the Arkbank must be useful, he must manage himself, and he must provide good and professional services to users. But what's the matter? Collectings, as we've seen it over and over with the Arkbanks, you've always been playing the part that you've been taking for a long time in the Euskitage, the Lawdang, the Zingle, and the cashier. El part y la funcion de freeno. "Sododes en mormento el frano de Euscadi." You are making Euskadi, that Kutxabank, that the government, that this Parliament, that are vehicles running at good speed..., you are spending all your effort and devoting all your effort, Mr Casanova, to putting sticks on the wheel so that it seems to be a vehicle running with the hand brake cast off. But, fortunately, they fail in their efforts. Fortunately, Mr. Casanova, your sole purpose and aim is this: that this people should have a carriage leading by the brakes, which, fortunately, you will not succeed and you will not succeed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Next, we have discussed the seventh point, and then the sixth. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal of the Socialists of Euscal, as a group of legislatures, is to limit access to the small contracts of the Basque Administration. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Pastor, the Basque Socialist, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u49	Thank you, President. It is somewhat disconcerting and surprising that there is no one from the government today in Parliament attending a full of issues that concern him directly, such as this, but they will finally know what they want to do. Look, the transparency of a government is measured by the speed and clarity with which it responds to requests for information that bother it, made both by citizens and by the opposition. The transparency that is limited to spreading only what is good for the Executive is not such transparency, it is advertising, propaganda or self-bomb, as it is called. What my group brings to this House today has to do with the first sense of what is meant by transparency in public administration, but I will also talk a little bit about the second. As you know, the Government has so far been offering every three months, at the request of the parliamentary groups, information on the minor contracts carried out by the various departments of the Executive and the entities dependent on them, i.e. those awards of goods or services for less than EUR 18,000 (VAT separately) in the case of the General Administration, and less than 50,000 in the case of companies and public companies. It is information that seems important to us to monitor and control the use that the Executive makes of this administrative figure, where the discretion of the Government is greater, where irregularities can be given, such as the fractionation of the contract or customer awards. And not only that: I would like to recall that one of the reasons for drawing up these quarterly reports was to check that it does not give rise to outsourcing of jobs that can and should be done by the staff of the Administration, something in which the unions of public workers have emphasized on numerous occasions. Hence the desirability of parliamentarians being able to have timely knowledge of them in order to be able to carry out their tasks of monitoring and monitoring the activities of the Government effectively. In fact, in this way, and thanks to this practice of quarterly shipments, it was as we learned of the purchase of information in the News Group media, related to the PNV, by different departments of the Government. An unheard of, extremely serious matter, which is in the courts and which, of course, remains politically alive. I put them on record, although I am aware that the rest of the opposition groups have encountered exactly the same obstacle. At the end of last year, specifically in response to the Socialist Group's request for the outsourcing report for the third quarter of 2014, the Public Service Adviser, who is absent today, Mr Erkoreka, responded with a negative routing, because he merely reported bureaucratically that on 29 April 2014 the Governing Council had approved the Agreement approving instructions on good practices in the conclusion of service contracts (that was the curious name of the article in question), and that paragraph 13.3, curiously referring to reports, states that "on an annual basis the Deputy Public Service Adviser will issue a report on the contracts concluded. This report shall be forwarded to the departments and made available to the Governing Council" (closure quotes). What Mr Erkoreka came to say to us, hiding it in part, is that, what you could first know every three months, from now on you would know each year. In other words, information will be provided for the whole exercise at once and at a time when the Governing Council is in favour of giving approval to the above-mentioned report. By the way, as of today, 12 March 2015, we are still waiting for the 2014 report, to which Mr Erkoreka's communication referred, because we have requested it and we have no news about it. It is true that following the public complaint that we made of this attempt to close down information on minor contracts, the Government has attempted to rescind – that is, without notice – it has begun to publish these awards in the Basque Public Sector Contracts Register, and some of the departments – not all of them – have recently surprised us by providing the data that we were denied a few months ago with the excuse of the annual report. I say that some, because in particular Lehendakaritza and Mr Erkoreka's own department, Public Service, have sent absolutely nothing. However, here we are talking about transparency of the good, not of the information that is being misled or pulled out in a bad way as if it were a damaged tooth. For us, and I suppose that for the rest of the opposition groups, it was clear that this change in the Government's course of action had only one purpose: to make it difficult, to hinder, to make it more difficult for Parliament to control its actions, because another explanation or reason does not seem reasonable to exist. And no one escapes that studying at once a huge volume of documents corresponding to an entire year for each of the departments is not the same as doing it every three months. Digesting and processing contracts for an entire year, presented as a block, is at least quite laborious and difficult, especially when, when that memory is delivered, the next year is already started, as is the case for us, ending the first quarter of 2015, and we do not yet have the 2014 memory report. That does not seem to escape anyone, and less the Government, who specifically put that point in the annual report in the new recruitment regulations. And it seems to us that this is clearly an attempt to close down (we do not think of any other qualification), which we denounce at the moment with all roundness and which we want to do again here today, because it seems to us to be a contempt and an insult to this Parliament and also to common sense. When the demand for transparency and accountability in society is greater, the Urkullu Government does the opposite: it tries to shield itself from the knowledge of its contracts. And it also does it in a zafia way and in total contradiction, that is, with the speech that makes us face the gallery. Because propaganda is very good, but then you have to prove with facts what is preached. That is why what we are proposing in this House calls for a correction from the government. And I am pleased to see that this request has found the agreement of the opposition groups in this House, with which I must honestly say that we have had no undue difficulty in achieving a common position. That is why we are talking about principles such as transparency, accountability and parliamentary control, something that this Parliament is basically dedicated to. Principles to which a precious democratic government should not put obstacles. Otherwise, he should be the first interested party that this does not happen. And this government, which presides over Mr Urkullu, has tried to hinder the work of this Parliament, and we hope that today will take this opportunity to rectify. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u50	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing the amendments to the groups that have been established, the representative of the EH Collectors. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u51	Good morning, everyone. As Mr. Pastor has said, this time we propose a discussion about small contracts. This subject, I know, will be small to some, that it may be of little importance to some people, but it is not so. It's not like that at all. On this subject, we are speaking of the manner in which the Government wishes to bring information into the legislature, every member of the legislature. This is the government's practice, which made all of us more easy or more complicated than the work we have to do in the service of society. In those days when transparency and public information are being developed, it's not quite natural to limit information to the legislature by an internal regulation for service hiring. We know that this regulation left what was before, but how is it possible for a regulation to extend the good practices of service, to limit the right of information of the members of the law? Well, it's not possible. Look, transparency is not a fashion, it's not something that makes people look nice. Transparency is exercised. And, therefore, in this case Parliament, the Members of Parliament, we must have the tools and information necessary to carry out our work. And that is what we are asking today: that information on minor contracts be sent to this House on a quarterly basis. It is not possible to consult on one page or the other, for example, in order to know the amount or the amount of a certain contract. The question is, this legislature receives information about small contracts. It is natural that the information of the members of the legislature should be more efficient in a simple manner. Several other documents are actually available on the internet, it's true, and it doesn't take them away from us here in an official manner to receive them. Transparency, that all the citizens are available to the public information can by no means be an excuse for not sending information into this legislature. Let's not open a window while we close another one. We know, we know, and we can clearly tell you that any member of the legislature can have information about public contracts through a question or information request. We know, we know that by means of parliamentary questions or requests for information we can request all those details relating to the public contracts we consider, but that is not the case. It's about taking one more step. It is a matter for the Government, on its own initiative, to send us this information, because there are means to do so. We are in the twenty-first century, and the administration has modernized, and we believe that we also need to modernise the relationship between the Government and Parliament. If the Government really believes in transparency and active publicity of information, here, there is an unbeatable opportunity to put it into practice. It's funny, it's really weird when we've got a law that develops these things when we're on the table, making fun of them, taking measures in the opposite direction. Uncomprehending, really. It is by no means understood that when institutions are extended to society, when the relations between institutions and people are to be facilitated, when we have more tools to expand information than ever, they want to send information to the legislature. That's why, by our corrections, we'd like to send information about minor contracts to the legislature three months, the right of legal information, the administration's transparency, and the job that the legislature has to do. And that's how we do it today in the middle we've signed together with PSE. Because that's our goal today to guarantee our primary goal, our transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Euskal Popula representative. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u53	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Eguerdi on guztioi. I also regret not being able to greet any member of the Government in this kind of debate, which I am sure they would have to learn something. Very briefly, because there are debates that seem to be very simple to resolve, it seems a priori that they are very simple to resolve, and I think this is one of them. Nobody escapes that we live moments – let us say it in a smooth way – especially turbulent, especially needy to project more than an image, if not a reality, but also based on images, that tell the citizen that he can trust his public administrations, that he can trust his institutions, and that both public institutions and administration and politicians have really understood the degree of disaffection, anger and distance, and in any case of distrust also, that the citizens have before the public administration, and that we put all the meat in the roaster – let me say it – to correct that situation. It is not in vain that governments, parliaments, this also – this government and this Parliament will soon debate a law that tends or wants or intends to correct that defect, that distance, as I say – are implementing and promoting such measures. Law 19/2013, known as the Transparency Act, promoted by the Government of the People's Party (I am sorry, but promoted by the Government of the People's Party) and adopted in the Congress of Deputies, speaks expressly in the chapter called "Active Publicity", in particular in its article 8, makes an express reference to the need or suitability to publish quarterly, on a quarterly basis, minor contracts. But also the Basque public administration bill, which we are going to have an opportunity to discuss shortly in this Parliament, also makes a similar reference in its article 88, practically based on that of the National Transparency Act, which is of a basic nature, and makes an express reference also to those three months. Well, so far all reasonable, so far all reasonable: laws of transparency, improvement of public administration, attempt to regain the lost confidence of the citizen in the exercise of politics and in the administration of public money... So far everything's right. Therefore, this rule of the Basque Government is not understood, under which it retreats in transparency. Objectively, he's retreating. It is true that everything or almost everything has an explanation, it is true that everything or almost everything can be explained, and we will certainly hear some explanation of why this setback by the Basque Government in a practice that up to now worked in a correct way. So right, so right, it worked so well, that it allowed this Parliament to debate and be able to affect or better control the government's action, in particular when it comes to awarding certain goods and services through smaller contracts. Now the formula has changed, and it is true that after the initiative put forward by the Socialist Party it has changed again, but that rule has not changed again, that rule has changed definitively. The question, the question I think we should be able to answer today, is why. Another question that I think we should be able to answer today is whether it is necessary, whether it is necessary to have retreated from that practice of transparency, and whether it is necessary that these debates take place at a time when they should be overtaken. Overtaken. That at this stage we are dealing with this type of debate is a powerful call for attention, not because of the responsibility of the proposing group, rather the opposite, but because of the responsibility of the Basque Government. We believe that transparency must continue to be deepened, we believe that the law on transparency at the national level is a useful and effective law, we believe that the draft law on public administration being processed and to be processed in this Parliament is useful and necessary, and we believe that in any case, being benevolent, this change in the attitude of the Basque Government is a profound error when it comes to sending to this Parliament, on a quarterly basis, sensitive information, or in any case useful, for the action of the opposition. We will vote in favour of the amendment that has been made between the Socialist Party and EH Bildu, and we expect an urgent, immediate correction from the Basque Government, because – and forgive for this common place – in addition to being so, it must be said. Here no one projects a shadow of suspicion upon anyone, but let us not allow suspicion to grow or doubt to nest in our hearts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u54	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Ekimen Honen poses mendua was a hasieratik-hasieratik kerra. And we are faced with the clearest example of the so-called journalistic phrase that says don't let reality spoil a good headline for you, but in this case applied to politics. We could also apply in this case another phrase, as is that reality always surpasses fiction. Eta hori diot Pastor jaunak ekimenaren zioan esandako bayeztapen edo salaketa horiek erealitatetik bear urruti daudelako. They can't be further away from reality. It accuses the Basque Government of having adopted domestic legislation on how to conclude service contracts in the Basque administration and of radically changing the regime of access to such information, both for parliamentarians and for the general public. He is referring to the Governing Council's agreement of 29 April 2014 approving the instructions to which we referred earlier. He pointed out that point 13.3 of those instructions stipulated that an annual report would be drawn up on the contracts concluded, rather than reporting quarterly as it had been done at the request of the parliamentary groups. Well, I'll be right when you say that your access to your contract information has changed. That's right, but luckily it was for the best. Porque esto que se c change se, pero se c change a mejor. You stated that you had to dive into the agreement until you reached point 13.3. We do not know whether due to lack of oxygen to dive so much, or because so much underwater pressure caused them some barotrauma that forced them to leave the dive before ending without inspecting the whole piece, the fact is that for some reason they have forgotten to read also the seventh instruction of the agreement in its second point, which literally says the following: "The service contracts concluded by the General Administration and the entities of the Institutional Administration must be entered in the Public Register of Contracts for their advertising and knowledge". Eta horrek zer esan nahi du? Bada, testuak literalki jasotzen duena, hau da, kontratu guztiak, den-denak, erregistroan argitaratuko say it. That is, all, all contracts will have to be published in the Basque Register of Contracts. "Everyone" means that minor contracts will also be published, and we don't understand how you can say that is backwards. Therefore, this Government is publishing on the website of the Basque Register of Contracts all the information that was previously available in the contractor profile, but it will also publish information on minor contracts, which was not done before. Therefore, all these accusations of his, all that he said that this Government has shut down Parliament's access to minor contracts, is nothing more than mere fiction. There is no will to make access to information more difficult, much less to prevent the management or control of small contracts. We do not think it right to talk about closing the information, when what has been done is to open the doors in pairs, to enable an online page where anyone, parliamentary or non-parliamentary, can access all available information on the hiring of administration services. Information from the skuragari dago, erabat, edozein momentutan age edonorentzako. You just have to get on the page of the Basque Register of Contracts, and, rather than dive, we just let it snorkel in the search engine enabled for it. Gobernu honek ez du inoiz kontratue buruzko informaziorik ezkutatu, has gutxiago kontratu txikiei dagokienean. Erregistroan argitaratu beharra ezarri aurretik, eskatzen zen Hebean information osoa bidaltzen zen, inongo ergozpenik gabe. In fact, his group requested it on numerous occasions, and not only quarterly, but also for other periods, and always, they have always been sent all the information. But it is also that a full list of all contracts was also not sent before. Why? Because by law, under the Public Sector Contracts Act, there was already an obligation to publish contracts that were not minor, and that was why a reference was made to the contractor's profile, which was where all that information was published. I would like to give you an example of Lehendakari's response to Idoia Mendia's request for documented information on the recruitment of Lehendakaritza between 8 June and 23 December 2013. In its reply, the Government provides it with the list of all minor contracts awarded and/or formalized by Lehendakaritza between these dates, but points out that the rest of the contracts are published in the contractor's profile. And that was the same thing that had been done with such requests always, also with the previous Government. Now, on the other hand, we already have an online tool where smaller contracts are also published. That is to say, all contracts can be consulted in the Basque Register of Contracts, so we cannot understand that interference in which the Government has to continue to send a report to the House every three months, when any of us or any interested person can have the information they want, updated and instantly. And not only every three months, but with the periodicity you want, with the periodicity you prefer. That is why, in response to the request for information from parliamentarian Gloria Sánchez regarding the recruitment of Lehendakaritza from 22 July to 31 December 2014 (now yes 2014), the answer is that all this information is public and can be consulted on the website of the Basque Register of Contracts, and even the link on the page itself is attached. I was telling you at the beginning of my speech, you are completely wrong about this initiative. It seems to some that they are upset that this Government is taking real steps in the implementation and development of policies that promote access to public information and are advancing in the culture of real transparency and good governance in administrative procurement. The State law on transparency and access to public information states, as Mr Semper has also commented, that the publication of information relating to minor contracts may be carried out quarterly, which is also what has been contained in the draft law on public administration, but here the Government, this Basque Government, for months before its entry into force, has even gone beyond the obligations imposed by the Transparency Act and the draft law itself, because we already have, within the reach of anyone, all information on minor contracts, without having to wait for any report. Therefore, we understand that you confuse barbecues with merinas in this case, when you talk about that the outsourcing report goes from quarterly to annual and states that this will make it difficult to access information on minor contracts, and that it condemns parliamentarians to know that information every year. That's not true. The information is available at any time. Lisa and plainly, what so far could be known every three months can now be known at any time and from anywhere, without having to wait for the report to which you alluded. All it takes is to show something of interest and get into the registry website to type the contracts that everyone wants to look for. And the only difficulty we can find ourselves is just the clumsiness or laziness of each of us to perform the search on our own. That's why, because we're very important to this issue, we vote for our correction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u56	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u57	Thank you, President. Look, Mr Orbegozo, I don't need you to explain to me what the contractor's profile is, because that was a figure who created the former socialist government of Patxi López, to which you, by the way, have given birth by criticising this whole story. I don't think you need to be a sapphire when it comes to intervening, because to defend one's position you don't need to be a sapphire with others. In any case, I continue to maintain in full what I was saying: at the request of this group, the adviser replied to us what he replied to us, and did not submit the required reports. Some have been referred, it is true, after this controversy. Not all of them. No report has been received from the Civil Service Council or from Lehendakaritza in that report. And if, as you say, you have made so much progress in transparency, I do not know what problem you have in making the commitment that this report will continue to come as it has so far on a quarterly basis. I do not think it is at all a hindrance to them, because, as I said earlier in my previous speech, genuine transparency is demonstrated when we have to answer uncomfortable questions, not when we have to make auto-bombs. Because to say, as you always do, that you are committed to active transparency and universal happiness, which is what your amendment comes to say on this point, costs nothing, is free. This is the same thing that Mr Erkoreka announced five months ago, when he presented the project to which you referred to the law of public administration. Among other things, it came to us to say that in the field of transparency goes far beyond state law, because it creates the Basque Transparency Agency and guarantees the access of citizens to public information. And that may be very good, but here, too, we see that it is one thing to preach and another to practice what is said, because, at the same time as the spokesman for the government was taking out the breast by announcing that the bill reduces the deadline for the administration to respond to citizens' requests for information, the same public service adviser was shamefully communicating that the information, which up until now has been received in Parliament, was being closed down to all parliamentary groups on minor contracts. By the way, you know that we have announced that we are going to ask for the return of the Basque public administration bill, because it seems to us to be a bad copy of state law and because it does not deal decisively with the reorganization of the administrative structure or transparency and accountability. Because, how does that active transparency that is announced fit in, and which you include in your amendment to this point, with the attempt to make it difficult for Parliament to work and control the action of the Government? Because we understand that this is all we're trying to do. And, if not, you have the perfect opportunity in your hand right now to decide that this issue should be rectified, and that information should continue to be sent as it has been done so far. Because drawing up an integrated quarterly report (i.e. integrated, Mr Orbegozo) on contracts does no more than do one annual or one monthly report for each of the departments, and we believe that the Government has portrayed itself with this episode as in so many others. And, honestly, we don't think this is going to come out to you for free, unless you are able, for once – which is a good exercise – to correct a mistake and correct it. Because, if not, we will understand that this Government understands transparency as an exercise in propaganda, as happens in so many other matters, where one thing is what the Government advertises and another very different what it does, or what it does not do in many cases. We already know that it is much easier for taxpayers to spend tens of thousands of euros on advertising campaigns for auto-bomb (like the one currently under way, which says nothing) than to address necessary reform that is not addressed and acted decisively and with resources in the face of the most pressing problems of society. There, with that determined action, Mr Orbegozo, is how this commitment to the people you preach is demonstrated. With facts, not with a propagandistic sonsonnet paid with public resources. Of course the executive is going to commit to people! Who are you going to commit to, the cantabrian besugos? And behind that what else is there? The Government has the possibility to get out of the puddle it got into, it's very easy. It is enough to return to the previous situation that Mr Erkoreka told us, and to send back the quarterly reports that were sent to Parliament. And all you have to do is support the amendment that we have agreed with EH Bildu and which the PP has announced will also support, and to which I would like to thank. And the amendment says one thing very simple, Mr Orbegozo, it is nothing complicated: to send back to this House every quarter the reports on the minor contracts it makes, in order to guarantee three essential principles, in our view: the right to information of parliamentarians – which is what we are talking about – and of the citizens to whom we represent; the transparency to which we believe the Administration is bound, and we do nothing but fulfil the role that we have for parliamentarians, which is that of government control.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u58	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. EHGG rep. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u59	Thank you. In fact, it's almost all over, but, yes, I think it's best to clear up some things, I'm aware of my first interference... I don't know, sometimes I think we talk here and nobody hears us, because they come out and what we say is zero. I said you'd go to my first interference and tell us there's a chance of asking for information from the government, and it's true, but I've said it, too, from a government that really believes in an active transparency in my former interference, and the 21st. it is true that society requires more and more transparency, and that the Government must take another step, and that, therefore, we must all pass, and that it is not amiss to bring the information actively into ours. He talks to me again, he talks to me again... Mr Orbegozo tells us about the public record of contracts. That I have read the instructions of the Basque Government, obviously, after searching on the Internet with these little hands, because some of us are able to enter the web and search for information, and we are also aware of the existence of the public record of contracts, but the one does not take away the other. One doesn't take away the other. We agree that the public register of contracts should be opened, and that citizens and all of us as citizens of this Community can access it. But what is the problem with the government sending this information to this Parliament? Because I've already entered that register, and you have to put what you want to look for, what kind of contract, who's the contractor... Yes, but it has nothing to do with it! That it is not a question of clumsiness or laziness, Mr Orbegozo, that I believe there is no need to come down here and call us clumsy and lazy those who we ask the government to bring information to this House! Because I'm clumsy and lazy, I assure you, I'm not. I am not, and I am looking for information, but I believe that nothing happens because the government actively informs this House of the things it does. Moreover, this very week we had with Mrs Gorospe, in the Committee on Finance, an item on information, and we agreed that the Government would give this House information that will be published in a bulletin. But being in the bulletin does not take away so that this House is informed. Because this House gets a lot of documentation that's published on other websites. On the Finance websites, for example, which I personally regularly consult, there is a great deal of information that is on the Finance website and that also comes as information to parliamentary groups (the issue of budget implementation, etc., etc.). So let us open ourselves up to the citizens, of course, the first of us, but from there to closing the door to information for parliamentarians there is a stretch. Yes, the door is closed, Mr. Orbegozo, because they do not want to bring that information quarterly. And there's nothing wrong with bringing the information. If the information doesn't hurt! The information doesn't hurt! It is better for you and better for us, and much better for the work of the Government, that we parliamentarians have that information and we can all do much better service to this citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Sémper, you don't have to participate in words... ? Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u61	Mrs. President, if you'll excuse me, from my seat. At the end of the matter – as I said in the first intervention – is whether this measure of the Government is showing a positive or negative image. By all accounts, it looks like negative. By all accounts, it looks like negative. All the information is published, indeed all the information is published in various documents: in the Official Gazette of the State, in the Official Gazette of the Autonomous Community, in the Official Gazette of the Province, on the websites... Everything. If we gave those publications good, we could really save the requests for documented information, we could save the questions for written answer, even someone could, in a triple mortal leap, say that the oral questions are left in full, because you can ask a counselor in the hallway... Someone could also say that non-law propositions can be left in that triple or quadruple mortal leap, because we could agree on proposals in the offices... I insist, Mr Orbegozo, that I do not want to label this government decision as an attempt to hinder anything, I do not want to. What I do believe is that it is a mistake, we do believe it is a mistake. And governments and institutions move forward in transparency, we said earlier, adopting laws and equipping ourselves with tools that today allow us for example the internet, web portals through which citizens can have access to information, which would otherwise be more complex for them, but the essence of parliamentarianism is also based on that information that governments in a way..., ex officio, if I may say so, refer to parliaments for better control. Is it perhaps a burden on the government and the departments to send minor contracts to this Parliament on a quarterly basis? Well, maybe it's a shambles! Perhaps it is, but it is a burden that only benefits the transparency and better control of this Parliament over the action of the government. I insist, we believe that it is a mistake, that was enough, that it is better to send that information every three months than every year. Because, if not, why is it referred every year? Don't you ever send him away! It doesn't make sense, it's an incoherence. We will therefore vote in favour of the compromise amendment, trusting that the Government will rectify this order, that all it does is, in any case, project a shadow of suspicion and open a debate that we could have saved ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u62	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u63	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. You said the movement isn't a mod. It's true, it doesn't even have to be a bad excuse. It's not easy to query on the web page or find information in a simple way, that's how it is done. But what is transparency: You're asking me to send you a report every three months when everybody's available in the way they want it, and when they want it? All you can see is that this initiative is not about guaranteeing transparency. It's an initiative that, in the end, it's about throwing wood at the Basque Muncher that's crazy about it. About the quarterly report, perfect, no problem! There's really no problem! But it is absurd that we are talking about e-government, zero-role in the administration, and we are working on the fact that the Basque Government has to forward to this House information that everyone has available at any time and as they please (three months, two, one week, four months..., whatever you want). We are not talking here about transparency, it is not what you really asked for in your original initiative, Mr Pastor. It's not what you asked and then it's picked up in this transactional. You are part of a false assertion to build an argument that will serve you once again to stir up this government. That's what's going on here, with the connivance of the rest of the groups! That's what's going on! I remind you that your initiative was on limiting access to information on minor contracts. You spoke of Mr Erkoreka's answers, which had denied information on minor contracts. If I have both the questions, the requests for information, and the answers here! In 2013, which made the same request for information as in 2014, it is answered, the relationship of minor contracts is forwarded, because then there was no Basque registry, there was no obligation to publish them, and then the rest of the information is forwarded... Contracts that are not minor are published in the profile of the contractor. You admit that, don't you? We've reached 2014. The Basque Government does not refuse to give that information, the only thing it does is that now all that information you want, all that information, that relationship of minor contracts, is already available, is already available, and sends it to the website of the Basque Register of Contracts. That I, by the way, have done the job before and said, "Let's see if this is true, let's see if this really works," and in a minute I pulled out the minor contracts that were being requested here, from June 2014 to December 31, 2014. In a minute, here, everything: status, contract title, awardee, amount... Everything, in a minute. And not only that, but I have also looked for smaller contracts from January 1 to today. One minute, one minute! That is why I say that we are not talking about transparency here; we are talking about something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u64	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Number of points in theme list: "Punciation of the Assiduity of the legislatures, to universalize the aids of the treatment, and to facilitate the entrance of them. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Ubera, the representative of the EH Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u65	Thank you, ma'am. And, well, first of all, say hello to the pensioners and to all the work they're doing and thank them for remunciating the health rights of all the people. The topic we are talking about today is not new, repaying, which others understand as a cup, and we have often brought to this house to find a solution for the health of the health of the health of the health of the health of the health of the health of the health of the health of the health of the health of the healthy as a whole, and all the citizens of the community must have all the services of health within care, and all those which we have hitherto had, the minimum being harquebussible, which is what we are asking, e. What we're asking is that the minimum of respect and support for this house and for fun, with the decisions we could have made here because we're together, we could take, with simple resolutions, make a lot of strides, even in the health of our citizens, to give us a retrospectation of the reductions we've been given to our fellow-citizens. Of course, a majority is required for this, and a political will is required for that. And we have it and that's why we insist on it in this house again and again. I shall confine myself to treatment and medicine in the access we are to be our fellow-citizens, though the fact that the Act of the Act of 16/20 Kings Decret reduces so many other health rights, and, moreover, in an impudent manner reduces the gradations between the people, and hinders them from access to the public health system. This is the usual practice of the Spanish Government: the wood of the poor, oppressed by the rights, condemned to the corners, in the end for the sake of a few, making the right of health a privilege; the government of the elites, which is the division, the division, the breach of the people, the increase, and increase. That's the policy of the lords of Madrid. But what's your policy? You guys break into the same bag as the lords in Madrid? It's the same policy as the lords in Madrid that you're trying to practice? If Madrid commands you, you lower your ears and put your hands into your pockets to save a few coins and repeat a mandra for "persons" but when you share them, when you see that you share them before people in the world with the default economy of Madrid? I don't doubt that today, it seems to me, you can't doubt that we all want to abandon what we know as a decree from the offering, and that's our goal. But we are not in the hands of those who are here to derogate this royal decree; we are not in the Congress of Madrid, but in the legislature, and unfortunately, what Madrid decides affects us and harms the Basque society. As far as that goes, I think we all agree. But then, before this, what shall we do: Are we ready to stop with our hands crossed or start some measures? It's obvious there are different levels here. For example, we don't have a problem getting into a confession with the Madrid government. We don't have a problem with that, but we're aware that we don't have a majority here for that. And considering this, the planning which we have brought with us has hitherto been very pragmatic, we have not at once proposed instigation, though we would have no difficulty in doing so. And the planning we've made isn't nobedodes. For instance, it has been proposed that the assistance of preserving the treatments taken by the EAJ has been extended to all the people. That's how we get the local population to eliminate the remuneration influence and turn back the damages of the population. For our aim is how we make ourselves the rights of our people's health to support the rights of their health, to facilitate and improve our peoples, no? And what happens now? It's a complicated transfer to access these subsidies to a few of them, and they're difficult to get access to them. They have no conveniences. And we've seen that. We've seen what's going on all the time that these helps have been made. And in a gathering here we had the pensioners at the Board of Health, and they also proposed to us on the table, e.g., to help us to do this transfer to help us, and our party placed it on the table, but we had not been successful, so far we had not been able to give an effective answer to the demands made by the people in this house. And today we make another attempt, and what we propose is either to use the health card or to adapt it or to attach a measure to the treatment by a health card, so as to facilitate the access to those collectiveities. This is not our last aim, but we have seen the situation necessary, in order to reach the great point of step by step. We don't need to remember that these subsidies are directed to elderly people. Amongst men of age we find very different states: the state of dependence, solitude, some have no help to make so many transfers, and so on a long one. Here we find those who are unemployed and are not ready, and we find those who do not receive the RGI-are very weak collective, so that our goal should be to think and determine how we help them. And that's the point of our proposal to the whole meeting today, and that's what we've been trying to do. For if we see in all this time in the tramitation of these scholarships, acquire, what data has been, or what results have been, they are very remarkable; and we see that we do not do something right in the course of tramation, or in the course of the course of treatment, because they do not reach all the people who should arrive at it. I remember the first time that the Medical Department said it was the purpose of arriving at the 546.374 people, who received 18 million Euro in the budget. What did we see? Well, in the end, he's only come to 125,000 people. And it's just an estimate, because we haven't got the last data yet, and we've asked for them, but we're told that the medical department's only been used around 10 million euros (18, 10 million euros). And then, see, a hundred out of 500,000 people. And we've seen what happened: The game that has been reduced to these issues in 2015 has been reduced. Then what are we doing? Do we want to help the citizens? Do we want to guarantee the right to health? Or do we really want to apply the restrictions, the ones Madrid sets, or those restrictions that suggest, we're happy? Are we comfortable? Then I think we have a responsibility, and our responsibility is to guarantee the health of the people, to help them reduce the restrictions, and to help them improve things really. And the facts show that the government, the Medical Department, has not been able to get the goal that he started with, and that there are flaws and that these mistakes must be improved. It's obvious. And, in conclusion, if we have been clear of our aim, we have been prepared to take another step in these improvements, in order to get the majority of our demands in this Cama, and finally to give an answer to the complaint which we receive from our fellow-citizens, because our object is clearly to make a more easy life for our fellow-citizens, to provide better aids, and, as I have said before, to guarantee health, as I have said before. It's up to us. This isn't a Madrid thing. We could do a lot here. We could make our decisions, and we ought to take answers to our society. We're going to be determineized and not looking at Madrid, in the end, the state of all the people, and even the public health system, we'd be much better off if we'd make our decisions here and we'd look at our society. And I must say, with all your rights and the effort we've done for all the teams, we finally agreed with the Social Party. The agreement that we've reached has five points, and I'll read the fourth point, because it seems to me that the government can handle a road from this point. I'll read Spanish: "Parliament urges the Department of Health, until measures are put in place to repeal and deactivate retaliatory measures, as a first step, to seek through the health card, before the end of this session, a measure to facilitate access to support for adherence to treatment and thus improve the complex procedure applied to date, and to ensure that this information is accessible in places where prescriptions are prescribed and medicines are issued." To invite the eubertarians to add them to this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing the crews who are running the corrections, Mrs Garrido, representing the Basque Potula Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, congressmen. I'm not going to say good morning to the government, because there's not even the president at this moment or the department directors, they're not here right now. Again, in this debate, though it is not that title, we are talking about the glass, it is clear that the intervention made by Mrs. debeka Ubera. Once again we are talking about the copayo, new criteria of the pharmaceutical copayo, because the copayo pharmaceutical already existed before the Government passed Royal Decree-Law 16/2012 of 20 April 2012 on urgent measures to ensure the sustainability of the national health system and to improve the quality and safety of its services. And I say that we are again talking about co-sponsorship, despite the fact that the title of the original initiative talks about the universalisation of support for adherence to the treatment and facilitation of its accessibility, which I believe is an interesting issue and an issue which also deserves specific treatment in the Committee on Health and in the debates. But, as I say, we have not spoken much, or at least in the first intervention Mrs Ubera has not spoken much about adherence to treatments. Al fina de mi intervención sí mecentrare en custión, pero... At the beginning of my first interaction, I mean that it is necessary to regulate the measures which guarantee stability in the welfare system, and to maintain the protection of the people always. And the People's Party government, through the actual decree-law mentioned, has done what it has done is to arbitrate concrete measures to ensure the sustainability of health, always preserving the right of citizens to health protection. It should be remembered that the health system was at risk, with a debt of EUR 16 billion. It was therefore necessary to take measures to shield public health from the effects of the economic crisis. Economic crisis that was highlighting or revealing the weaknesses and shortcomings of the national health system. Krisi ekonomikoak gure systemren ahuleziak agerian utzi zituen, age horregatik ezinbestekoa zen neurriak hartzea. The objective of the measures implemented was to maintain and ensure public health, one of the pillars of the welfare State. And it must be remembered here that we have one of the public health systems most valued by citizens and one of the best health systems. Through this decree-law, the Spaniards have guaranteed the recognition of the right to health care, and a single procedure has been established. The concept of insured has been regulated, and possible situations in which a person can be found are defined. Progress in the universalization of public health care is therefore clear. Kopago berri beats irispid berriekin. A new co-sponsorship has been established. He hasn't set up a cot or a repose, no. It is that there was already a pharmaceutical co-op, because in this country it was already paid to buy medicines. What has been established is a new co-sponsorship based on criteria that have made the system more just, more supportive and more equitable, because new criteria have been established according to income, degree of illness and age. Both injustices of the previous system have been corrected. Aurreko systemren hainbat injustizia zuzendu dira irizpide berri hauekin, because new collectives have been incorporated as exempt, who previously had to pay their share for medicines. In particular, I am referring to the long-term unemployed without benefits, who previously paid 40% of the medicines, and with these new criteria put in place by the People's Party Government, they went on to pay zero when they paid 40% of the medicines before. Therefore, it has been tried to protect, in a scenario of economic crisis, the most vulnerable groups, the groups that were experiencing it worse, such as pensioners, long-term unemployed, as I say, who were not previously exempt and now chronically ill... And the ultimate goal of the reform is to preserve and guarantee the right of all Spaniards to universal, free and high-quality public health. Erforma honen helburua gizarte osăurăn osasun publiko unibertsal, dohainezkoa eta kalitatezkoa bermatzea da. Following this decree, the Basque Government adopted its own decree, which was appealed by the central government, which was suspended, and we have finally learned how the suspension of the specific articles referring to the new criteria of the pharmaceutical copayo has not been lifted. It must therefore also be said that the Constitutional Court has spoken clearly on this issue, and has pointed out that it is a State competence to regulate the criteria, in this case the new criteria for pharmaceutical provision. Then I must also say that we all know the savings figures that are enabling these measures, which at the same time are leading to the incorporation and financing of more advanced and innovative medicines into our system. But I was saying that even though the topic of the co-sponsor has been – and was the intention of this initiative – I am going to refer to the specific issue of adherence, because I think it is an important issue. And speaking of adherence, as specified by the World Health Organization, we are talking about the extent to which patients comply with the instructions given by doctors to deal with diseases, and that therapeutic failure is a matter of relevance to clinical practice, and that, therefore, should be addressed not only from the point of view of prevention, but also from the perspective of intervention once detected. Less therapeutic adherence, worse health and higher expenditure on the health system. Recently, in a few days on adherence to treatment at the Royal National Academy of Medicine, held in November, if I remember correctly, some conclusions were reached and some data were also stored which I believe are very significant and which I bring to this debate. There is a study by the European Economic Community which amounts to 125 billion euros and 200,000 deaths the impact of non-adherence to treatments in a correct way. In Spain, if we extrapolate this data, we would talk about 10.5 billion euros and 10,000 preventable deaths if adherence were concrete. It was also concluded that no chronic pathology achieves 60% of adherence, or that around 50% of patients do not comply with the medications provided by the specialists (absorption cases, treatments that have been abandoned by patients for some time because they are better off). Therefore, from the People's Group, and in this regard, we have tabled our amendment, in order to place duties on this executive and to deepen the measures relating to improving adherence to the prescribed treatments. We believe that there is a need to influence those factors that lead to therapeutic failure, such as the side effects of medicines, such as the lack of understanding of the messages given by professionals, or the forgetfulness to which he referred earlier. Therefore, there are some recommendations with which to improve health outcomes and optimize resources in each pathological process, such as narrowing the links between physician and patient, simplifying the prescription of treatments, improving the information offered to patients themselves and their families about their disease, and periodically monitoring the degree of compliance with prescribed treatments. We believe that we are facing a major public health problem, which has a direct impact on the quality of life of patients and also on health expenditure. That is what we have reflected in our amendment, but we see that, once again, in this House, that party which seems to be promulgating once again the submission on a very specific subject, for it is accompanied by the Socialist Party of Euskadi, and among them they have signed a transaction that we are obviously not going to sign. It calls for the withdrawal and repeal of this royal decree-law, which, as I say, has the approval of the Constitutional Court and which has substantially improved the system. Because, in relation to the new criteria laid down, the system is therefore more just, more equitable, more supportive; injustices that were previously very clear have been corrected, such as the fact that unemployed people without benefits have to pay 40% of medicines, which they do not now pay, and income criteria have been taken into account, which we believe is very supportive, taking into account the incomes of different people when paying for medicines, as well as the collectives who have to be exempt. We will therefore vote against this compromise amendment and defend the amendment put forward by the Group of the European People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u68	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u69	President andrea, legebiltzardeok, gentlemen of the government in absentia... We have tabled an amendment to this non-law proposal of the parliamentary group EH Bildu and we have tried to make an agreement between the three groups that we agree on a basic thing, which is in the rejection of Decree 16/2012, of measures called "rationalization" and which for all others are of rights cuts. Ms. Garrido said that she was legally endorsed by the Constitutional Court. For you know, Mrs Garrido, that you are politically rejected by all the other groups in this House, in addition to all the opposition in Madrid. It has not finally been possible to reach an agreement between the three groups, but we insist that we must use all our capacity for self-government to deal with these cuts, as the Patxi López Government has already done, and that it has now become a joint claim by the entire opposition in Spain (political opposition, of course, Mrs Garrido). Because all the opposition, with the PSOE at the head, has united to claim the annulment of the exclusion of persons for administrative reasons, which is what meant the exclusion of those in irregular administrative situations. We also faced that from Euskadi with an alternative decree, and the Constitutional gave us the reason. He told us that it was not only an unfair measure, but that it also affected everyone's health, and that it did not mean the savings with which that exclusionary measure was to be justified. And again all the opposition in Spain, with the PSOE at its head, is committed to eliminating also the drug. Here that was attempted by the Patxi López government with its alternative decree, and we are waiting for a response from the Constitutional that we still do not have. And that is what the socialists promoted from the very beginning: to alleviate all the negative consequences of that decree. This proposal of ours, the one that proposed the compensation and that we recorded in December 2012, was agreed with EH Bildu and rejected by the majority of the House. Today EH Bildu is also with us, and at first he had proposed something else, but we have achieved a minimum of agreement. They are not maximalists like those posed by EH Bildu, they are of different level, and we agree again in an agreement. Again, in compensation to the cohabiting party, it was very difficult to change the Government's mind. It was one of our Malaysian drops, to say the least, because we had to insist on different ways until the government, whether for government needs or for being in a minority, accepted the compensation. And we made budgetary use of that parliamentary mandate so that what happens with other agreements in this House, which is that the government takes them for inventory, did not happen. Our goal was not the widespread compensation offered by Bildu, because what the socialists want is the repeal of the 2012 decree. We already know that this cannot be achieved here, it has to be in the Spanish Parliament. We'll wait until November. Nor are we satisfied with how the Government is adapting compensation to the co-payer, because, as the representative of EH Bildu has rightly reminded us, it should reach more than half a million people and barely reach 100,000. We are concerned that there are people who do not currently have access to the aid and who may dispense with the medicine because they do not know that they have that right. That is why we insist that the Department of Health should strengthen specific information in this area, rather than continue to fund empty campaigns of commitment to people. No, no, The commitments to the people in this case have to be made. Our insistence is reflected in today's agreement, in anticipation of the pending debate in committee that we had raised. I move that we keep alive our non-law proposal. And we do so because we have already carried out this mandate last year and we have not seen the Government's effort. So let me remind you that after this debate we will continue to remember that your obligation is to carry out campaigns that inform citizens, not propaganda campaigns full of good words and empty of content. And we also believe, and we share with the proposer, that access procedures should be simplified as much as possible, that electronic systems should be used to filter people who are entitled to this aid on the basis of their income, and not to force them to do paperwork. That is, whether it is the electronic prescription, the TIS or any other method is a matter for the government, and it is not worth an excuse. This Executive has assumed to communicate even by whatsapp with its administrators. Imaginative efforts should therefore be made to ensure that people with physical, psychological or economic difficulties do not have to waste time to give them back what is their right, be it eight euros or eighty. So we've finally come to a good deal. It is not new, because it collects proposals that have already been approved and that this Government is carrying out push-ups, as is usual. That is why it is necessary to reconsider. The truth is that initially EH Bildu proposed going further. We didn't agree. We do not think that we should extend the aid so that we can be paid by parliamentarians, for example, or by people with resources, who can give us back what we have been able to spend on pharmacy..., we do not agree. It doesn't seem like a progressive measure to us. What we believe to be progressive is to talk about the universalization of health, of the right of everyone to health, and thus to access the medicines that have been prescribed for us. But not the universalization of aid also for those who do not need it. The transaction renews that opposition (it does not raise the objection, Mrs Garrido). It also reiterates the express rejection of the decree imposed by the drug company, which seemed to be the initial concern of the PNV, the rejection of what is coming from Madrid. Yes, we share that rejection, as I said at first, but there is much more to be done here, and I do not see the same effort by the PNV parliamentary group to put pressure on Mr Darpón. We have also drawn attention to the PP amendment, which talks about taking appropriate measures to ensure adherence, and here it has pointed out a number of factors that may interfere with adherence to treatment. All kinds of reasons, except economic ones. That's all right, Mrs. Garrido. Above all, make use of this measure yourself. Make the request to your Minister of Health, with whom I believe you have customary and direct treatment, and to repeal that decree. The same thing that you have rectified in the hospital co-op and that you have rectified with the treatment of hepatitis C. There is no better guarantee of adherence to treatment, Mrs Garrido, than that there is not a single person who has to think if he pays (or advances in the case of Euskadi) a euro of the medicine he needs. Tell it to Minister Alonso, who in Euskadi, also in the Alava he represents in Congress, is trying to cover the people that this ministry has left out. And that's not a ballast for public arks; it's just a right. Until April 2012, we had a guaranteed public health system for all citizens, which upheld the right to the protection of the health of all. To annul that decree and return to that point would be a correction that we would all appreciate, need or not access to public health. And today it is a finding that that decree of 2012 was unjust and ineffective. And as long as Rajoy remains unheard, the Basque Government must step up its efforts to ensure that no one is excluded from their pharmacological treatment for economic reasons. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief, good morning to all. As we know, the Medical Department started the new co-paying system in July 2013. We said from the beginning that we didn't agree with this change, and, as we said in April 2012, we're still the same. We don't agree with that new system, and we don't have the problems to say that we protected them against the new measures that the Christmas before took care of them, and we don't have a problem to tell them that. It's true that M. M.M. was appealing to the Constitution Court and that it would lead its course. But it's true, too, that the Constitution Court finally forced him to set up this new Eucomunciation system. In that sense, we believe it's allowed to confirm or confess, even if it was necessary to satisfy the principle of legal certainty, it was necessary that the new composition system should have been put in our own Autonomy. It is true, however, and, as the chief physician Darpón said at first, he would attempt to make this new system as little damage as possible to the people. And from the very beginning of our party, even at the very beginning of this law, we declared that this was our principal care and our desire. Hence I would remind myself, that, unlike the other autonomys in other communities, so many measures have been taken in ours; for instance, this compensation, which was introduced a year after the rest of the world. But in addition to that, the citizen who developed the computer system or the Department of Goods, in order not to need money to be paid for, because what was here at the game, that is to say, not to hurt the purchase capacity that the weakest of the citizens could bear. That's why I'm saying, Mrs. Roncal, that we've always maintained that people who have but little economic resources have a right to their treatments, which we said from the very beginning. So the Medical Department accepted the scholarship system, and it's already returned to a number of people with the money they had or had to pay for. Even more, as we know, the new term for scholarships is also open. After January, the health department will also lead those subsidies, and so we believe that the commitment to Christmas is complete and that it's obvious. It is true, at first, that the measure was designed or thought for a person of five hundred thousand and one thousand. So far they have not asked for many, but many of the people, many of whom are really in need, have already introduced the order. And as we said, our team is very clear that no one should stay in our HR because they can't afford medicine, and I think they're doing it for fun. As I said, it's significant or significant that Euskal Autonomy is the only one who's accepted these financial aids all over the state. No other autonomical measures have been allowed in the society of society, or the Socialist Party responsibilities, and I believe that it is remarkable or significant; and therefore our party is desirous of expressing this action a complete privation. We clearly see, that when critics are constructive, they are welcome and worthy of consideration, and may be useful in proposing or improvements between groups of constitutive improvements. But it is true also that we must consider in this case the principle of legal security, especially when the Constitution Court has also pronounced the sentence, and the subject is in courts. So we vote for the initiative that we're presenting. As has been repeated several times, we argue the measures imposed on the Spanish Government on one side in the health area. We believe, moreover, that our natural health of the Emancimic Autonomy did wrong when the king's decree came into force. And so we ask if you're mad as he's doing so until now, let him continue to use all the political, legal, economic resources he has in his hands to guarantee the health rights of all the citizens as well as he can. That's where I think we're sharing with the teams you agreed on the middle course. We don't protect EH Collect's initial initiative. We don't agree with what he said in the statement. We don't agree with these expressions. We can't say that Madrid has suggested and made it fun of the measures taken by the Decree King 16/2012. That's not true. As has been said, the Court of the Constitution established this very duty. He set it to AKMIL to change the billing system. We don't think it's an honest attitude to make statements like that. We don't think he's doing any good to the builders who're supposed to be among us. In fact, there is still the resource which has been entrusted to the Constitution courts. That's going its way. We don't think it's any good when you say it's all right, Mrs. Ubera, Madrid commands and lowers his ears. We don't think it's right to say it's decent or legitimate. For, as we have often mentioned before, who gave the first step to apply co-operation in the historical territory of Gipulia? And that's what I'm telling you, not to insist on the Gipulia thing, but because it has the right influence on the settlement. It was the first step that the Aldudia, the Ogage, sent information to Social Security in order to apply a settlement, in order to apply that new system. And that was November 2012, which is when you weren't making a new Christmas yet. So we think it's not right and it doesn't do any good for the builder. Besides, I think, and I'll tell you again, I'll read you once more about Mrs. Franco's question about the settlement, why this information was sent to her that the new composition system was sent to her, and she said it was because that's how the law ruled. We do not think, therefore, that in this answer there is any resolution of confession, but as always, that when it is proper for one to do so, the law ought to be done, and that the wood should be distributed in proportion to others. And that's all we see today in this EH Collect's planning. It's free to say it, but then there's a lot of room for action from words. And we won't protect the proposal you've made, because we think we have to deal with responsibilities in such significant matters, and the measures you've taken cannot be compromised, because these are very important to people who really need them. We don't agree with the point where it says it's a complex procedure now. We believe that this is not the case; the procedure is more facilitated amongst others, the procedure used by most of them, and therefore only requires a request to be supplied by a request sheet, a normal request page, identity and the account number. And besides, those who have first requested money, not even the stream of accounts, must not put them in; only carry out the identity card, fill it up and introduce it. That's all you have to do. We do not, therefore, agree when we say that the procedure is complex and complex, and that the procedure is difficult. So we're going to make our own correction, because we think the health department and the fun are taking all the measures that are available to him and making the most effort to ensure the health of the weakest of the people. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u72	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing on the day of the answers, representative of the EH Collectors. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u73	I'll start with Mrs Garrido. The funny thing is that it's always curious to hear from some people that the systems that protect the local rights are in danger. You always use the same excuse to apply reductions to all rights, social policies, health... And this time it's the same. That's right, there's nothing wrong with anything else, and money is stolen, everybody's money, and we finally see what's the priority and what's the policy of elites. In addition to today, what we've only asked for is to return to the old situation, Mrs. Roncal, I'm not asking you to go back to the situation that was not there before, but to go back to 16/2012 Decree. Then we're just asking to keep our health safe, at least to respect and defend them. For here, in the course of the last few years, the principles of public health are daily dissolved; Universality, Equity, and Well, too, is also said by Garrido, "The public system of health, that goes, universal, Equity." Well, please, what is that? I don't think it's very bad taste, I wouldn't even mention freeness, and I think it's really very bad taste to hear it from the Big Party's mouth. And we're not going to look at Madrid. I'm not going to look at Madrid. Our object is to give an answer to euscal society, to the Basque People, and to make decisions here. We should make our decisions here, and here we have not proposed to disobey the law at any time. What we're proposing here is how we use the tools that we use to deal with those who are also applied to us. This is what we propose, and to secure the right of health and ease of their lives in common with the people. And in this case, what we plan on is not at all novel, and the planning which we have brought with us up to this point has gone on that direction, Mrs. Roncal. And it's just funk, and that's the instrument that helps to keep treatment. We're not asking for help to universalize, that wouldn't be forward, Mrs. Roncal. It's what we're planning, we have this tool right now, this tool is effective and it can be used to recover the principle of universality that has been torn. And so, by the way, we recregate the remuneration. That's what we're planning: let's think about it, think about it. What instrument do we have? How can we use them? It is possible that what has been applied to some of the collectives may be applied to restore the rest of the people to the state of 2011. Or didn't you? And today, too, seeing that the access to these helps is not easy, that it's complicated, and that there's difficulties, because we're looking at it every day, and it's confirmed by the facts that cheers you up, it's what we're planning, we're going to use your health card and try to avoid it. We were very pragmatic, very pragmatic. And it is not the first time that we bring this proposal to this house, and now we shall have two ends, and shall be upon it: one, which will be admitted today, is the use of that medical card, that is, to avoid the complicated transition which we have not mentioned at the present day; and the other, which we have not mentioned at present, but which is present, because they have been excluded from the sum of exchange and the sum of four hundred and four figs, and from the social system of medicine, and have several difficulties in their daily life to obtain these necessary medicines. Then let's look into it, because we should put those medicalities into our protection system. So pragmatic, and I think, if we have any political will to decide here, we shall insist on this and continue to place several proposals on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u75	Well, look, Mrs. Roncal. Some of your group are going to be glad again that I named Mr Zapatero, but one of the gifts of the previous President of the Government of Spain, in terms of debt and deficit, was EUR 16 billion of debt in the health system. So, there has been a courageous government that has taken the necessary steps to fix the misadjustment that you also left in the national health system. Sixteen million euros of debt is said soon, but that was the legacy we received from the Socialist Health Party. And that is why we had to take measures, courageous measures, but measures, at the same time – and you know it very well, because you know the subject, or should know it – that safeguard the rights of the weakest and protect the most vulnerable. This is why new criteria are established in the pharmaceutical copayo. Because the copago already existed. You say it here. It seems that the pharmaceutical copayo is established for the first time! Here in this country we have always paid for medicine! What is done is to establish new criteria according to the income, the degree of illness and the age of a person, which make the system, as I say, more fair. Because is it not more fair to establish new criteria of co-payment according to the income of those pensioners whom you, by the way, frozen the pensions? Or do all pensioners have to pay the same? It is that with you all pensioners paid the same, and we established criteria of progressive in the copay, so that it is paid according to the income. Or is it fairer for long-term unemployed unemployed people with you to pay 40%, as was the case with you? It is that with the government of the Socialist Party, Mr Zapatero's government, the long-term unemployed without benefits paid 40%, and now they do not pay 40%! Therefore, the system is much fairer. Of course, there are people who pay something they didn't pay before, but depending on the income, depending on the age and the degree of illness, which is precisely what is done... Look, look, there's not a lot of countries in Europe, because in many countries in Europe, which you also know well, you pay for healthcare, for going to the doctor, for requesting a diagnostic test, for requesting a specialist consultation... That is why health care is paid for in Europe! In Spain, health care is universal and free of charge and of quality, and this is what this Government is trying to guarantee. Look, ladies and gentlemen, 3,700 tons of containers were thrown at the SIGRE, into the trash. That's what was thrown away by medicines: millions and millions of unopened containers. We all have and we've had in our homes, and that's how it is... Mrs. Roncal, just like you were the only one, but if we go to each other's homes we see expired medicines and unopened medicines. Well, look, too, what this government has done is to prescribe the appropriate doses for treatments, which was something that had to be done. And look, because of the negligence of Mr Zapatero's government, he stopped applying and adapting a directive to Spanish legislation, and they stopped billing a billion euros every year for giving health care to people who abused Spanish health care. Because the health card conferred rights, gave rights to the future, and therefore a person simply with having the registration had the health card, and if he was a foreigner, he went to his country of origin, and then that invoice paid Spain. And that does not happen in the rest of the countries of the European Union. Therefore, what has been done is a reform according to the criteria already in force in the rest of the European Union. Look at the Constitutional Court's car! There is Order No. 239/2012 of 12 December 2012 which maintains the suspension of Article 8(1) and (2) of Decree 114/2012 of 26 June 2012 on the system of health benefits of the National Health System in the field of VAC. It is true that initially, you know, when an appeal of these characteristics is filed it is suspended, and article 8 was suspended, but it is that then there was a car, which is what I am telling you, that keeps the suspension of that particular article. It is true that it raises others, but in relation to the copayo it maintains the suspension, and it says very clearly that it is a state competence and that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country there has no competence. Unrighteous, ineffective... I think I've told you quite the opposite: more just, more effective, savings have made it possible to finance new medicines and incorporate innovative treatments, 750,000 new health cards, 100,000 people who are not Spanish, who are foreign... In short, therefore, a courageous government, which, in order to remedy the stalemate left by Mr Zapatero, with EUR 16 billion in debt, has taken steps to ensure the sustainability and future viability of the national health system. I regret that you once again come from the hand of EH Bildu, who has clearly defended in this rostrum today the indifference in this matter. I regret that a party that stands up... well, we don't often know what the Socialist Party stands for at state level, but that it is a party in principle at state level, goes hand in hand and clearly proclaims the inference in this matter, as you are going to do here today by signing this agreement and this compromise amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u76	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u77	Mrs. Garrido, I don't know if it's been the eyes or the ears, but nobody here has defended the intrusion. No one has defended the intrusion. And the Socialist Parliamentary Group has not signed any compromises. Because we believe that the democratic thing is to comply with the laws, and when we do not like to change them, and so we have told him that it will happen after November. When there is a change of government, the whole opposition of the Spanish Parliament has decided, has agreed to amend and annul Decree 16/2012, which, in your opinion, has given so much money to the system, that system that Zapatero spent because it prescribed every day thousands of drugs so that in the houses there would be made and there would be kits and all those drugs would have to be thrown away. It's just that Zapatero was a drug dealer! Of course, that pharmacy was sometimes the government of Valencia, the Autonomous Community of Valencia, in which Zapatero did not run. Or Murcia, or Extremadura, or Galicia, or Asturias, or Madrid and Castile-La Mancha. You have been forgotten the small detail that health is transferred, and that spending is done by the governments of the autonomous communities. So Zapatero didn't spend a single euro on health. Now, you say that this decree was made to support the system, but then you have supported it so well that it gives it to finance the new medicines, for which it has had to be the former minister, and now this minister, denounced in all possible legal and political forums for discrimination against the sick groups. Don't tell me that money and savings are going to be used to fund hepatitis C, because we've already seen the problems that have been generated in the patient group, and how much they're feeling and how many patients with advanced hepatitis C are dying from not receiving treatment. So you don't put medals here, you don't have a government. Finally, as I say, we wish we had reached an agreement between the groups that in this House reject Decree 16/2012 for unfair and ineffective, both things. It has not been possible, but I would like to ask the parliamentary group of the Basque Nationalist Party, because, with the figures in hand, 18 million that are budgeted for the first year for support for adherence to treatment are spent only 10, and because of the right collective, about 500,000 people, only 100,000 have benefited. Something is not done right, or something is likely to improve. We must take some step, and not keep in the complacency that we are the only ones who do it, we are the only ones who make up for it. It is true, and I recognize you, we are the only ones who compensate, but we have to compensate more, we have to compensate better, and we have to take steps to ensure that all people who are entitled to this support for adherence to treatment do not stay... Because it is true that they will be on the website, it is true that they will be in Zuzenean, but most of the group of people affected will neither go to Zuzenean nor send their demands by email. We have to make the procedures easier. You say it's very easy. Indeed, probably for all of us here it is very easy, but for the group it is primarily aimed at, it is not so easy, and there is nothing but looking at the data. It's not that easy. If there's a 500,000 right to access only 100,000, something needs to be done to improve. I would therefore like to say that we too are concerned about legal certainty, but we will have to look for some system, some method for 500 000 to be able to access 500,000. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u79	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. As a matter of fact, we agree with the application. It is required to return to the old state, and we clearly see that it must be so. But what does the appeal to the court of the Constitution require? That's what he's asking for. That's what he demands, to abolish 16/2012 king's Decret Law and the former state. That's exactly what he wants, exactly the same request you've been talking about. As we have said, we do not forget that royal decree, but it is true that, after the sentence of the Constitutional Court, it has been found to pass through with joy. But that doesn't mean that we're agreeing to that measure, and that's why I'm telling you that the court of the Constitution made that request through a process of appeal. In the meantime? In the mean time, they are taking as much precautions as they can to prevent the least possible damage to those weakest states. And that's why I told you the builders are welcome, but that request is already made, that request you've mentioned is already made. And, look, truth is, we don't like the legal frame of our day, we don't like it at all, we don't do ours. But this is what we have today, and unfortunately, as is often the case with the attacks on our jurisdictions, it often leaves us helpless. But this is another matter, and I refer it to what you have said before, or to what you have said in the previous discourse. We're hopeful for the future, we're pretty sure we're going back to that situation, but today's the legal frame you've got, and we think in that sense, at least, everything that's available to her is doing. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u80	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Now that the discussions are over, we'll start the vote. First point, the first point in the subject list: "Motion, Antonio Damborenea, the Baresterchea of the Basque Groups, a member of the legislature of the Pontulagians, about the unemployment of the Basques." This is where we vote for Lord Damborenea, Mr. Basterrechea's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; votes given, 71; supporters 10; contraries, 61; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u81	So the original motion has not been accepted. Second point: "Mortion, María del López de Ocariz lópez de Munininka, members of the Popilative Groups, referred to the difference of the organizational regulations of the land (LAG). You've been asking for stitches here. What's the problem with voting points for those who made the amendment? Matut? Carmen Lopez de Ocarari? It's possible, isn't it? It's possible. Okay. The first and second, and the third. We'll vote for the first and second points together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 71; supporters of 71; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u82	The first and second points have been unanimously accepted. Next, we vote for the third point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 71; the opponents of 56; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 15.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u83	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "Pull this proposition as a team of lawmen made, concerning the irregularities which occurred in Mr. Mario Fernández's reign in the State of SA." We'll vote for the original text of the EH billing proposal. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 71; in favour 20; the opponents, 51; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u84	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Misto-UPyD team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 71; in favour of 0, 61; white, 0; abstations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u85	So it's canceled. Sixth Point: The other proposal of the legislature, as it were, of the legislatures, of the universalization of the assistance of the treatment, and the facility of the entrance of them. Here's the middle-line correction that the EH Collect and the Basque Socialists signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 70; the votes given, 71; the opponents 35; the opponents, 36; the whites, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u86	So we're not allowed to rectification in the middle of the line. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; votes given, 71; supporters 10; contraries, 61; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u87	It is not therefore accepted to be the correction of the integer. And next we vote for the full correction of the group as the Eubertist. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 71; in favour 26; the opponents, 45; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u88	And so it is not agreed that the eucipators should have the full correction of the party. Seventh point: "The other proposal of the Socialists as a group of legislatures, within the limits of information on the minor contracts of Euskal Administration." We're going to vote for a middle-class correction signed by the Basque Socialists and the EH Collectors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; votes given, 71; supporters 45; opponents 26; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-12.u89	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Next, I shall read an institutional expression: "The United Nations Organization is 70 years old this year. He is the great international organization created to protect future generations from the punishment of war and to maintain peace and international security between his main goals. "Spain left West Sahara 40 years ago, and it's a non-autonomous land that's continued without decolonizing, which is under Morocco's occupation. The Supreme responsibilities to the United Nations and its members are responsible for the creation of the United Nations, and the Security Council of that organization has the greatest responsibility for a just and permanent solution. "The laws of the United States at the general meeting: "Bat. We urge the Spanish Government, in its capacity as the administering power of Iure and member of the Group of Friends of the Secretary-General for Western Sahara and also a non-permanent member of the Security Council during the 2015-2016 mandate, to: "To fulfil its responsibility to put an end to the process of decolonization of the Saharan people, which has not been completed since 1975, by holding a referendum to ensure the free and genuine expression of the will of the Saharan people. "Defend the consolidated doctrine of the United Nations on decolonization and Non-Self-Governing Territories, for which resolution 2625 of the United Nations General Assembly, establishing 'The establishment of a sovereign and independent State, the free association or integration with an independent State or the acquisition of any other political status freely decided by a people constitute the forms of the exercise of the right of self-determination of that people', that being the content of self-determination. "To ensure, in defence of peace and human rights, the attribution to the Minorus, the sole United Nations presence in the territory, of competences in the protection and promotion of the civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights of the Saharawi population. "Two. He agrees with the declaration of Iruña, the 19th of the Parliament of Navarre on February 21, 2015, Peace and Freedom in the Western Sahara. With what was done at the convention. "Three. He decides to send this statement to the Spanish Government President, the Royal House, the Ministry of Foreign Problems, and the persistent mission of the United Nations of Spain." Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-three.
