ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u0	Good morning. I'm just trying to let you know that 11 and 15 points have been left for another reason. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, "About the meeting with the President of the Government of Navarre." Mr. Iturate, your word is yours. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u1	You made an official meeting yourself, President, and President of Government Foru of Navarre. It was not quite a gathering; it had been a great curiosity before him. For after many years the two chiefs would meet for the first time for genuine respect and goodwill to each other. It is obvious that the many things which unite us to the Esquimian Eremic and the Family of Navarre are beyond history, culture, and language. Beyond the fact that we were two different political-administrative realities of the same people, there are numerous reasons for the meeting and collaboration between the Foral Community of Navarre and the Autonomous Community of Euskadi in many fields, diverse fields such as culture, EITB, road and rail infrastructure, cross-border cooperation bodies, the Concert and the Economic Convention, the police themselves... To quote just a few of them. Unfortunately, in recent years, both communities had practically lived on our backs because of the lack of willingness to cooperate, when not because of the sick, separatist obsession with the previous Navarra governments. But judging by the information on the outcome of last Friday's meeting, and by the first assessments made both by you, Lehendakari, and President Barkos, it seems that fortunately a new time is inaugurated in mutual relations, based on collaboration and shared work, a new time that we greet from our group, that we are happy, and to which we offer our total collaboration and support. Therefore, Mr President, what is the rating of our conversation with President Foru of the Navarre? And what are potential deals and projects that can be developed together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u2	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all of you. It was a positive meeting with the President of the Navarre Government. It was the first job he ever had, and he did a lot. I must say so. I say positive because it served to normalize the relationship of two communities with history, culture, and equal social reality. I say he's given a lot, because we've discussed the issues together, and he's helped us work together again. We want to go on, we want to move forward, we want to make a difference between the organizations. We have a unique opportunity of extending our work together, and we wish to use it in the economy, politics, culture, and social matters to understand each other better. I can tell you certain consequences of that meeting. For instance, these two governments are aware that we need a good neighborhood relationship, because we know that it will be useful to our fellow-citizens for the quality of life. We want a larger Auto-gourage, and we see the necessity of defending the Word, and the Economy treaty. We think that in Europe we ought to be working together. Thus the Navarrian has given us a wish to enter into the country which is composed of Aquitania. The assessment of the meeting with the president of Navarre, Uxue Barkos, is positive. It was a very productive first working meeting. It involves normalizing relations between two communities that we share history, culture and social reality, as you have rightly said, Mr Iturrate. We start from a reality sustained in time. This is demonstrated by the cooperation protocols and agreements signed between the Basque Government and the Government of Navarre, some of which have still been in force since 1992; as well as agreements adopted with parliamentary support, which are now ineffective. The spirit is surpassing. We want to move forward and extend this relationship. We aspire to grow in self-government, we want to collaborate within the framework of the Atlantic arc. The Euroregion is an opportunity to move forward together in Europe. This first meeting has focused the work agenda on six areas: communication infrastructures, with rail connection as a priority; improvement of public services such as education or health, the health care agreement will soon be ratified; economic revival, we want to share projects in internationalization, tourism or primary sector; culture and Basque, we participate in Euskaltzaindia and we will work to facilitate the reception of ETB in Nafarroa; security, we share areas of information, prevention and training, and defense of self-government and the fiscal capacity of the Convention and the Economic Concert. We will always work together from the principle of mutual respect that we both wanted to underline. The arrangement is full, and we will therefore hold more technical meetings, and also between President Uxue Barkos and myself as lehendakari. I reiterate the conclusion shared between Uxue Barkos as president and myself: it was a positive and productive meeting, and I add, hopeful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u4	Thank you. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the Congressmen of the United States of the United States of the Basque Country" (Actually) of the United States of the United States of the United States of the United States. Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u5	Mrs. head of the table, thank you. Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, from your own mouth this week, a series of statements you have made, in which you said that Spain has a problem in Catalonia and Euscatin, which we believe are contradictory, and with other expressions you have made later on. So we're asking you the next question. When we see that the Spanish State is a sterile method, which is clearly seen by the example of Catalonia, which, in your opinion, is the question of the Spanish State in the Basque Country, if we refuse to make a single decision here in Catalonia as well as in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u6	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. You ask me, Mr. Urizar, like a mirror, and beginning with what you mention, I would ask you a question: Are you sure they have to take the one-sided road to Catalonia? Are you sure? As far as I know, after the election, Katalunia wants to open a new field of interviews and negotiation with the state. One-sided decision has not been made. Well, it's true, but I've said so long ago that the Spanish State of Macana has two problems, the problem in Katalunia and here. It is true, too, that there is a people here who wish to decide the future freely and democraticly. And furthermore, this legislature has admitted that the Basque People have the right of self-determination, as well as of our vote. All this is true, and so I have expressed it. But here I shall recall another sentence which has been pronounced a week ago, and he says: "At the time of designing the future, I defend myself from being based on a agreed and integrated arrangement, the basis of that future being a compact and an inward agent." That's what the phrase says. The President of Catalonia himself used these words on Sunday night: "Cychronium, Intricion y concordia." Here we have an excellent opportunity to propose a arranged plan from the legislature, and it is now our turn to work on it. I'm sure, if we succeed in immense internal consent, we'll get a new political pact for our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u9	The lady's head. President, it's all right to play a pun on differences and one-sidedness, but I think we must make it clear that Spain has no trouble, that it will never be any trouble with the Basque People, if it be your proposal, that is, if it's the only way to be impartial. Scotland's path is right? We'd like to, too, but we can't cheat society, President. Spain is not the Great Bretini, and, as we have seen in Catalonia, the reference goes back to it, does not admit of the right of deciding, will not seek consent to any of its parameters, nor will he sit down to speak. And you know that, because here, last Thursday, you were clearly stated from the opposite bank, absence is not acceptable. President, Spain will have no trouble with the Basque Country if we refuse to be one-sided. Because, denying our request, problems are over. The establishment of difference as a limit gives the Spanish State a right to it, which he knows well, but you know very well. The problem is not that Spain has the problem, and we have to tell it clearly and clearly. The problem is, we got it because you've been running backwards all the time. So far, we must not go far now, for we were accustomed to the ardent independence of the Day Party. At least you proclaimed independence once a year, President. But not even that. Aurten, the kar aurtzean oinarritutako batasunean sinesten zenuela esan zenuen. Hitzez hitz: "I believe in union from mutual recognition, example, UK". Erabilitiko hitzak. And the most important thing is that in this statement you put your accent into unity and that the Scots had chosen independence. And there's the key. Perhaps the main question is not to deny the right of choosing Madrid; perhaps the question is, that you seek the settlement in the Spanish frame, with limits to the right of determination, and that we cannot limit it as a limit to the absence of the one-sidedness. We see that the catalonia is making its way. And Catalonia has always opened the doors to superiority. But you know, Madrid doesn't keep those doors open, and we need to make sure that's clear.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u10	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urizar, I ask you again: do you think Catalonia will follow the one-sided road? I'm asking you honestly to answer me. Yes, please, it's my turn now, Mr. Urizar. Don't play galle, no, Mr. Urizar.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u12	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u13	You want to put the one-sidedness and the difference in the opposite, and also in using a few words from me. Look, Mr Urizar, what you have said, I ask you and I urge you to use it on your fair terms, because I, in the general policy debate, in this very rostrum, have been talking about voluntary union since free accession. Voluntary union since free accession. In addition to having ratified what has been the principle of commitment to the right of self-determination that the Basque Nationalist Party has yet to say four years ago. And I don't know if you, the principle of the right of self-determination even defend it. In any case, Mr Urizar, you speak of unilateral decisions, and at the same time you participate in the self-government presentation. And I tell you, then or one thing or the other. Because if we really have a problem here, it's not understood that you intend both at the same time. And in any case, it seems to me that this game of yours is not new. It's not new. And I will remind you, that a year and a half ago, you declared unilaterally and emphatically, "we're leaving." You may have left, but you haven't left, Mr. Urizar. As it goes on, what I suggest is that instead of devoting time to moving further and further away from everyone else, I try to approach positions with the rest of the groups. So I'll end up with a sentence you wrote: We have to do our own process. I agree, and here we are. We have to process our process, all of us. All of us here, including you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, Ichaso González, a member of the Basque Socialists, a member of the United States, made for the President, with regard to the measures taken to defend the jurisdictions of the housing in front of the Spanish Government." My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u15	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, with the plenary of general politics the political course is opened and it is, of course, a debate of great symbolism, which I followed with attention. And I must admit that I was pleased to hear when, referring to the central government's possible recourse to the Housing Act, it said that it did not accept an appeal against the decisions of this Parliament, which takes the necessary policies. And, therefore, I must acknowledge that I was pleased that you said that the Housing Act is a necessary policy. I drew less attention than you defended our competences, because that is what is logically expected of a lehendakari. However, and recently, the agreement of the bilateral commission to carry out the work that resolves the discrepancies has already appeared in the State Official Gazette. We then asked him, Mr Lehendakari, in defence of our powers, what arguments the Government is or is going to handle.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u16	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u17	Thank you, Chief of Parliament. Mr Itxaso, the arguments that the Basque Government will defend will be criteria of legality. And I quote some of them. One is the establishment in autonomous law of certain consequences which may arise from the action which is determined to be contrary to the social function of the right to property, which does not, in our view, constitute a definition of the essential content of that right. Therefore, it does not affect the basic conditions of equality associated with the competence of article 149 of the Constitution, nor does it constitute civil law exclusive competence of the State. The second argument we will use is that any definition of the concept of uninhabited housing does not have to be considered unconstitutional, as stated in Constitutional Court ruling 93/2015. The third argument that we will use is that the nature of temporary forced expropriation of the use of housing in the course of mortgage execution procedures does not affect the use by the State of its competitive title of general management of the economy. How much argument we will use, which is not applicable to the procedural law and the state competition title associated with it. And the fifth argument, among others, that we will use, is that the principle of market unity in relation to the regulation of the exercise of their economic activity by real estate agents is not violated. This follows from the bilateral agreement reached with the Market Unit Guarantee Act. These are the legal criteria that we are going to defend before the bilateral commission, arguments for defending Basque competences and the Housing Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u19	Thank you very much, lehendakari, for your explanations. I must once again express my satisfaction because I understand that the Government has grasped perfectly the spirit of the law and the – not insignificant – differences that exist with regard to the Andalusian Decree-Law, which was also appealed, which did specify, in fact, that it came to define the essential content of the property. Not so our law, the Basque law, which speaks of the social function. The social function of property is also established in the Spanish Constitution, but only by autonomous law can it be developed. And we therefore appreciate and believe that the fact that property and its social function, in our area, are decided here, will be vigorously defended. On some other issues, such as uninhabited housing, in fact, we also find it an outrage on the part of the State Government to say that uninhabited housing can be unconstitutional, when the Local Finance Act also raises the possibility of imposing surcharges on the IBI and, therefore, without regulating then or developing legally what uninhabited housing is. Therefore, it is up to us. Finally, I would like to say, in short, and I am not going to run out of time, that we are pleased to know that the important and controversial elements of the law are going to be defended, in short, as the legislator who handled it somehow expected. The threat of an eventual remedy has planned on this law since the first minute, since its consideration, without taking into account the long and prolific processing that has resulted, or what could become of it. I mean, there is already from the very first moment with this law a desire to break in and invade our competition and our ability to decide. Therefore, knowing that they are going to do so, in those terms we encourage you, Mr Lehendakari, not to give up the effort and not to take a step backwards. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u20	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Mr. President is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Legs, and thank you, Mr. Ichaso, for your words. Thank you, because what we certainly advocate is that Euskadi has the full right to articulate his public policies, and to try to restrict the ability to legislate and condition public policies is an interference of the Government of Spain that attacks the Basque self-government. And given what you have said about the threat that has been identified from the beginning of a possible remedy by the Spanish Government, I would also like to record that the State Administration announced the unconstitutionality appeal against the Housing Act at the end of July, but that it has not today convened the bilateral cooperation commission to analyse that remedy. In any case, our position is firm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Forth point on the theme list: "I'm asking you, Mr. Carmelo Barrio Barroja, a member of the Popula team, to criticize the central government and to praise the Eucadic Council." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President; Lehendakari, members of the Government. On 9 September, the Basque Government, through the General Secretariat headed by Mr Jonan Fernández, released a report entitled "Final report on the mid-term evolution of the Peace and Co-existence Plan of the Basque Government 2013-2016". This report is not independent, it is not impartial and it is not fair. Once again, at the request of his party, the permanent obsession of this Government: to attack the central Government and other bodies, and to exalt itself. Basque citizens pay reports that Mr Urkullu has commissioned to criticize the environment and preserve that so-called "microagreement road map". The report shows that the Government feels comfortable with the keys to political distance, and that is why we ask why the Basque Government uses propaganda and the construction of political distance in its so-called "policy of peace and coexistence". Don't you see, Mr. Lehendakari, that this is very brazen, that this is very unbalanced? The Secretariat of Peace and Coexistence for its coldness, for its equidistance, seems more like the SPRI or the Data Protection Agency, rather than a reference for the victims and for the end of ETA. Why, Mr. Lehendakari?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u24	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, the Peace and Co-existence Plan was approved by the Governing Council on 26 November 2013, and in its follow-up section it proposes to carry out an external evaluation in mid-legislature. This evaluation was contracted through a negotiated procedure and was awarded to the Institute for Studies on Conflict and Humanitarian Action, through a negotiated procedure. This institution, the Institute of Studies, has extensive experience in conflict and humanitarian action. To cite some of the examples of his experience, I would say that he developed the Strategy for the Construction of Peace of Spanish Development Cooperation, as well as the Women's Plan and the Construction of Peace. Both on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Spanish Government. Therefore, Mr. Barrio, you must know him. The Institute of Studies on Conflicts and Humanitarian Action formed a team of four professionals, renowned experts. They met with all the parliamentary groups, and you have every right, yes, to discuss the conclusions of these experts, but it is not fair to question their ability and professionalism. You, Mr Barrio, always question the reports that experts make for the Basque Government. It was not the first time that they had done so with the report on human rights violations, and there could be no doubt about the professionalism and plurality of the perpetrators. They also did so with the report of the Basque Institute of Criminology, and they do so now with this evaluation report. There can be no doubt, Mr Barrio, or question the honesty of those who do not think like us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u27	Thank you, Mr. Lehendakari. "Negotiated procedure". Yes, that business always goes wrong, curiously, at the same time, and it always goes well with the government. The obsessions of the past, Mr. lehendakari: the central government always in the picota: "has not wanted to get deeply involved", "refusal", "lack of political will"... That's right, also "some immobile parties that cling to that situation," "they don't go to the Ponencia de Paz y Convivencia"... That is true, the permanent requirement with the prison policy, permanently in every document that comes out, the same that serves to give to the Government of Spain. Now the victims' associations: they criticize their representativeness, their participation in processes that affect them. That's right, we come to the Basque Government's point: the Basque Government, "exercise of political responsibility", "global plan, necessary, ambitious, advanced, realistic, balanced, alive, flexible, participatory...". This is not fair, Mr. Lehendakari. Is this the self-criticism you imposed on the political keys you were talking about recently? Is this the self-criticism? Paying reports with public money to exalt the government and criticize us all? I don't think it's fair. Make self-criticism, Mr. Lehendakari. Think a little bit about this collection of documents, that if we criticize some of it, for something it will be! We do not like to criticize the government's policy because it is! No, no, no! And on this subject less! I say again that this is a secretariat that would have to have a very serious job. This is not the competition court. This is something very different, which would have to be a reference for other things. In addition to the usual: experts who appear there, mediators, paid verifiers, are the reference of the Basque Government so as not to assume its own shortcomings, Mr Lehendakari. That's it. And the report itself also says that, in reference to mediators, verifiers, that is timely, too, and that is appropriate. That's what the evaluation says. This is not an assessment, Mr Lehendakari; this is a set of opinions. This is an appendix, it's an annex to the Peace and Coexistence Plan, which we all pay, but all you do is exalt yourself, exalt yourself. Yes, it's not fair, Mr. Lehendakari, it's not fair. Recognize it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u28	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, I insist on the honesty of the members of the working group of the institute. Do you know the relevance of the members of the working group? Have they met with you? Could you say here the origin of some of them? Could you say that? To know if it is honest what you are saying, accusing them of such members. Yes, Mr Barrio, it bothers you that any report criticises the Spanish Government. But how can you come to me with this when you yourselves, as the People's Party of the Basque Country, have criticized the lack of diligence of the Spanish Government at the end of ETA? How can you come to tell me these things that you have been saying in the rostrum, when you yourself, yourself, have claimed from the President of the Spanish Government greater decisive action at the end of the violence? The report, Mr Barrio, is an opportunity to improve, and they are not opinions. It offers 25 recommendations, 25 recommendations and areas for improvement. 25 recommendations and areas for improvement, and we must take advantage of them, and the Basque Government will do so. The Basque Government will do so, because also in these areas of improvement and in these 25 recommendations there are also sites for the Government. I stress a recommendation that invites us to leave certain areas of comfort that make the agreement impossible. Look, insist how you insist that the government endorse the thesis of the conflict, which wants to marginalize the victims – it does not seem to me that we are marginalizing the victims, when the victims participate in all the programs that we are promoting – which aims to equalize or compensate for violence and dilute the responsibility of ETA... In addition to not being true, Mr Barrio, it means generating political distance. Our intention is to build spaces for dialogue and agreement, and I hope that at some point you can join those spaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Five point in theme list: "The question is that Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPyD members have been made to the president about "fortunation." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u31	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning to everyone and everyone. Mr Lehendakari, you used in the general policy debate last week a new term: "Foral Nation". I will tell you that in our opinion the term is like the historical rights themselves or the forality itself, in short, an antique, an anachronism. And it's also a contradiction in terms, an oxymoron, a trap and a subterfuge. Perhaps it is also true that this linguistic juggling is not as important as knowing exactly what you intend to do when using this term, where you intend to get to, where you intend to take us all, what you intend to do. I am clear that this is a trick to advance towards independence. At the moment, you, and I told you last week, are squatting and waiting for the weakness of the state, but it is obvious that the goal is that, independence, sooner or later. And Mr Egibar usually reminds us of that and also of the president of his political party. Rather than giving him a court or calling him moderate, for that there are others, I prefer to try to denounce what you propose and explain and repeat that we do not want to raise borders between fellow citizens, that what interests us all is to live together more and better, to foster union rather than disunity. And of course it's very serious to break up with each other or smudge the confrontation. Finally, we are seeing what has caused nationalism in Catalonia, and we do not want the same to happen here. We also know what the president of his political party said a few days ago: "Euskadi and Catalonia different paths, although with the same end." We are indeed very concerned and very concerned about this. We are not surprised, because we already know what nationalism represents and in particular the Basque Nationalist Party. But in any case, I want to denounce it and I want you to explain again here where you intend to take Euskadi, what you intend to do when you claim that term as absurd as "foral nation".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u32	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, what the Basque Nationalist Party intends to do seems to me that you will have to discuss it with Mr Urizar, to see if they agree with each other to know what the Basque Nationalist Party intends to do. In any case, Mr Maneiro, and by skipping what are the adjectives that you have again expressed in this rostrum, Mr Maneiro, I will tell you that you participated in the debate and know that I did not use the term "foral nation" in any vindictive spirit. Do not seek, therefore, enemies where there are none, because it was an affirmation that I made. I said this and I maintain it: "As a foreign nation that we are, our protected and respected historical rights can give them as much as they can reach our capacity to achieve institutional pacts, to make political decisions that are endorsed by citizens and respected." He asks me how far I intend to go, and I repeat what he said: "as long as we can reach our capacity to achieve institutional pacts that are endorsed and respected." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u35	Do you intend to respect the law in force? You speak of terms that we strongly reject, such as historical rights. We demand equality; we demand solidarity; we demand the Spanish Constitution, although it can obviously be changed through established legal procedures; we demand the rule of law; we demand democratic citizenship, shared citizenship. All that I think is much more modern than looking back. I think society has to look to the future, not backwards. And it's better to live together than separate, it's better to break down borders than to raise new borders between fellow citizens. Look, Mr Lehendakari, I don't think we're going to agree on the time remaining during this legislature. It is impossible, but my obligation is to confront you, defend my ideas and criticize yours and make arguments on all these issues. I want to make you a present today, Mr. Lehendakari. I want to give you this book, Defense of Citizenship, by Fernando Savater. I hope you read it carefully, because it's a gem, and I think it would be worth it if you could read it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u36	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u37	I'm not going to ask you to make a summary to give it to me in a few months, but I really hope you read it, read it carefully, and I'm sure you learn from this book as much as so many other people have learned from reading it. It claims values such as citizenship, democratic citizenship, shared citizenship, solidarity and equality. I said, a jewel. Read it and in a few months you'll tell me what you think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u38	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Thankfully, Mr. Maneiro, you have told me that in a few months' time, I'll tell you what I thought and you haven't told me you're going to give me a test on the book. Well, in any case, I don't know if Fernando Savater wrote this in 2001, when he sparked certain alliances in relation to what is the unity of Spain. In any case, you tell me about legality and compliance with legality. Mr Maneiro, I humbly, without a book to give you, appeal to something that you must have on the frontispiece of what is also the preparation of all your interventions in this matter. And I remind you that the Spanish Constitution protects and respects the historical rights of the outlying territories. The Spanish Constitution. You deny what the Constitution protects and respects. I remind you that the Basque people, with the expression of their nationality – and I do not think of any better definition than the concretion of nationality is a nation – were constituted as an autonomous community. You deny the reality of the Basque people as set out in the Statute, Mr Maneiro. The Statute is the updated expression of the foral regime. We can talk about outside territories, you can talk about outside community, you can't talk about outside nation. It manifests the Statute of Autonomy the unique, unique and unique character of historical rights, our original freedoms preserved by pact. Statute of Autonomy, organic law. I'm still talking about legality. Look, in the face of his permanent denial, I remind him of the principles of the 1979 statutory spirit: subject, bilaterality, covenant and guarantees. Despite the fact that the Statute is an organic law, despite the fact that the Constitution recognizes nationalities and expressly provides for the updating of the foral regime based on historical rights – and this is also the Spanish Constitution, Mr. Maneiro – it has not, however, been possible to guarantee the full development of the Statute and its compliance with guarantees. We are not talking, therefore, about legal impossibility, but about a lack of political will. I maintain that we now have the opportunity to identify a meeting space to advance in self-government, achieve recognition as a nation, and continue to build Euskadi in a stronger and more open Europe. I therefore repeat in this House a positive and constructive look. Let us be pro-active, Mr. Maneiro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interadectition by Gorka Maniroy's Mistora-UPyD members to the president, and the Basque Council's homage to the victims of terrorism." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u41	Yes, thank you. Mr Lehendakari, I ask you about the actions you intend to take so that all the Basque municipalities where there were victims of ETA pay tribute to these victims of ETA as they deserve, which is a claim we have been defending in recent years, and which surprisingly has not yet been made. And certainly, the Basque Government has not done everything in its power to propitiate these acts of tribute in each of the municipalities where they were killed by the terrorist gang ETA. I ask you, therefore, for the actions you intend to take to ensure that all Basque municipalities where there were victims of ETA pay tribute as they deserve to those victims of terrorism. The truth is that a few weeks ago you organized a meeting with mayors of the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party of Euskadi and Bildu, to promote tributes to ETA victims and alleged victims of police abuse. From this fact they draw attention to two things – by the way, which confirm that you are driving, through the facts, the theory of political conflict. On the one hand, it powerfully draws attention to the fact that you did not formally invite the People's Party to that meeting – Mrs Quiroga tells me not to quote the People's Party, but to quote, there is no problem. The People's Party, which is one of the political parties, the main political party that has suffered most from ETA's terrorist attacks. And this is getting my attention. And I think I've not only said it myself, other people have been saying it lately and not just members of the People's Party. In this one you don't have to be a sectarian. In this it does not matter the acronyms, in this it does not matter which political party we represent. It's strange to me, it's strange, that a meeting where you're supposed to lay the foundations to be able to honor all the victims of ETA, in those municipalities where there were victims of ETA, is not invited to the People's Party. There have been those who have written that they should have also invited UPyD and some other political party. Anyway, I really care less about this. But a political force like the People's Party seems reasonable that it could be at that meeting. It draws the attention you invite Bildu, not the People's Party, to pay tribute to ETA victims. It's certainly strange. And you say, "No, it's that the People's Party doesn't rule any municipality where there were ETA victims." It doesn't matter, it doesn't matter. It's the gesture, it's the forms. And gesture and forms matter a lot in a democracy. That is why, as a result of these actions and these ways of proceeding, there are those who denounce that you are pushing through the facts, the theory of political conflict, and that is why there are many victims of terrorism who are outraged at you and your policy. Because Mr. Jonan Fernández is no longer responsible. You are directly responsible for these facts. And another thing that attracts attention is their claim to mix some victims with others. And this has not only been criticized by UPyD in recent weeks, it has also been criticized by the People's Party, it has also been criticized by the Basque Socialist Party and a large number of victims of terrorism. That claim to try to mix some victims with other alleged victims, or other victims in some cases, certainly also fosters the theory of political conflict. Why does this interest in wanting to mix one victim with another, when regardless of the suffering of each victim, reflect different realities? And the claim to mix them, is a very bad idea, which, I say, fosters the theory of political conflict that some want to continue to drive. The Basque Government, instead of organizing tributes in all the places where there were victims of ETA, modified the previous criterion, and the map of memory, to confuse everything, to content Batasuna and, I say, to defend the theory of political conflict. Therefore, we have that meeting, we have that claim to mix some victims with others, and we have the list of honorables that you have drawn up in recent weeks. And this is certainly also serious, because it presents 21 stories as victims, because it includes some cases of suicide and half a dozen deaths from heart disease, cancer or other diseases, because the authors of the report have ignored the existence of judicial decisions that have exempted the security forces from liability. And you and you don't take this into account, and this is a scandal, this is an insult. It is not only ignored, but also that the Spanish, French, Mexican and Strasbourg courts voluntarily hide their shortcomings. I'm saying it's a scandal. In addition to 21 years of age, his Government proposed to treat as victims workers killed in union protests and those who had died under charges from the Ertzaintza and the Police, but names were included even if the cases had been investigated and filed by the Justice, including by French courts, as in the case of Jon Anza, etarra with terminal cancer who had died in a hospital. It includes people who died from natural causes and various diseases, it is questioned certain actions of the Ertzaintza that Atutxa, at the time, or Ibarretxe defended before Arnaldo Otegi. It is alluded to deaths that occurred two and a half years after police action. And others. Mr Lehendakari, but who has made this report? Who made this report? This is a barbarity that is proposed here. Are these mistakes? Is it someone who doesn't know how to do things right? Or is there a political will to confuse everything? These are facts, and this is a shame, Mr Lehendakari, that you consider as victims those who have not been victims, and there are no sentences, there is no case. In addition to the claim, I say, to mix everything up, on top of that list includes people who cannot be considered victims in any case. Who made this report? Is this report going to be corrected? What are you going to do with this report? Who's responsible for all this? The resignation of Jonan Fernández, in short, we have already requested it on several occasions; now you are responsible. Who controls this gentleman? Who advises you? Who prepares the reports for you? We were also aware of his report on the crimes committed by ETA pending resolution. Another disastrous report, another disastrous report wrongly done, where data was missing and wrongly entered. But what is this? What is it? Inability, is it political will to confuse everything, to mix everything up, to defend the theory of political conflict? What is the pretence of this government? That's all there is to it. Mr. Lehendakari, I hope you can explain this to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u42	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. Erkorek who's a member of the team has a word to say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, I have listened with interest and attention to your intervention, as it is usually a matter of disqualifications and many judgments of intent on the purposes of the Government, hidden purposes, the pretensions of the document or of the General Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence. Let me tell you about the way in which this initiative on municipal portraits of violations of the right to life in the Basque case is conceived, configured and implemented, so that it can convey to the House, and also to you, the fact that it has not been worked around a barbarity. What has been raised is not a shame – as you have described it – but an initiative that can have its detractors, can have them, but that is basically well-directed, inspired by the principles that underpin the Peace and Co-existence Plan, and that pursues objectives we believe that widely shared by Basque society and by the political forces as a whole, without prejudice to the fact that you or that can put some but into this or the other, as in all the initiatives that are the fruit of human action. Look, the fourth action of initiative number four of the Peace and Co-existence Plan literally foresees "promoting the consensual development of a map of memory." This action is directly related to the promotion of a memorial policy from the municipal level. A course of action that is not new in this legislature, which was already launched in the previous legislature at the initiative of the Basque Parliament, although with limited development. The Peace and Co-existence Plan, therefore, sets out the objective of reinvigorating the map of memory, an initiative that consists in promoting, according to the municipalities, a memorial policy that recalls the injustice of terrorism and violence. In this regard, on 29 May 2014, the General Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence submitted a document which was subsequently forwarded to all municipalities – all of them – including recommendations, including suggestions, including practical criteria that could contribute to the realization of these events of memory at the local level. This document then served as a basis for a cooperative dialogue, both with the municipalities and with the political forces – with all political forces – with a view to the design and celebration of these memorial acts that were intended to be implemented at the municipal level. On December 17, 2014, at the end of last year, the Secretary General of Peace and Co-existence appeared in this House, specifically before the Commission on Human Rights, to provide an assessment of the management developed over the year that concluded, from the 2014 financial year, what the Basque Government had done to promote acts of memorial politics from the municipalities. All in all, the information transmitted by the Secretary-General of Peace and Coexistence at that appearance, had been 22 municipalities that during that year, in 2014, had held commemorative events on the day of the memorial. These 22 municipalities accounted for approximately 57% of the total Basque population. In the vast majority of cases – in the vast majority of cases – the events took place under a programme that had been the result of the transversal municipal consensus. In that appearance – this is extracted from the session diary – the Secretary General of Peace and Co-existence was literally saying this to you, which I'm going to read to you: "The same difficulty we face in the parliamentary sphere when it comes to agreeing on issues related to memory is also found in the municipal sphere, the same difficulty. Our lack of consensus here in Parliament precedes that. The achievement of memory consensus in the Basque parliamentary sphere would result in a multiplication of memorial actions at the local level. In any case, the municipalities are already making a tour and, in many cases, they have already reached important and transversal consensuss." This is what the Secretary-General for Peace and Co-existence said at that meeting, showing that the difficulties that exist in reaching consensus on this matter, right here in Parliament and in the bodies set up by it to promote these meetings, were clearly and inevitably reflected also at the municipal level. Well, the experience of dialogue with the municipalities allowed us to detect some gaps. One of them, perhaps one of the most significant, was the fact that the municipalities told us that, in seeking to promote memorial proceedings, they had fragmentary and insufficient information about the victims that violence and terrorism had caused during the 50 years in their respective municipal terms. And this is how the project to which I refer, the project "Municipal portraits of violations of the right to life in the Basque case", takes shape. A work that is extremely laborious, but that has allowed 130 municipalities to now have a document, not declarative, informative, but specific about the municipality that collects this information. This documentation, which has been forwarded to the municipalities, has been prepared by reviewing virtually all the lists published to date in the field of victims: those drawn up by the Ministry of the Interior, those of the Government of Navarre, those previously drawn up by the Basque Government itself, associations of victims, the media and private authors. Of course, synthesizing and integrating all this data rigorously is a complex and delicate task. It complicates, because there are significant differences between some databases and others. And delicate, because it's not just a matter of statistics and numbers, we're talking about issues that affect the suffering of individuals and specific families. A very sensitive matter, therefore. However, the contrast made makes it possible to state that this information, available by the Secretariat-General for Peace and Co-existence and which the secretariat has placed in the hands of the municipalities, offers a very approximate picture of the objective reality of the facts. And it confronts us cruelly, unbridledly, with our past and within the specific framework of each of the municipalities that suffered from these events. Each notebook is a municipal portrait, a municipal and human portrait of what should not be repeated. And so it is made clear to all effects. It must not be repeated or forgotten. And the title of the document also includes the word "portrait", because a portrait has, as you well know, human face, has face, has eyes and has expression. A portrait depicts a specific person, with names, surnames, family, friends, personal biography, dreams, aspirations and projects. And this document is a portrait of the human faces of the suffering of every unjustly murdered victim, because we are talking about victims of violations of the right to life. Once this work was completed, we handed it over to the mayors, and in January 2015, it was handed over to the mayors in the three capitals of the three historical territories of the Autonomous Community: Mr. Juan Carlos Izaguirre in Donostia, Mr. Ibon Areso in Bilbao and Mr. Javier Maroto in Vitoria. Then, we wait for the municipal elections to pass to avoid any electoral connotation and in July we already hand over the document to the mayors of some of the localities with the largest population. At that time we already announced that in early September we would hold a meeting with all mayors of municipalities who have victims of violence, with victims of death, caused by terrorism or violence in its municipal term. And that's exactly what we did after the summer was over. On September 4, we held this meeting and handed over to each mayor the documentation relating to his municipality. In that act we encourage mayors to develop a public policy of memory at the municipal level, always seeking the maximum transversality and the maximum possible consensus. And since then we have had dialogues with mayors and municipalities, trying to collaborate in the promotion of memorial policy actions at the municipal level and, in particular, around the day of memory. These are the concrete facts, Mr Maneiro, which reflect an undoubted path of commitment to the memory of the victims and also – and this is inevitable in this case – a path of respect for municipal autonomy, because they are both elements that need to be reconciled in an initiative of these characteristics that seeks to take root at the municipal level. We are in a democracy, Mr Maneiro. The imposition is something of another time. We seek dialogue with the municipalities and encourage the municipalities to seek the municipal political consensus. Dialogue and cooperation. This is our way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u44	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u45	Yes, thank you, President. As far as we can see, the lehendakari does not know, does not answer on this relevant question that directly affects him. In any case, Mr Erkoreka, yes, indeed, all that you have told me is about what I ask you, about what I have already asked you, and you have not answered anything. You have not answered any of the three basic questions I have asked. Let's see if in the second round you answer and you are able to explain the reasons behind those three questions that I ask you. The meeting. Why this paraphernalia to hold that meeting in the first days of September, if it was only a matter of handing over a document to the various mayors where there were victims of ETA and police abuse? Why don't you invite the People's Party to that meeting? A second question that I have asked before and that has not been answered. Why not put those political representatives and those political parties who have suffered the most from the scourge of terrorism in recent years in the place they deserve? They invite people to that meeting who don't condemn ETA, like these gentlemen we have in front of us, and it turns out they don't invite the People's Party. Explanations please. If you want to leave aside the qualifying adjectives, but I do ask for explanations to understand the reasons why they invite Bildu, who does not condemn ETA, who continues to justify ETA, and leave out a democratic political party or several democratic political parties. Why do they insist on mixing ETA victims with victims of police abuse? Why? For what? What's the reason? What are you trying to do? Let us be explained with hair and signs why we intend to do this, let us be told. What is the reason why the Basque Government decides "we will now mix ETA victims with victims of police abuse"? Of those present the PP has shown itself against that idea, the Basque Socialist Party has shown itself against that idea and UPyD has shown itself against that idea. It seems that the gentlemen who still do not condemn ETA share this idea. Is it not better that you are closer to those democratic political parties than those political parties that are not democratic because you do not condemn ETA? But in any case, why do you pretend to mix some victims with other victims? Why? What are you trying to do? In our view, what is intended is to entangle everything, confuse everything, manipulate history and defend the theory of political conflict. That's our theory; otherwise, you don't understand. And the third question. Looking at the list, I have given a series of concrete data, which we have not invented, on specific individuals included in that list and which is perfectly proven that they are not victims, because there are judicial decisions that say so. Over 20. Why is it included in ages, but why is it also included in people who died even for natural causes? And even in the case of people who affect them, sentences that absolve both the Ertzaintza and the National Police, etc. Why? These are four specific questions that the Basque Government has to answer. By the way, don't talk to me about municipal competences, I think this is a matter that goes far beyond municipal competences. They insist that this is a municipal matter and that they have to respect municipal competences. Man, this goes way beyond the municipal sphere! We're talking about the memory of tens, hundreds of ETA victims. We're talking about telling the truth about what happened. We're talking about delegitimizing ETA. We're talking about honoring the victims of ETA. We're talking about all this, you can't circumscribe it at the municipal level. In any case, these are four specific questions that I have asked you. All that you've told me, I know. Four questions, answer them, please. Answer them, because, finally, since Mr Lehendakari does not want to answer, he does not give his face, because he knows the mistakes that have been made voluntarily with this report, at least you answer the questions that I have asked him.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u46	Thank you, Mr. Maneiro. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, I assume I'm little to answer to you. I understand that you prefer to be answered by the Lehendakari, but from my humility, I must remind you that this same question was raised by you in the general policy debate, a week ago, and that the Lehendakari gave you a full answer to all your concerns. His problem is that he never gives a response, because he always insists and returns, repeats and repeats the same items in an insistent manner, with all legitimacy, he can of course do so without any objection from the Government, but let me describe his attitude. So, as he does systematically, because he never gave a reply by anyone, nor did he give a reply by the lehendakari last week, nor does he consider that I have responded to anything you have raised on this occasion. But, well, I'm sure next time he'll ask these same questions again, saying he hasn't been answered. Please note, this initiative – I believe I have made it clear at the beginning of my intervention – is not the only one that the General Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence and, in particular, the Peace and Co-existence Plan for the recognition of victims. It is only one, one that pretends to involve municipal institutions in memorial acts, is one more, one more that adds to the previous ones. If it were the only one, that failure or purported failure that you attribute to it could acquire special relevance, but it's not the only one, it's not the only one. So there are many more that are done with the maximum possible consensus with political formations, with associations of victims, and therefore cannot generalize the defects that you believe may exist in this initiative. But I'm going to answer your questions. You tell me in the first place: "Why so much paraphernalia empty in the first days of September with the mayors of the municipalities who have experienced cases of terrorism in their territorial sphere?". Do you really find paraphernalia empty trying to promote memorial policies with all the municipalities of Euskadi, summoning their mayors, giving the mayors the floor, and the mayors, in addition, of different political formations, to contribute to the government's policy of recognizing victims from the municipal platform? Does that really sound like an irrelevant paraphernalia? Man, it's good that you disqualify the government's initiatives, that's why you're in the opposition, but don't empty the content of initiatives that I think have a lot of plausible ones. Involving the municipal institution in this commitment does not seem to me irrelevant, nor secondary, seems to me to be a very important thing, giving the mayors the floor. Nor did Lehendakari monopolize the word; the mayors of different political formations spoke. It is not the Government's fault that there are political formations that do not acquire mayors in municipalities that are in this situation, but the initiative was not to speak first of political parties, it was to speak with the mayors, with the municipalities, it was to involve the mayors. However, even though this was the initiative to involve the municipalities, because it was a policy to involve the municipalities, political formations were spoken to. And the lehendakari personally sent letters to the presidents of all political parties to report on the initiative, with everyone, spoke to everyone and explained the reasons, the reasons for the initiative to everyone. But it was not an initiative that sought to unite political parties, but municipalities through their mayors, with as much plurality as possible. And the message that is conveyed to them is that they promote acts of recognition of the victims from the consensus, from the maximum transversality, from the search for initiatives shared by the municipal representation. You tell me "you didn't call the PP and you called EH Bildu." Sorry, no political formation was called, all political formations were informed, but the initiative on this occasion has not been articulated through them, it was articulated through the municipalities. You think it's irrelevant, it seems like a vacuum call; it doesn't seem so empty to me. Then he tells me we mixed some victims with others. No, no, not at all. See, the very dynamics of relations with victims and their associations, leads to an approach such as the one that has been taken, that of recognizing victims of violations of the right to life. The very dynamic relationship with victims is not an initiative of the Government or an isolated idea of the Government, no, no. It is not a whim of the Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence, it is the dynamic relationship with victims that leads to such an approach. It does not mix with each other, because it identifies perfectly what is the situation of each one that appears in the municipal portraits. Then he was talking to me about a lot of cases that tell me they're not victim cases. Look, I told you in the first speech, the information that has been provided to the municipalities is not declarative, it is purely informative. And it is expressly stated in many cases that there are still matters to be investigated. It is expressly said, therefore those rulings...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u48	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u50	The seventh point on the theme list: "Interlation, my brother, of the legislature of the Basque Society of Llanos Gómez, to the President, to avoid cleenetelism, the content of the following law of transparency." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Mr Lehendakari, you at last Thursday's general policy plenary showed that transparency and good governance were essential for the proper functioning of the administration and for building confidence in the citizenry. And we cannot agree more with that and our hand stretched out to achieve this goal. But we must say that this commitment to transparency and good governance cannot be left in empty words and must be accompanied by facts. And those facts sometimes in the government say the opposite. Thus, this group presented in March last year a proposal to amend the Good Government Law 7/81 to ensure transparency. The Government gave its favourable opinion, the amendments were tabled, they were qualified, and the truth is that the disposition would be ready to be debated and approved, but since June last year, that is, it has already been more than a year, it still does not convene the Commission of Institutions chaired by the Basque Nationalist Party. I suppose this would be the paralysis Mr Egibar was referring to last week. And another reflection of the concern for transparency, is the functioning of its ethical commission; commission that said it had issued 34 resolutions. Let me be suspicious of that commission, which is a sort of "Juan Palomo" commission. And forgive me the use of such a popular expression, but it is that it defines it perfectly. The majority of the committee is the responsibility of the Government and this undermines its credibility, as it does the credibility of some of the resolutions it has issued. Some cases have already been mentioned here, and we will have the opportunity to discuss them in detail in future debates, but there is one more, one more, one more, about Unibasq, that body whose competence is to issue documents in which the results of their assessments are communicated to the applicants. At its meeting on 6 February, the Governing Council of Unibasq approved the appointment of Mrs Eva Ferreira García as director of the agency on the proposal of its president, the councillor. This person has been charged in a Vitoria Court of Instruction for an alleged crime of documentary falsity. The appointment shall be without effect. On 14 July, however, the Government's Ethics Committee approved the appointment and said that Ms. Ferreira could continue her position until the opening of the oral trial. The truth is that it is quite shocking, Mr Lehendakari, to put himself at the head of the person responsible for drawing up public documents to whom he is accused precisely because of the falseness of a public document. It's like he's playing Kutxabank cashier to someone who's accused of theft, to the Dioni, for example. Forgive my frivolity, but, of course, it sounds very strange. You also indicated that you are committed to observing the provisions of the State Transparency Act – you are grateful that you do not oppose compliance with the law – and that you will forward the transparency and good governance bill before the end of the year. Since the year 2013 that the state normal was approved, there has been time, but, finally, it is never too late if the bliss is good. But the question that needs to be asked is what the content of this law is going to be, whether it really has the objective of ensuring citizens' scrutiny of decision-making, the use of public money, or how institutions act, will go further. And you are going to look for formulas to avoid a question, whether you like it or not, exists in Euskadi, Mr Lehendakari, and we are talking about political clientelism. In fact, there are clear examples of political clientelism in the Basque Government, the Basque Government and public societies. In many Basque institutions, many entrepreneurs do not have opportunities, because there seems to be favourable treatment in public tenders always to certain companies in the hands of people who are always linked to the same party, to their own, Mr Lehendakari. Many entrepreneurs no longer present themselves to the competitions – and I say this because they have told me – because they say that they are already given in advance, and always to themselves. Mr Lehendakari, will it be by chance that the same companies always linked to posts, former posts, relatives and associates of the same party are the contractors in the contracts? It will happen, I say, that if you follow up on the recruitments made by different institutions, also by the Basque Government, for example with constructors, they appear almost always the same, and if you are going to check who is part of these constructors, there are always posts affiliated with or related to the PNV. It will be a coincidence that if one reviews the awards of contracts for the provision of cultural or social services, societies in whose management positions are public positions of the Basque Nationalist Party always appear. That if one finds out to whom companies have been awarded, that they are then in competition with creditors, they belong to a former Lehendakari of the Basque Nationalist Party. It will be a coincidence, Mr Lehendakari, that if one goes to ETB, he sees that the producers with which he is mostly engaged have been made up of charges of the Basque Nationalist Party or by persons who leave the producer to occupy, on a regular basis, the Directorate of Basque public television itself, and a bloody example is Baleuko, a producer she had, and continues to have, as almost the only customer to EITB, and belonged, until shortly before being appointed, to the current director, Edu Barinaga, in charge of the programming of the entity and, therefore, of the contracting with producers. And today it appears in the press this, it appears in the press this, one more complaint, a case that represents an important leap, both because of the amount of what is awarded and because of the number of companies and the political relevance of those to which these companies belong. It's a real lobby. Sons, nephews, brothers of whom I was president of this Parliament and adviser to the Basque Government: Alaike, Ingeplan, Kies, IAZ, Ekin, and I can follow. There are many, many companies, and all always related. They are always in many of these companies, there is a whole glossary of companies that are awarded contracts, in which the affiliation to the Basque Nationalist Party and the affiliation with positions of the Basque Nationalist Party is the characteristic note. And I ask you, Mr. Lehendakari, do you think this is normal? Do you think this is acceptable? Don't you think that steps should be taken to avoid it? It is true that in Euskadi there have also been cases of corruption, and many, many more examples of political clientelism, because some have made political clientelism an authentic modus vivendi. And the rotating doors between the public and the private sometimes turn so much that they get dizzy, and it is necessary to face it. Are you willing to do that, Mr. Lehendakari? Are you willing to face it? Because for this, to face this, to avoid political clientelism, the first thing to do is not accept it as a normal practice. It cannot be that we have to accept as something absolutely normal that the public offices of the party that governs most of the institutions of Basque Nationalist Party, that is, that of the Basque Nationalist Party, or that their family members set up companies that are then awarded the awards of most of the institutions. It cannot be assumed naturally, it cannot seem to be part of the landscape of this country. That's the first thing to change, Mr. Lehendakari. We have to change the political philosophy. It cannot be that it appears to be PNV is the safe conduct to be awarded public tenders, aid and subsidies from the Administration. And it is also necessary that the relevant measures be put in place so that this does not happen. And the law of transparency and good governance – and hence our inquiry – would be a good opportunity for that. But is your government willing to do this, Mr Lehendakari? Are you willing to do that? Because a good measure, for example, would be to carry out in detail a history of all the tenders that companies have and when a company appears, to see all that they have had and who is part of those social bodies and the management of those companies. And if you had all that on a screen, you'd jump the red lights and you'd see that coincidences go way beyond randomness, Mr. lehendakari. That is why this transparency law can be a good opportunity for many issues. An opportunity, of course, to ensure that citizens know how our institutions really work and where public money goes. An opportunity for the ethical commission to truly serve to ensure that those in office are free from any suspicion of unethical behavior. An opportunity to change that political philosophy to which I referred, so that political clientelism is not admitted as something normal, to guarantee transparency and equal treatment in recruitments, to move away from an issue that, of course, deserves to be removed from it. Mr. Lehendakari, that's why I'm asking you. Are you going to take advantage of the future law of transparency and good governance for this? Or are you not at all interested in doing so? We will listen carefully to your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u52	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. Erkoke has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Llanos, there are eloquent cases of parliamentary initiatives of interpellation formula, which are formulated in writing in some terms and then expressed from the rostrum in radically different terms. You give guidance to the written text that you have recorded in this House to raise the question and now you have incorporated it, it is true that you have not made a radically disconnected intervention with that initial one, but it is true that you have introduced important observations that have occupied the fundamental core, 80%, of your intervention, which only have to do with the honest, decontextualized concern that you seemed to have regarding the improvement of the public procurement control regime. I am going to answer your written question, which, in short, seems to arouse your interest, but I cannot fail to make two observations, two very specific clarifications to objective errors that you have made from the rostrum. First, you spoke of the Ethics Commission and identified it with that phrase of "Palomo, I like it, I eat it", on the basis of a data that was objectively false. You said, "This is a commission in which the majority is government." Pardon me; if you read the Law on Administrative Procedure and you read the Code of Ethics itself, you will be able to observe that of the five persons who make up the commission, one is the secretary with a voice but without a vote; therefore, she is a peer. And if the resolutions have been read, which I see are not, you will have been able to see that in all cases, to date, the resolutions have been adopted unanimously. By unanimity! That is to say, it is not put to the vote and the majority of the Government is imposed on the outside. No, no. It is the external experts who set the pattern. If you want to disqualify them, start by disqualifying them. I believe that they are people of recognized prestige in their respective fields – in the academic world, in the world of research, in the field of public ethics. If you want to disqualify them, disqualify them. But the composition is even and the decisions, all of them, are unanimous. All by unanimity. There are no votes. There is no imposition by the Government of its view. Second. You were talking to me about the Unibasq case. Well, it is one of the criteria taken by the Ethics Committee, following a tone that is not depriving of it, when it says, for example, that it is incompatible with the principle of exemplaryness from the moment when the possible imputation of which it may be subject passes to the opening of the oral trial. That is a criterion, not only of the Ethics Commission, but it is adopted even institutionally in many areas. But look, the People's Government in Madrid – the General Courts – just passed a law a few months ago in which what they say is that the high office remains high until the conviction. That is to say, the criterion that you, the People's Party, have just adopted in General Courts, in a law on high offices, is much more lax. There is a difference between the opening of the oral trial and the conviction. Here's what's there. In his inquiry, the central point is the idea of political clientelism. You know that political clientelism is a very broad, very heterogeneous concept. In Spain it also has a clear correlation, which is "political caciquism"; it has a chaste expression that refers to this phenomenon. But it is a very broad, very heterogeneous concept and it can also be analyzed from many points of view: and anthropological, sociological, polytological, historical, legal. You – not in terms of your speech today, but in terms of what you have stated in writing in the formulation of the inquiry – seem to be interested in the legal issue, the strictly legal dimension. He wants to know what are the techniques, the legal instruments that can be incorporated into the law to limit, to prevent, to combat, say, political clientelism. And, in particular, it is interested in the measures that can be proposed in the legal order to limit, to combat political clientelism in the field of administrative contracting. Because political clientelism is given and has been given in many other areas also of public action, in public employment – the case of Baltar, for example, of the People's Party in Galicia – in infrastructure, in subsidies... in many areas. Moreover, it seems that what matters to him and concerns him is the study of the legal measures that can be taken to combat political clientelism, specifically in the procurement phase. And to that end, he asked what happened to the transparency law that the Government had promised and the lehendakari announced that he would soon be in the House. In connection with this matter, I can make two observations. First: Indeed, the Basque Government is processing this preliminary draft law. It is in an advanced state of processing within the framework of the procedure established for the elaboration of general provisions. Last week, the advisory legal committee issued its opinion. You know, this is the last way before the government can pass a bill and therefore we are making the last touches in the text. The bill will therefore be in the House in a few weeks. I can't tell you when, but soon. We're working on it. Second: You are talking about the law of transparency, but I, frankly, do not believe that the law of transparency is the right, the right, instrument to address the material regulation of political clientelism in administrative contracting, which seems to interest you. For that, there are other much more appropriate legislative instruments. The law of transparency does, it can contribute to creating the humus, the habitat, in which political clientelism has difficulties to emerge and to develop. But it will not prevent, it will not itself prohibit the existence of decisions and actions that may be qualified or involved in the field of political clientelism. There are other rules for that. There is the regulatory regulation of administrative procurement, the Public Sector Contracts Act, the one in force was adopted in 2011, and there is all the regulation that regulates conflicts of interest on the part of senior officials, which are the rules I believe, the normative parts called basically to regulate these issues. We could do a review of how these matters are found. The central Government is considering the reform of the Public Sector Contracts Act. There is a preliminary draft that is being turned around by the ministry, which has not been referred to the House, and we will not see it in this legislature, although the reform is essential, it is necessary, because there are three directives to be transposed before the middle of next year and therefore it will not be possible to delay excessively. That preliminary draft law does provide for a specific section on preventing cases of corruption and conflicts of interest in administrative procurement, but I believe that public procurement legislation is quite demanding at the moment, in terms of preventing the things you say, that recruitment with family members, with relatives, with friends, with relatives. It is very forceful in that regard. And the conflict of interest rules don't even tell him anymore. What you were telling me is legally prohibited, clearly prohibited by law. The problem is that big cases of corruption in Spain don't give way to hiring relatives and friends. If we review the cases of Barcenas, Correa, Punica, Matas, Rat, in all these cases there is no recruitment with relatives. There are testaferros, but not relatives, which is what seems to worry you. Well, anyway. What is the status of the transparency bill? Look, in the transparency bill, for what you seem to be interested in, transparency, there is an article, the 28th – you will be able to check it when the bill comes to the House or, if not, I can pass you a text of the preliminary draft that we are working on – which attempts to develop article 8 of the Transparency Act that the General Courts approved in December 2013, the Transparency, Access to Information and Good Government Act, which I am sure you know. Article 8 contains one paragraph, paragraph (a), which contains all the information that public administrations have to make public in relation to administrative procurement. All the information. Well, those provisions of article 8 are very broadly developed in the preliminary draft law that we are drafting, in article 28. In particular, from your amendments, from the amendments that you tabled against the draft law on public administration, which the Government withdrew and which is logically the basis of this new text, but this new text has been made on the basis of incorporating into the initial text, many of the amendments that you have tabled. In this chapter, specifically in the chapter on economic information, which has to be made public, 43 amendments from the parliamentary groups have been accepted and incorporated into the text, 15 in particular from the People's Parliamentary Group, and in particular those referring to what you comment on, the information on recruitment. Amendments 183, 185, 187 and 189, tabled by the People's Party, are incorporated into the text. The result, what do we want it to be? The result is that the threshold for active advertising in the field of procurement should be higher than that laid down on a basic basis by State legislation and above all the Autonomous Communities. And of course, superior to that set by the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party, such as Castile-Leon and Valencia that passed laws with frankly low thresholds in this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u54	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Well, although I was hoping that Mr Lehendakari would not answer me, because when I was preparing the inquiry I was expecting him, it is certainly disappointing. It is disappointing that, on an important issue such as this, an issue to which the institutions want to attach such importance, the maximum responsibility of the Basque Government, Mr Lehendakari, does not answer here today. And you, Mr. Erkoreka, I recognize your ability in two things. One, in which I imagine you keep it for the second intervention so you can't answer it; and two, in the escapism exercise you've done, that you can really go to the circus, because it's really worth seeing the escapism exercise you've done. He says you can send me the preliminary draft of the transparency law. Look, if you'd already passed the law we introduced, you wouldn't send it to me out of good will, but you'd have to send it to me because it was mandatory. But in the end, aside from that, I was referring first to the Ethics Committee. Look, the Ethics Committee, I keep telling you, it's a "Juan Palomo, I like it I eat it". That's right. There is parity, but the President has a quality vote. That they are taken unanimously, okay, and I do not question the prestige, but in any case you say "until the opening of the oral trial". Yes, but there are certain issues which, if reflected by law, are reflected by law. The question is that the Ethics Commission is regulating whether it is ethical, and is it ethical that someone who is accused of documentary falsity be at the head of a body responsible for issuing public documents? Do you think it's normal? Not us, but we still have a different view of things. And you were told that you have done an exercise in escapism, because you have not referred to any of the cases I have told you. Of course not! It's just that I didn't say, and I know you heard me perfectly, I didn't say that they were given contracts, grants or subsidies to family, friends, cousins, brothers. No, because that is forbidden by law, of course, but they are given to companies that are made up of relatives, cousins, brothers, brothers and sisters-in-law, and I can continue with kinship, of positions of the Basque Nationalist Party. And that charges from the Basque Nationalist Party leave an institution, set up a company and then that company is always awarded contracts from other institutions governed by the Basque Nationalist Party. That's political clientelism! Of course, Mr Atutxa did not give when he was a counselor or when he was president of this Parliament contracts to a company in which his children, brothers and sisters and other families were in, but because that was prohibited by law. But now, today has appeared, 68 million. If there's no more to follow up on. That you can do things? Sure. If you could on a screen, when you entered the website of the hiring of any administration and saw who the successful tenderers are, who make up the boards of directors of these contracting companies, and how many contracts have been awarded to you from how many institutions, they would skip the red lights, because they are always the same, always composed by the same and, of course, always linked to the Basque Nationalist Party. And what I asked you, you haven't answered me, and I was asking the lehendakari, first if it seems normal to you, because of course to try to end something the first thing you have to recognize is that it's not normal. Do you think it's normal? Does it seem to you, the Basque Government, that there are entrepreneurs who have already given up submitting to contracts or applying for subsidies or aid because they say they are given? Always the same, of course. Do you think it's normal? Well, if it doesn't seem normal to you, what are you going to do? Because there are ways to do it. First it takes willpower. What happens is that you here want to reflect that happy archadia that things happen outside of Euskadi, never inside Euskadi. And that here we talk about the outside, the Barcens, the EREs of Andalusia, but neither in ETB, nor in Deia, nor you ever make reference to your own cases, that is forbidden. "And of me, neither I speak, nor the others can speak. Even the others can't talk." Because there are certain issues, such as the press conference we gave yesterday, that the media do not get out. Why? Because they are not interested, because you are untouchable, and because you consider it normal for companies made up of members of the Basque Nationalist Party to take contracts, subsidies and subsidies from public administrations. Well, it's not. Do something to avoid it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u56	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Man, Mrs. Llanos, don't tell me I'm doing political escapism exercises. I began my speech by saying that I was going to respond to what you had stated in your letter. Here it is. Do we reproduce it? You want me to read it here by the rostrum? What do you propose here? No, no, what you were asking here is "What are the purposes of your Government in relation to the bill...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u58	Silence, please. Miss Llanos, that's enough.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u59	Let me talk, that I've been silent while you were talking. ...in relation to the transparency bill and the possible inclusion of precepts that avoid political clientelism?". And what was the star of his intervention? A journalistic information published today, based on a press conference you gave yesterday. Look, it turns out that I have to answer you now about the publication of the information on the basis of the press conference you did yesterday. Man! Look, if I have told you clearly that the rules governing the contractual performance of the public administration are quite forceful in order to establish the prohibitions on hiring. And in particular, as far as hiring with relatives, relatives and such – which seems to be what you were concerned about, the only thing; not the transparency, nor the regular performance of public administrations, but to say from the first family ties – is strictly prohibited by law, strictly. But by the law of the State and by the law passed last year by this House: 1/2014, of June 26, it was strictly forbidden. Therefore, if you have clearly, clearly and unequivocally evidence that you believe that there are contracts made with relatives – if that is strictly prohibited by law! – do not do press conferences, please!, you are slow to go to court. Don't do press conferences to come here to soften the published information here: "Look what has been published today"... And what was published today was the fruit of what you said yesterday at a press conference. Man, please! If there really are legal complaints, go directly to the prosecutor's office or directly to the court on duty, but don't waste your time on press conferences, if it's really that serious. You have reconverted the initiative. I have given you the information you were actually asking for on transparency. And I see you are interested in the transparency and publication of economic information by public administrations. You have wanted to cover up with that apparently angelic interest another kind of intention that you have come here to expose. I have given you the information and you have not echoed any of the data I have given you, that there are four amendments tabled by you which have been incorporated into the text. Because he was not interested in the text, he was not really interested in the text, and he made a mistake in the same initial speech. Look, I've told you, the prohibitions on hiring existing legislation are clearly set out. Prohibitions on the maintenance or conclusion of contracts by companies in which senior officials or related relatives are involved are clearly reflected in a law passed by this House just over a year ago. That is prohibited, that is illegal, and therefore raise with the appropriate bodies the illegality they must denounce. And on the other hand, the preliminary draft law on transparency, I insist, we are working on it, if anything interests you, we are working on it. They'll have him here in the next few weeks. I insist, if you have a real interest, next week I invite you to come through my office, or I come here myself and show you, and I show you in particular what the forecasts we have incorporated into the text in relation to these matters, and we will gladly incorporate new contributions that you have to say. I have here the article on the publication of data on recruitment. It says here "above what is laid down in the basic regulations of the State, which will be compulsory publication by the Basque Government in relation to the contractual activity, the contracts programmed the specifications of administrative technical conditions, the instruments through which the contract has been published, if it had been deserted and the dates of the formalization". Finally, a lot of aspects taken from your amendments, among others, which I assume will be sufficient for transparency. Another thing is that now, through a press conference, they want to incorporate into the public debate other aspects that only have tangentially to do with these. Because I insist, against this phenomenon that you denounce, against political clientelism, the law of transparency is not the most effective legal instrument, it is not the decisive one for this; it is other instruments, starting with the Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u60	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interlation of the United States, the members of the Basque Society of the United States, of the President of the United States, of the superiority of a new crew called "Freedom and co-habitation." Mrs. Quiroga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u61	Egun where you're going. Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, we want to transfer here today the proposal that the People's Party has made in the past full of general policy and we want, above all, to know its opinion. That is the reason for this interpellation, in which the People's Party brings this proposal, and we do so above all with complete conviction and, above all, because we believe that it can be an initiative to establish a common understanding on something basic. And so, lehendakari, I ask you to value this initiative as an exercise of understanding and possibleism. In fact, lehendakari, I have to tell you that this inquiry is addressed to you, but it is intended to be something more, it is intended to be an approach, a search for understanding between different, especially with those, in this House, with whom we are most distant, but whose contest, we know, we are aware and we recognize, is necessary to focus the present and future of Euskadi after the cessation of ETA violence, by the only possible way, by the only common agreement possible between the different sensibilities represented here. Different, it's true. But that in a future of coexistence for Basques must conclude under a single principle, the principle that violence was wrong, is wrong and will always be wrong. Or what is the same, the delegitimization of violence. In fact, in this very House, last week in the plenary of general policy and yesterday, a few words were uttered that are important to us. And it is that on the left abertzale it was said that those who use violence will always have them in front of them. But apart from those who have not done so so far, I believe it is something that can be taken into consideration. Because if there were now any facts, we could say that this House would unanimously condemn those facts. And that's why I think it's a good purpose, a just, indispensable position to build our society, armored against hatred, against any nostalgic temptation that can occur. Having as we have had, a story in which the use of violence destroyed our coexistence and damaged so many innocent people, their families and Basque society itself. In such a way that if you can guarantee today that you will face violence, I ask you one more step: that you acknowledge that it should not have happened either. That would be a big step. And the Basques as a whole will appreciate such a clear and necessary pronouncement in order to be able to address our future in complete honesty in freedom. Starting from the past in which an entire society and in particular the innocent victims of terrorism were denied such a possibility. This is our proposal, which we have put forward. A new reboot. A new restart in a new time. A time that cannot, even if some would, erase the past. The interpellation we propose, lehendakari, passes by leading a starting point and meeting in a new presentation called "freedom and coexistence". Since the present paper, lehendakari, does not bring possible agreements together. I told him at first to try to forget the reproaches – and I also do that exercise – because if we stick to certain interventions, even today, it is sometimes difficult. But I think we have to ignore all that, because this initiative certainly seeks to escape all reproach. The present presentation, and you know it, does not allow for a possible meeting point, because it leaves without a basic and fundamental premise, that ethical soil, that minimum common denominator possible to really sit on a table that serves as an example to the whole of society, that serves to make that union effective in the indispensable, which is what society asks of us, that is what society asks of us, to seal definitively the violence of our lives, that we have suffered the Basques and I have to tell you also that we, very especially. And I believe that our participation is indispensable, as indispensable is the participation of those who have not had a clear and unwarranted stand against violence. That is an essential step, that we who have always condemned all kinds of violence, who have suffered it in our own flesh, who have suffered it, and we have never resorted to it but to the law, can promote with those who were at least understanding, a meeting point. When that step has been taken without any counterpart, it is when politics is setting an example and building the basis for this not to be repeated, but that is without any counterpart. This is also an unnegotiable principle. Lehendakari, I would like you to understand this initiative as an open proposal from our group to channel the social need to move forward in freedom and coexistence, and you know that to do so we must cast doubt. The doubt that we all have in mind, the doubt of an Abertzale Left that I ask for the courage to at least now show that the words that we have heard here and that they also repeated yesterday translate into an express and clear recognition of rejection of the terrorist gang that has caused 92% of the violence in Euskadi. Because concord is not forgotten. Concordia is a citizens' pact to build the future, and that is what we are putting on the table today, lehendakari, because it is necessary to build that future. A citizen's pact is indispensable to build the future. That's what we're trying to put on the table today, a pact between the people that's guaranteed the future of all of us. A path, that of coexistence and freedom, that must be promoted, but it is only possible from a starting point. That point of departure among all, the sum of all. In order to build this future we must encourage life and freedom, but in order to do so the left patriot must assume certain ethical principles. We're willing. Facing the past is not an option, recognizing what each one did should not be. The recognition of the injustice of violence, the recognition of the damage caused, the dignity of the victims deserve all our efforts. Everyone's. What we propose today is to overcome the blockade of the present paper. What we propose today is to share a space among all and not to pose the presentation of each other against the other. What we propose today is what we consider to be the only possible way to truly face a coexistence in freedom in Euskadi. We really want to make steps. We're planning on proposing a potential development between all of us today. Open power. That's the only thing we're asking for. that all the groups of this power should die badly, that there is and that it will be. This is the only way. And that is why I ask you lehendakari, what is your position, what is your opinion on this proposal of the People's Party to create a new paper on freedom and coexistence that starts from the ethical principles coined in the last legislature and that are the only essential starting point for starting a future in coexistence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Quiroga, I do not really know whether what has been said is directed to me, or whether it is directed to the Abertist left, or to the EH Union. At any rate, I greet him this evening, I greet him, and say good-naturedly the words which he used, and the manner in which he used them. You have spoken, Mrs Quiroga, of understanding between different people, referring also on several occasions to pronouncements which were last week in this very rostrum and to which yesterday they were able to take place, either in written, published or verbal form. He made reference to running away from reproaches. I understand that the criticisms will also include the demonstrations that I heard from your parliamentary group this morning as well. But, in any case, I understand – and I greet you with all my heart – the meeting point to which you want to address your intervention, from a reboot in a new time that does not forget the past, as you have said. Mrs Quiroga, I begin by reiterating what I said to you last week: You can present this initiative to the House and it is up to all the parliamentary groups to take a decision on this. In any case, he makes an appeal to me, and I am aware that the dialogue between the political parties in this area remains an outstanding and necessary subject. That said, believe me if I tell you that I have analysed with great interest the writing you have submitted to justify this inquiry, as I have also followed with great interest your intervention in the rostrum, and I have done so because my purpose as a lehendakari is, and continues to be, to help create an advance in the field of peace and coexistence that can facilitate, precisely, the participation of all political formations in the presentation of this Parliament, in which it is blocked, starting from that presentation. You begin, in any case, your interpellation with the following statement, and it is: "The minimum ethical indispensable to build the future is to oppose any history justifying violence." And, indeed, it is that literal phrase that I uttered at the meeting I held with the victims on 4 and 5. I'm keeping her. And, as you propose, I have no problem in being part of the least ethical of the presentation of peace and coexistence, or of what results, according to your initiative. Indeed, one of our objectives must be precisely to avoid any history justifying violence. I share with you that this is a common and shared commitment, indispensable for establishing a useful work for society. And I think it is also up to the groups in this Parliament to work out this shared commitment, because what is certain is that this is the expectation of Basque society. In fact, what I sincerely believe is that Basque society expects from its representatives, from all of us, the ability to channel a double objective that I have set in this House on repeated occasions: to contribute to the definitive end of violence and to ensure a renewed principle of coexistence. But I am aware of the difficulties and recognize that there are partisan struggles. However, it is up to us and ourselves to promote political consensus between different people. And I'm willing to do it. Believe me sincerely. I mentioned in a previous intervention the victims participating in Eraikiz. They have given us a lesson: they have been able to meet, dialogue, overcome the most intimate and personal suffering. They have wanted to carry out in practice that shared reflection that is claimed here from one another. Well, the victims of one sign or another have done so. And they have made a common commitment. You know this initiative well. It was presented in Parliament with all humility and honesty. And I suggest that we take this document as a meeting point, of which I am going to quote only the principles, the convictions that we intend to share. It says: "We believe that human rights are an absolute ethics. Violence is inadmissible. It has been, is and will always be a failure. Violence has no justification whatsoever, in any case and in any way, not even as a response to the greatest of the injustices previously suffered. "It is necessary to know everything that has happened, to tell it in a faithful and complete way, to learn from it and to ensure that it never repeats itself. Our bet for the future is that coexistence is possible." This is what an important part of the document says, so the document begins. And today I invite and invite all the parliamentary groups in this House to demonstrate whether they share these principles, this starting point. I'm sure you do. If it is shared, I believe that there is a common working space in this Parliament, which is the Peace and Co-existence Paper to move forward on that firm basis. If these principles are shared and assumed, there should be no skills of exclusion or self-exclusion, and I am glad to hear from you, Mrs Quiroga, that in order to sit around a table, do not ask those who are already sitting on it to stand up. You talk about shared space. There is a space created, in which you are lacking, the Socialist Party is missing, UPyD is missing, and I believe that on the basis of the previous principles and on the basis of the compromised ethical ground, I believe it is possible to resume action. I repeat that I am aware, however, of the difficulties and therefore in the general policy debate I wanted to announce that the basic agreement for coexistence in which the Basque Government works, will be presented after the elections, because we also want to work with the next Spanish Government. And this agreement, as it cannot be otherwise, will once again have the so-called ethical soil, the so-called ethical soil, as approved by this Parliament itself. We have, therefore, many tools at our disposal and we will continue to activate them, always giving priority to the ultimate objective of the Government's Peace and Co-existence Plan, which is the social encounter. You ask me about the purposes of the lehendakari to resume the participation of political formations, as you say in your question in a new paper. And I would like to reiterate that it is not we who are presenting the initiative of a new presentation. It's you. The Government would be pleased if all political groups shared a space for dialogue in this area. Our mission as a government will continue to focus on the seven purposes that are already contained in the Peace and Coexistence Plan, and I quote them: "A commitment that the end of ETA does not mean to move on, without clarification, recognition, or explicit criticism of what has happened." This is what we say. "I promise that the memory and honour of the victims will not be relegated by a look at the future that forgets the past." This is what we say. "A commitment not to rewrite a justifiable history of terrorism, violence or human rights violations, as well as to oppose it and reject its use." This is also what we say. "Compromise that, without equalization, all victims, also those produced by illicit counter-terrorism, receive the recognition and reparation they deserve." This is also what we say. "Compromise that the end of violence is not transformed into revanchism against any sector but into integration and social vertebration of coexistence." This is also what we say. "Compromise that, within the framework of legal possibilities, social normalization addresses the issue of prison policy and also judicial policy, in a manner consistent with the new social reality." This is also what we say. "And a commitment that the end of violence means peace, normalization of coexistence and social encounter." Please be assured, Mrs Quiroga, that, in the area of peace and coexistence, the Basque Government's commitment will continue to be to give priority to consensus and participation in every action we take, that we will continue to act always by guiding our action through the social meeting, and this may be the shared purpose of resuming the participation of all political groups in that presentation. And I believe that the ethical soil, the ethical soil, the principles of the Eraikiz document that I have mentioned and the commitments of the Peace and Co-existence Plan, are a solid basis for moving forward in the participation of the political formations that you advocate, I think we are attuning, starting also with what is the participation of the People's Group. I therefore invite all the parliamentary groups, not to what may be the legitimate debate of a new paper to create, but to the existing paper, based on what is the ethical ground committed in the past legislature and in this current legislature, plus the pronouncements taken by those who have so far said, who have taken a step or are seeing that they can be steps forward, we take them to unlock the Ponence of Peace and Coexistence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Quiroga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, I understand that in the end in the full of control one more or less prepares what will be said and adheres to that script. And I think you haven't been able to understand that what I'm proposing to you, that this group is proposing to you, is changing the strategy, because the one you're carrying out, it's not working. If we take stock of three years, you have put many names, many initiatives here on the table. I respect them, of course, and I respect all the victims of terrorism and all the victims who have joined together and wanted, well, to share their pain. I respect all these initiatives, but if you exercise honesty, you will be aware that although you are doing as if you are making a lot progress, you are really only making progress, you do not know where, but you are not getting this Parliament, which is the representation of the will of the citizens, to move forward. You move, you do things, and sometimes you do things even that it would seem that what you are looking for is that we remain divided. Because Mr. Maneiro comes here every day with what they did to the mayors – it was ugly, it was ugly – and it seems like there's a will that instead of looking for meeting places, we should part more and more. Let us separate each time so that then you are that centrality and the two opposite poles that are there. If that strategy we all know. But you know what happens, that strategy hurts, and it hurts because we're talking about very serious things here. And that strategy of yours, that design they carry out from the Secretariat of Human Rights is not contributing to what the last legislature of all of us were able to settle down. There was a will there, there was honesty on the part of all and the will was to lay the foundations and get the Left Abertzale, who knew that in the next parliamentary term, in this one, he would come to Parliament, join us, come to us. But you from the minute one of this legislature is in another strategy, and it's a strategy that I respect, but it's getting more and more evident. And that does not build union among all, coexistence. You too will be drawing political results, I don't know, but tell me what progress this society has made in delegitimizing violence, if its highest representative body, which is the Basque Parliament, has not yet made a clear statement in that regard, that that would make progress. Listen, the problems that ETA has of how it dissolves, of how they solve the whole issue of prisoners, that they solve it in another area, but here we are to represent the citizens and to build a coexistence for the future, which obviously has to be from a recognition of what has happened back here, lehendakari. And I understand that you have a comfortable position, because you came here and said, "Well, if Parliament wants to do this, then let it do it, right? I'll tell you what. I tell him I'm still in my business, I'm still in my business." But it's just that that's going on with you, it's going on alone. Because you're still on a line where you're not able to aggregate all those we have to be there. You lead in solitary something that you are not able to bind everyone together. That's why it fails, that's why that paper you say it's alive, it's not alive, because it's born for purposes and on a basis that's not acceptable. That is why I believe that this debate has to take place here in this Parliament, that we have to be able to move forward among all of us, and that is clear. I appealed to you, not only as a lehendakari, but also because you are supported by one of the main groups in this Parliament, which is the Basque Nationalist parliamentary group. And that's why I wanted to know your opinion, and I feel disappointed, sincerely, because you've gotten out of the way, the lehendakari gets out of the way of an initiative that might have the opportunity to really start a new time, a new time, but with ethical bases on which we could all recognize each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Quiroga, I honestly believe that you are absolutely dislocated, totally dislocated. What does your second intervention have to do with your first intervention and the initiative you have put forward? What does that have to do with anything? Mrs Quiroga, you ask me in the inquiry what are the purposes of the lehendakari. And not as a parliamentarian of a parliamentary group that supports the government and the lehendakari. "What are the purposes of the lehendakari to resume the participation of the political formations that are represented in this House in a new paper?". You referred in the first intervention to abandon the ground of reproach. And it comes in the second intervention and is reproached after reproach to the lehendakari and the government. That's why I'm telling you you're off the hook, Mrs. Quiroga. That it is the Government that has to change the strategy and you are calling for the creation of a parliamentary presentation, and it links it with the Basque Government, which has its own Peace and Co-existence Plan, and that we are not alone, Mrs Quiroga, because I sincerely believe that you continue without having read the 18 initiatives of the Peace and Co-existence Plan and how many and who are the agents committed to the 18 initiatives of the Peace and Co-existence Plan and the development of them. You speak to me about the last legislature and set as an example the last legislature, a legislature in which the representation of the left abertzale was not present in the House, and the agreements of all others, but without the left abertzale. And in his first speech he talks about what is a purpose of an integral agreement between all political formations. Where are we? Which one of the cards do we have to play? You also point out that Parliament has never made a statement on these issues that you raised in the inquiry. Has Parliament ever made a statement? That the lehendakari has never made a statement? Look, Mrs Quiroga, you have also spoken about the basis of what is the presentation and question that the basis of the Ponence of Peace and Coexistence in this legislature is not the same as the basis of Ponence of Peace and Coexistence created in the last legislature. It's the same one. That is what is called ethical soil, Mrs Quiroga, and you approved it. That you feel uncomfortable sitting with the Left Abertzale... That is a problem to be solved, but it has nothing to do with another being the basis for the creation of the Ponence of Peace and Coexistence in this legislature. In any case, look, Mrs Quiroga, all my initiative and any proposal can be read, interpreted from the best possible side or from the worst possible side. You come here and in the second speech you reproach me with the written text. No, no, if the one with which you came with the written text is you in your first intervention, and in your second intervention you have gone through the hills of Ubeda. And, in any case, the problem is not that much that one prepares the intervention based on what is the interpellation. The problem is that you, who supposedly listen to me the answer to my first speech, do not understand what I am asking you. Look, I want to think that you have made this proposal because basically you believe that staying installed in the no and in a non-constructive criticism does not lead anywhere. This isn't good for anyone. I would like to think that this is precisely why you have made a proposal which proposes to build something and not just to say no. I would like to think that the problem cannot be only in the name and in this Parliament we have a position of peace and coexistence which is based on the ethical principles coined in the last parliamentary term, known as ethical soil. You now propose a presentation of freedom and coexistence that starts from the ethical principles coined in the last legislature, known as ethical soil, and I want to think – I am sure – that the problem cannot be in contrast between the words "peace" and "freedom". I would like to think that you have not made this proposal as a toast to the sun with the aim of adding the umpteenth party dispute to the account of peace and coexistence, as I thought in your second intervention. I want to think that you in the background believe that it is necessary to take steps and move forward. You know my commitment and my demand in this area, you know all Members of Parliament, and you also know the victims. I would like to think that as soon as this plenary is over, you are going to address the rest of the parliamentary groups to start talking about how to resume the work that, on the basis of the ethical ground, will allow us to jointly address the challenges that this context poses to peace, freedom and coexistence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "The question is, that Diana Carolina, the Gold Herrera, the lawmate of the EH gatherings, was made to the president about the involvement of women at the base of the Survival." Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Year after year we see in the sandland, Mr. Urkullu, the screams, the insults, the black plastics still in the street, a sign of violence against their partner. Does President Urkullu think that defiring among black plastics at the base of the sandrabi guarantees women's right to share equality in the festivals of their own country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Gold is a well-known role, Mrs. On the one hand he guarantees the parade of the Jazzil's company by means of the Security Department, by encouraging equality with this decision, and by means of the results, he works in favor of equality with his sensibilization lips and his missions. As President, I am willing to confirm the commitment to equality, and I am sure that, as in so many other areas, we will one day be able to establish the culture of equality in our own country. We are committed to equality and will continue to work for a guarantee of equality. That's how we've been doing it. The resolution, for example, passed by the Department of Security each year, ensures that Jaizkibel, the only company that allows women to participate equally, can parade. We would like, as you well indicate, for these plastics, or for the plastics not to behave. It would mean a step. Now, you, who are also a defender, and I applaud you, of freedom of expression, know that from a legal point of view that right limits our ability to prohibit the display of black plastics, and any action to remove them. In any case, I also reiterate my view that I would like those plastics not to behave. It would mean a big step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u73	We want to remind ourselves that the responsibility of public institutions is to protect and defend the equality of individuals, Mr. Urkullu. It's the responsibility of the council, of the City of Irun, of the City of Residents, of the Condemnation, the responsibility of the Redition, and it's the responsibility of all other institutions, and of all the rest of Rome. Every public institution, and every selected one, must publicly show commitments to equality, and endeavour to accomplish this equality. Because words reflect on actions. It's time for the principle of equality to make a firm step, so it's time for black plastics to disappear, so that the parade of your partner can be carried normally. Seriously, if this government wants to show its deep and pure commitment to the peer, it's got a perfect opportunity. We've proposed two legal proposals that can be accepted without any further trouble. First: "The legislature declares its support to the peers of Irungo and sandribi, the 4/2005 equality between men and women, and the purpose of advancing in a more just and equal society." And second: The American wants to remove black plastic plastics from the Home Department during the Sandyard celebration. Mr. Urkullu, I'm telling you as a woman to us, it's not enough for us to provide support for the results, and make positive statements about the banners of Irun and sandribi. It's the essential thing to help you work for the gift work with the institutional protection of the Euko-Mingoi. Go to the guest-friend's reception, Mr. Urkullu. As you say, if this government works for equality, show it in a firm way. Take a step forward! Urkullu jauna, I invite you to imagine that you are the father of a young girl who wants to parade together with her gang at the parties, in a parade in her traditional village, in which she wants to participate on equal terms, and finds that on the street she receives all kinds of aggressions: behind a black plastic, in front of a black plastic, with recordings, insults, harassments... All kinds of assaults. What we don't want for ourselves, we have to try to make it not happen to others. But a citizen on foot what he can do is simply support the boast. But the rulers, in this case the institutions, not only you, the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation and those rulers of the municipalities of Irun and Hondarribia, that the one of Hondarribia is also part of your party, have in their hands the possibility that this does not happen to other families, that any parent can go out and feel well, and your daughter can feel proud to go out and enjoy on equal terms. Because what's going on is unworthy. And really, there's a lot to do, and if you want, you can do it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. Urea andea, aipatu egin duzu erakunde orok izan beharko genukeela berdintasunarekiko konpromisoa, eta guztiz bat nator, guztiz bat nator. Eta aipatu egin duzu bi legez besteko proposed to say aurkeztuak, do not batan posetzen den konpromisoa ea beste batan posetzen da azierazpen-askatasunaren aurka joango litzatekeen kontu bat, éta lehenengo parte-hartzean aipatu said, and I repeat it again. You, I have told you so, who are also a defender of freedom of expression, must know that from a legal point of view, the right to freedom of expression limits what may be the ability to prohibit the display of black plastics. And I also told him what else I wanted black plastics to disappear, which I think would be a big step. You have made reference to the fact that it is not enough with Emakunde. Well, since you mentioned Emakunde, I do want to point out that Emakunde is proposing to open a space for dialogue to regain the union around the boast and overcome the social confrontation of almost 20 years. I think that with the years that we can have accumulated and with the look back, we can say that we have advanced, with small steps and with small attitudes, and we have advanced to a lower level of confrontation. And I'm sure we'll keep moving forward. As I also know, the solution will not come from imposition, but through dialogue and consensus of all the institutions, also of the local institutions that you have mentioned. I would like to recall that there are precisely many localities that, with the support of the citizenry, are taking steps to adapt their traditions to ensure the equal participation of women and men. And this does not mean going against tradition, but offering the same rights to men and women and, therefore, updating, adapting to other times and enriching that tradition. I stress what Emakunde's work is as a representative of what is the whole Basque administration, particularly that which affects the Basque administration of the Basque Government. And Emakunde will continue to work on education and social sensitivity in favour of equality, and this continued commitment allows us today to launch a message of hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u76	Thank you, Mr. President. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the president, a member of the American police, Cristina Ruiz Bujedo Euscal Group, cases of profundity and sexist attacks." Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u77	Egun on. Thank you, Madam President. This summer has left us with a desolating and very worrying record of gender-based violence. Reviewing the crimes and aggressions of the past few months, of course, outrages us and shakes us all. Cases with dramatic results and fatal casualties have strongly impacted Basque public opinion. People are shocked and wonder how to avoid this very serious social problem. But they also look at us, their representatives and institutions, in the hope that new policies can deliver better results. In Euskadi, despite efforts and campaigns by different administrations to raise people's awareness of this issue, they have not had the desired optimal effects. This summer, unfortunately, we had to protest to demonstrate our rejection of such behaviors and condemn aggressions in our towns and cities: Getxo, Bilbao, Barakaldo, Vitoria. One more year, festivals in different Basque localities have served as an alibi for those who do not respect the fundamental freedoms of women and attack them with violent and sexist attitudes and behaviour. With the conviction that concern is shared by all political groups and civil society, I would like to ask you, Mr Lehendakari, the following question: Is your Government considering new policies and reviewing existing ones to combat gender-based violence and gender-based aggression?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u79	Madam of the Parliament, thank you. Mrs Ruiz, violence against women is indeed a worrying reality; an attack on human rights and the more extreme manifestation of the inequality of women and men still existing in our society. This is what I said – since you referred to the facts that were known in the summer – and this is what I said in my public intervention after the first government council after the summer. Eliminating this violence is a constant priority for all institutions. And this was also shown in the general policy debate in this House last week. And I showed the Government's willingness to reach consensus and increase the necessary measures. That's how I did it. And, in recognition of gravity, in any case, I want to offer a data. Between January and August 2014 – last year, between January and August – a total of 2,852 women came to Ertzaintza for violence against women, 2,852. This year, in the same period – between January and August this year – there have been 2,783 women attended. With the comparison, I don't want to minimize the issue. The data show, in any case, that we have a serious problem for which we must continue to work, because a single case would be a sign of concern. The Act on Equality of Women and Men, the Sixth Equality Plan and the rules governing programmes and services in this area reflect all existing policies. They all respond to work lines that have an international consensus and it is understood that they are the best ones to advance in the eradication of this violence. Now, you ask me whether I am thinking about it or whether we are thinking about reviewing it. For, indeed, you propose to review and improve, and I will tell you that Emakunde has created a specific area of work precisely in order to review and improve its policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u81	Yes, thank you, Madam President. I didn't have the written answer, because I was at the expense of knowing if I was going to review something or not, because the policies that are made and the plans that exist I know them. The issue is that year after year – and that is being accused in holiday times – we see that there are cases, and somehow we also run the risk of internalizing it as if it were something inevitable. The same example is not the best, but like the war of flags, there came a time when he was no longer paid attention. Well, I'm worried about the same thing. I know the Beldur Barik programme, the awareness campaigns that have taken place. But all that, which was to anticipate cases of sexual assault, this year has not given the results that should be. And there's some data, it's true that the issue of data all depends... There are ways and ways to compare us, but there's one I was worried about this year when they were talking about a 20% increase in forensics for sexual assaults. And I do not think, Mr Erkoreka called it significant but punctual. Puntually, I don't know how you can say punctually, because until we have data from other years, that can't be said so openly. The case is that we cannot settle for the inertias of policies that have been done for a long time, because the results are not the desired ones, and especially among adolescent people. That is why my question was – and he has announced to me that it is going to be done, I trust that they will make us known soon, if we do not make parliamentary initiatives to do so – what these new policies really are, what they are going to be reviewed and what they are going to change so that next year we do not have to ask this question again from my political group to the lehendakari. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. Recognized, Mrs Ruiz, the seriousness of the facts and the seriousness of the issue, and thus expressed further in my appearance before the media at the first government council after the summer, recognized also that we are talking about gender-based violence, domestic violence, we are talking about sexist aggressions, we are talking about a typology or typologies also with its nuances. In any case, to say that "the results are not the desired ones"... Obviously, they are not the ones desired to the extent that we have them on time. I think it is also worth doing a series and a sequence of what the results may be, but I am going to the greatest seriousness of the issue. And also appealing to what you have mentioned with the Nahiko program, aimed at the earliest ages... I believe that programmes such as the Plan for Co-education and Prevention of Violence against Women or the Beldur Barik programme, aimed at preventing violence among young people, and the specific training plan for staff working in the various existing programmes and services, can also be mentioned. And all this would have to be analysed in what is a series and sequence of certain years. But, I insist, the situation is serious. We are concerned, but we do not want to be alarmed either by specific data on what is a summer, but also by looking at what are the comparisons and hoping for what is the future result of the programmes implemented. In any case, the attitude of improving awareness-raising, prevention and comprehensive care for victims of violence against women is constant. And I believe that the parliamentary groups know these measures in detail for their participation in the Emakunde Council as well as in the Equality Commission. There we will have an opportunity to review the policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u84	Thank you, Mr. President. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of the U.S.A.R.R.R.A.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.S.A.S.S.S. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u85	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. This question, of course, will not sound new to you. I have been heard many times about this subject and I have asked the various advisers affected by the way in which they are going to manage it. And the question is direct: When are they going to attend to those who cannot pay their electricity or gas bills and cannot access other aids, to those who have to go to charity to have something so elementary? It is a simple question for which we believe that the date should already be on his Government's agenda. It is to give an answer to the citizens, it is to respond to a reality that you first refused to accept over the last year and that you then had to assume. And they had to take it in front of the evidence pointed out by all the reports, even by their own. The evidence that even though we have the best model of social protection, there are cracks that we must plug. In recent budgets, we Socialists have introduced a specific item, EUR 200,000. In March, we offered them a way of agreement with the organizations willing to cooperate in the task. It is October, Mr Lehendakari, when are you going to fulfil the parliamentary mandate, including your own commitment?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u86	Thank you, Miss Rojo. In reply, Mr. Toña has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u87	Mr. President, Mrs. President, Congressman, good morning. Ms. Rojo, we'll try from the department I'm running, so that the Basque population won't be able to meet the nerds and not interrupt their lights, gas or water supplyings. With the date of May 2015, on the 12th, we drafted a collaboration agreement between the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and the Red Cross, where two lines of work were collected: on the one hand, checks and supplies and, on the other, accompaniments and training. That is why we intended to respond to both the first and second terms of office of Parliament. The Government is aware of the activity, the proposals being developed by the Red Cross in this area. It considers the Red Cross as a strategic subject for the development of this type of benefit to individuals and families who, under various circumstances, present various problems, such as energy poverty and the other refugees we are seeing over the course of these weeks. The procedure of the convention, it is true that since May it has been extended in time, not because of our responsibility, but because of the issuance of a mere seizure that the president of the Spanish Red Cross had to grant before the notary in favor of the president of the Autonomous Committee of the Red Cross of the Basque Country and that it has not been possible to become effective until mid-July. But I can say in this Chamber and at the moment, that next Tuesday, 6 October, we will proceed to the approval of the subsidy by the Governing Council for this energy poverty line. And on the second non-law proposal, which we were urged to mediate with energy companies to make it possible to renegotiate the debt of families, not to suspend the non-payment supply, and so that if there were economic reasons, we could act. In this respect we have contacted all the most important supplier companies in the sector, as a result of which we have held meetings with the most important ones, with which they have contacted us, and arranged, which have been Iberdrola, Endesa and Union Fenosa.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u88	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u89	Let's see, counselor, that's an initiative that's much longer than you've said. First, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has been bringing this up for more than a year in which you denied the reality. Secondly, we have managed to negotiate a budget item with you in the budget. It took three months to recognize that they had no solution and that they did not know how to do so. In March we put the solution on the table, which is the signing of the agreement with the third sector, we even knew more or less which entities might be interested in, because of the way they have to help in these kinds of situations. They had the agent who was willing to do so, they had the budget line, they recognized that they had the written agreement, they defined the Red Cross as the strategic subject to carry out this, and they said that, of course, until mid-July, the Red Cross took a long time to issue those powers to the notary of Red Cross Spain. It's just that reality is different depending on who tells it and, as in everything, there are two versions. You have asked many, many bureaucratic steps to be able to sign this agreement to an entity that has signed many agreements with you, because it is a very important entity, collaborating with governments and which is above what has to do with this type of aid. The reality is that we are in October, you will already be working on the budget draft that you are going to present to us in this House, and you have not fulfilled the previous one. And look what time we have, it's winter on the table and entities are advancing a money you committed to giving. So, I think that recognizing the delay and recognizing the problems there have been, you will have to put in place measures or tools so that this does not happen again. But that initiative which the parliamentary group proposed and which was adopted also had a point of the future, because in fact what was intended was that the third sector was involved, mainly in this budget exercise, since, for reasons of time and strategy, it did not give time for the Government to put in place any other kind of tools, but it forced you or forced you to think about what you were going to do in the next budget exercise, and I do not know why it gives me anything on that side. It took almost ten months to sign the agreement. That is, a commitment of 200,000 euros that you knew from the beginning that it was not going to solve the problem, but, well, that it was something symbolic in the commitment that the Government understood it had to do to say that it was interested in something that you had been denying for a year. So, man, you're telling me you're signing it on Tuesday 6, 'cause I'm glad. But I do not know what would have happened from the Socialist Group would not have presented this initiative and if Mrs Idoia Mendia had not spoken about this in the plenary of general policy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u90	Thank you, Miss Rojo. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u91	Mrs. Red, in March different entities were present to sign this agreement, which were Caritas and the Red Cross, we finally had to identify the Red Cross. To sign an agreement, you know very well, the Socialist Party knows very well, that it is not simple, because of the administrative procedures it has. In any event, I would like to point out that in the outcome of our meetings with the energy suppliers, they have been in favour of reaching an agreement and of renewing the debt of the families, which will paralyse the processes of suspension of electricity and gas supply, will be requested to reinstate the supply if it had been suspended by default before receiving the communication from the Red Cross, will provide detailed information on all outstanding beneficiary invoices that are subject to suspension of supply in order to be able to reach an agreement, and will advise and inform the Red Cross on various aspects. With the adoption next Tuesday of this departure that has taken, indeed, longer than we would all have wished, of course the departures will certainly be planned for this winter that has not yet fortunately arrived, but that will be properly directed, in the hands of the Red Cross to meet the needs of energy poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u92	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, Joseph Antonio Pastor, a member of the Basque Socialists, of the president's constant training for the Basque Workers." Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u93	Yes, Your Honor, with your permission, to answer the question.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u94	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. He's got the word, Mr. Toña.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u95	Mr. President, Mrs. President. Good day to the members of the legislature. Asked the question, Mr Pastor, the texts of the calls for the training of the employed workers were approved by the Hobetuz employers on January 15, 2015 and sent to Lanbide for processing. The ECO proceeded to issue the relevant positive reports and the Governing Council approved them. A Royal Decree-Law for the Urgent Reform of the Vocational Training System for Employment was published in the State Official Gazette on 23 March. On the same day, the ECO sent us a letter to the Directorate-General of Lanbide stating that after the publication of the royal decree, the legal framework on which the draft calls were reported had been substantially modified, and it was therefore recommended that the texts be redrafted. On 31 July, Lanbide submitted two new texts for the issuance of the relevant reports to the ECO. On 10 September 2015, 22 days ago, the Law 30/2015 regulating the system of vocational training for employment in the workplace was published in the BOE. Following the publication of Law 30/2015, on 10 September, the ECO is obliged to re-read the legal texts, as this new legal text includes an additional provision that sets out a new legal scenario for the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. We are in a continuous process of delay as a result of the continuous changes in legislation introduced by the Central Government and the Congress of Deputies. Under no circumstances is the delay due to economic reasons, but rather to legal aspects, which are intractable and which have been extended throughout this process until 10 September. The department's plan has always been to advance these callings of scholarship, especially because it's very important for the organization and training of the people at work. Yesterday, 1 October 2015, the ECO issued us two reports for the two calls that were pending: a positive report on the direct call for companies and a negative report on the call for training centres. In conclusion, it will be necessary to propose to the Lanbide Board of Directors the modification of the call for training centres in order to adapt it to the report issued to us by the ECO. The failure to publish the Hobetuz calls to date has therefore not been due to budgetary problems, but to the legal uncertainty in which we have been immersed by the change of legal model. Continuing training has not stopped during this year, because since 8 January 2015 Hobetuz's calls for such training have been resolved. Looking to the future, it is our intention, and thus we have worked on the operating societies, to begin with the cultivation of how these deliberations and subjugations can be directed from the profession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u96	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u97	Yes, thank you, President. Mr Toña, this is the third time this year that my group has been interested in the issue of continuing training for employed workers, an issue that we believe is fundamental in an environment of crisis and rapid change in production processes. At the beginning of March, I asked you about the delay in your Government's approval of the courses for that year, which the Hobetuz employers had already left ready in December last year. I also expressed the suspicion that they were sleeping the matter in order to allow time for the PP Government to approve the reform it had announced in this area and thus save a few million dollars. You told us that there was no delay, that the planned courses would be given yes or yes, and that the decree of the 2015 call would be approved by the Government on 24 March. And it happened what we feared, that Mr. Rajoy was more diligent than you and approved the Royal Decree of Continuing Education Reform before the Basque Government called for it. Three days later I asked you again about that announced trigger and you told me that there was no choice but to leave on the table of the Governing Council the call to adapt it to the basic requirements of the royal decree-law, as you have just told me now, but that your Government was going to call all the courses planned and that it was your will to preserve and promote continuing training. The question is when this is really going to be done. We are in October, it has been six months since then, and around 50,000 Basque workers continue to wait for a training that will allow them to improve their professional training, because the 2015 call decree has not yet been approved by your Government and the award procedure, as is normal and you know perfectly well, takes your time. He has tried to explain to us the causes of the unusual delay, but that confusion would probably have been avoided if they had approved the call before March 20, as I told them, because time and warnings this Government had plenty. We have confirmed what we have already seen since March, that 2015 is going to be a lost year for continuing training in Euskadi, even to put at risk some companies dedicated to training, which are seeing themselves in distress already at the moment, especially at the moment when the training of workers is most needed. And your Government, Mr Toña, cannot wash its hands, because it has been the main player in this failure. By inability to manage, by political calculation, because it is very good for them to save money, I do not know, but in any case, it seems to us that the Socialists understand that training is something very important, fundamental to the progress of society, both at school and at work and throughout people's lives, taking into account the very urgency established in the speech of the plenary of general politics by the lehendakari regarding the fourth industrial revolution and industry 4.0, which obviously needs perfectly prepared workers. However, for some reasons or for others, this has not been possible. I already knew that the ECO had sent the report, I knew that it was going to be sent to Lanbide, but in any case 2015 is about to end and continuing training has been absolutely lost. And I am sorry to say this, but what has been attempted has been done late and wrong, and at the same time at the expense of the Socialist Group, because if not, I have my doubts that the reports would have been evacuated in the time when they were made.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u98	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u99	Mr Pastor, you have much more parliamentary experience than I do. I've spent all my time, thinking you weren't going to use the second, naively. So now I don't have time to answer. I assure you that all this, in any case, has been prepared by you to do so, and in my case to do so in this way. But the party and the government want and have as much interest as you do in making formation possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u100	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Time is up. fourteen points in theme list: "The question is, that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto of the House ofUPyD members of the United States Administration and Justice, about the public expressions on the occasion of the election." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u101	Yes, thank you, President. Mr Erkoreka, I have a question that I think is interesting, although it may seem that it does not affect the Basques. I think it does affect us, because this is a matter relating to democratic pedagogy that every public representative must carry out in relation to compliance with the law in force. The truth is that quite a long time ago, about two and a half months ago, you expressed your rejection of the adoption of traumatic legal measures, such as the suspension of Catalan autonomy, advocating for dialogue and bilateral negotiation to lead the debate on Catalonia. These statements were alluded to by the Minister of Justice, Rafael Catalá, who said that article 155 of the Constitution is fully in force and its use is possible. We have not been surprised by the content of the Councillor's statements, after all we already know that Basque nationalism has always maintained a principle of solidarity with other nationalisms, especially with regard to non-compliance with the current law and in the defence of its particular interests. But it certainly draws our attention, that you define as traumatic, certain legal measures that are incorporated in the Spanish Constitution itself. Mr. Erkoreka, is compliance and enforcement traumatic? Are the nationalists above the law? Doesn't the current law affect them? Isn't the law the same for everyone? Nor, by the way, can you blame Mr. Mas when he violates the law and endangers coexistence? Should we not always defend the rule of law everywhere, without excuses? Do you think it is a good exercise of democratic pedagogy to say or come to say that it is better not to apply the law in certain circumstances? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u102	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mr. Erkorek is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u103	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, I fully share with you the desirability of doing democratic pedagogy. That's why you have to start by specifying what you've said and what you haven't said. You have asked me questions regarding statements that I have not made at any time. I was wondering if it's preferable not to apply the law to apply it, things I've never pronounced, either at that time or at any time. But, look, as we are in the field of democratic pedagogy, it is good to remember what article 155 of the Constitution, to which my statements and those of the Minister to whom I went out to respond, actually consists. Look, this is a precept that empowers the central Government to intervene politically in an autonomous community, forcing its legitimate representatives or legitimate rulers to take certain measures that they have not taken, or adopting them on their own, on the margins and regardless of what they think and what those legitimate representatives or legitimate rulers think. This precept contains a mechanism that almost unanimously the juspublicist doctrine has considered to be a foresight, an extreme, exceptional mechanism, is the last ratio. Look, it has come to say that "it is the most explosive of the articles of the Constitution" and has said nothing less than Cruz Villalón, professor of constitutional law, president for years of the Constitutional Court and current State councillor by election. But well, if you tell me that you have an excessively progressive profile for you, the current president of the Constitutional Court, Pérez de Los Cobos, even at the same time that I made that statement, he said that he personally is not in favour of applying this precept. Therefore, in the past 40 years, none of the governments that have succeeded at the head of the State Executive have activated this mechanism, none, none, nor those of UCD, nor those of PSOE, nor those of PP. Everyone shares with the doctrine that it is an exceptional mechanism, extreme, last ratio and even, as Cruz Villalón said, the most explosive of the articles of the Constitution. It seems that I am not alone in classifying this precept as very exceptional. And like me, many others recommend the adoption of alternative measures, which to solve political problems are negotiated, dialogue and political initiatives. And not legal measures of this kind. Man, an intervention by an autonomous community is a frankly traumatic legal measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u104	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u105	Yes, thank you, Mr Erkoreka. It is an exceptional measure, of course, which must be applied to exceptional situations. I think what's really explosive is breaking the law. That's really explosive: breaking the law. And so, what I think any political representative, you too, has to do is defend law enforcement, defend the law and enforce it. And therefore, it seems to me that it is a negative exercise of democratic pedagogy to come to say that certain articles of the Spanish Constitution do not have to be applied. What do we do if the Government of Catalonia fails to comply with the law? Because I am concerned about this as a citizen of a country called Spain. It obviously affects me and it is my business. What do we do if the Government of Catalonia fails to comply with the law in force? Do we keep our arms crossed? Is that your choice? Do we stop the rule of law? Shall we put him on pause? What do we do if the Catalan Parliament unilaterally declares independence? What do we do about that situation? What do we have to do? Clearly, political problems are resolved by dialogue and by talking. Obviously, yes. One thing is dialogue, it is also true, and another is blackmail. Dialogue, within the law, always; but in the face of a situation in which the certain fact may arise that there is a specific autonomous community that decides to violate the law, I believe that what any political representative, and also ours and the Basque Government, has to defend is that the current legality must be respected. That is why I do not agree that you consider it a traumatic legal measure a legal measure that is perfectly incorporated in the Spanish Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u106	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u107	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, I thank you very much for the opportunity you offer me to continue doing political pedagogy. Let's start with the precisions. I have not said at any time that this article does not have to be applied. I have said that, in my view, the enabling budgets provided for in the article are not provided for in the terms in which the central government is empowered. Simply for me, it is not relevant at this time to use this article. I am not saying that it does not have to be applied, I am saying that it is not appropriate to apply at this time, because the alleged fact in the article is not given. But since I see you very involved with compliance with the law, since you share with me the need to comply with the law, I will ask you for a favor. You who make systematic proclamations in defense of the requirement of law enforcement, I will ask you for a favor; incorporate into the laws to be complied with the Organic Law 3/1979 of 18 December, that of the Statute of Gernika. Please, that does not require any condition of any kind. That is where competences are envisaged which had to have been transferred a long time ago to the Autonomous Community and which successive governments have refused to transmit. And I never, I don't know why, have I ever heard you demand the central government to comply with that law. I've never heard of him. It's the only law whose compliance seems irrelevant to you. Please also do so, ask for compliance with the Statute of Guernica, which is also Organic Law, and in force for almost 40 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u108	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question of the future participation of the Arkbanks in the industrial scope of EH ERGs." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u109	Yes, good morning, everyone. Thank you. On September 23rd, the President of the Villaveria, who had made some statements and had reflected in these statements about the strategic course of the trunk or bank. As for the rest, as far as the bank is concerned, he had announced the intention of selling something or part of it. And in front of that, our question is, our question to the chief physician, whether he thinks that the entire development process of the depresies announced by the Arkbank may endanger the attachment of a hundred manufacturing members to the country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u110	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments and congressmen. Straight in answer to your question: No, I don't think he's in danger. First, because history has shown the most difficult conditions, even if possible, that our business, our hundred of industry, has an immense connection with this people, its attachment, its deep roots, and its commitment. The Arkbank has the same vote and root, and has more than once expressed it. And even in this case, if you hear what he said, he said. Kutxabank defines itself as an industrial financial services company. Therefore, the industrialist carries it in his vocation and definition. On the 23rd of September to which you allude, I came and was there, I heard firsthand what the president was saying. And in addition to all that you refer to, you clearly, meridianly and forcefully affirmed the commitment and vocation of collaboration with the Euskadi industry. Especially with the SMEs in this country. It was a central and very focused part of his speech. In his speech, the vocation of permanence and of working with the tractor companies of this country was clear. Key and strategic sectors. That's right, in different shapes and formats. And I also remind you that Kutxabank continues to participate, and has a permanence vocation, along with the outlaws and the Basque Government itself, in another Euskadi industrial participation fund, such as Ekarpen. So, summarizing, concern right now about what you're asking, none.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u113	Yeah, well, it's troubling me not to worry about you. I don't say that this connection is going away, but at least I think it's your job to take care of these things and control them. And I don't say that we have to do catastrophism, but we have to keep track of what the Arkbank does. I would also like to congratulate you on having been at that meeting in Cebek, because at least, well, you witnessed the Kutxabank president's dignity to present his plans, logically, to the business world. When some Kutxabank representative is claimed from this House, they tell us that they don't want to know anything about us. It seems that this is where the issues are raised, at meetings of business associations. They are owed explanations, public representatives, it seems that Kutxabank owes none. But at Kutxabank things are happening. In Kutxabank the decisions and steps that take place have an impact beyond those that have any other company in this country. And that forces us to be very careful with all the steps we take. We don't think we can accept compensation in a short period of time for the new north of the role of the Arkbanks. We know that Kutxabank is a bank, but its owners are the banking foundations, which are heirs and must be continuations of the foundational spirit of the boxes. That's why we're very clear, that we and we aren't going to get banked by cash. We are going to have an absolutely vigilant attitude, with regard to what steps Kutxabank can take in this area, as we have had a vigilant attitude at other times, and I also think it is right. The defence of its own productive fabric through the facilitation of access to credit, but also through the control or participation of a number of key companies, is a key function of Kutxabank. I am glad that this has been ratified, but it is now true that a process of divestment is taking place and that new divestments have been announced, and I therefore believe that this is a matter of priority attention, or should it be for this Government, to monitor, control and to ensure that this process does not really endanger the union of these companies with the country. We do not say that there can never be any part of it, we do not say that the Arkan does not possess a marge according to the proper criteria of development of his activity, but there must be public control and public attention in the matters of the strategic key. It's important to know what to sell and what to do, for instance, we have to guarantee the connection to the country, to defend the strategic bets. We wouldn't mind if investments like Caja Sur were abandoned and other bets of this kind that have nothing to do with Basque productive fabric. It is important to be on top of this process of disinvestment to see what is sold and what is not, and that what is sold is not something that is strategic, and also to who is sold, because it is important to look in the industrial area for partners and not funds that are looking for speculation and short-term business, because that can have absolutely counterproductive results, can guarantee capital inflows, but then you can assume that whoever is controlling companies important to the Basque fabric has no union with this country and all that you want is short-term profit, as we have perfectly in the case of Euskaltel, where by selling to investment funds, those funds have carried an anti-work policy, destroyed employment and made an absolutely speculative gamble. That's not what we want for Kutxabank companies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u114	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u115	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Casanova, the attention, the tracking, the responsibility... all these, of course, and that's what we do. But it must be mentioned, and I've told you the other day, I repeat, the Arkbank himself says he'll keep all the sectors that belong to the strategic. Esan beharra dago 3,121 miloi dituela aportizio desberdinetan, eta berak aipatu zuen, éta ia hitzez hitz esango dut: As Kutxabank disinvests in certain shares of "strategic interest", the former caisses and current owners, Kutxa, BBK and Vital, "to the extent that they are foundations with large assets and financially healthy", could take those shares. In this way, the presence of the Kutxabank group in these types of strategic-level companies would be maintained. So when you hear anything, you must hear everything, not only a part of it, because he mentioned how to do it. Not only that, I told you at this moment, he's a part of the contributor, even in the course of the long run, lending loans, loans, and shares in the international processes, so he participates with the Foundations and the unions, so the Arkban remains involved with our corporations. Not only that, the president himself has commented on more than one occasion, and this week I have also had the opportunity to be with him and listen to him on two other occasions, on 29 and 30, reaffirming his vocation of caring for SMEs, of helping industrial growth in Euskadi, his participation and his contribution in investments has grown by more than 60% compared to last year, and that also helps to make data such as the one we have known this morning of the industrial production index of Euskadi, which is constantly rising and improving, a reality. Therefore, Kutxabank, as the President himself said, remains absolutely involved and committed. Not only involved, and you know perfectly well what I'm referring to. So, the Arkban is a bank, but if he has three foundations and the whole team is engaged with our companies, and of course we'll follow what he does and how he does it, and we have several tools for it and I've told you about them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Interpelation, made of the Parliaments of the Belsen Rocke Under-Square Society, to treat well of the measures of long-continued labouring. " Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u117	Thank you. Good noon, everyone. When you introduced the Economics and the jobs program, then 2014-2010-6 Plan, you promised to create 32,000 jobs. We must now say that, owing to these plans, at least at present, no permanent employment has been produced, and still less of quality. Monday, at the Enplegu Committee, we'll repeat what we've said about jobs we had at the head of the department. We don't agree with the positive ratings you make about jobs and jobs plans. The reality of the day is something else. Months up, months down, we've met some data today, 16 percent of unemployment, over 155,000 people. The quality of a job that is to be found is very little. It's 92% of the contract and 83% of the resulting contracts are less than 83 months old. And worse still, 40% is less than a week. In this situation, can positive ratings be made around the outcome of the employment plans? Can you say they're fulfilling the targets? We think we don't, and we think we should change direction. But today, specifically, we want to discuss the situation of long-term unemployed people. We find it a very serious situation. 83,000 people have been unemployed for more than two years. People who are at great risk of being chronicled in this situation, of being forced to spend their lives in unemployment and, therefore, to fall into poverty and social exclusion. Evolution, the development that is taking place, is even more worrying. Today there are 12,000 more people than a year ago who have been unemployed for more than two years. Long-term unemployment has increased by over 16 % over a year. And if we refer to 2008, the data is chilling: from 12,300 people who have been stopped for a long time, it has increased to 83,000, seven times more. Today, more than 50% of people who are unemployed in Araba, Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia are unemployed and long-term unemployed. Among them, many people over 45 years of age. And this situation can only be described as dramatic. It's a drama. Thousands of people live in this state, day after day. And others see themselves in the danger of falling into this state. What about in front of this? What is the position we are going to take, take or do, the measures to move forward? Despair, despair, is not acceptable to this injustice. And that's the way we see it, you know, more than once, sitting and falling in despair. The job director said a long time ago that the 900,000 unemployed are very difficult to get to work. It's obvious that even when you said that you were on the committee, even though the development of the Economics is bigger, it doesn't bring jobs into being. And in the same way, president of Confebask has just said that maybe he'll have to get used to it from Basques with 15 percent unemployment. And it's not even acceptable for efficiency. More than two years on the job without making any visible progress. It's been two years since Mr. Aburto said, "la RGI hrola de narta de geneantía de ingresos hu comid a Profession." Two years without a step. This week most of the Professional unions signed the agreement, you signed it. Good. It must be said that the effect of the pressure of the unions and workers has been the effect of a change in the initial state of fun. And we really hope it's a starting-point for change. In short, that's what I'm like: to announce that despair, efficacy, and many propagandas will produce thousands of jobs. Besides, you say that these employments are giving rise to results, and you value them in a positive manner, you say that ends are complete. And it's not true at all. Reality is cruder and you know that too. Plans, yes, no effective measures to deal with this situation. In addition to your own effort, public policies are crucial to turn the situation around. We even said it at the board, and we're not going to get tired of repeating it, we have to put jobs policies in another direction. There's a lot to do. Let us begin to take exact measures to prevent long-term unemployment. We think it's time to do something. This subject, as I said before, is dramatic. What do these people need? What do they need people who are in long-term unemployment? I'll mention some of the jobs about what we have to do. One. Interaction. They need the intervention of the work bites. The percentage of the profession was requested to reach 15% in the legislature. Now it's much lower. You say that you will not fulfill it; we say that we ought to have sufficient means of reaching it. A proper orientation is required, a personal and permanent orientation, a motiver, from the public jobs service service. It's not done these days. It's a effective preparation. Considering the necessity of every man's needs and of his wants. Now, as many people say, they take courses for doing so and knowing they won't be useful to them at all. That's the end of it. We must review it, considering formal and non-form education as a whole. To visit their employment graves is necessary to find and create them. Even if we can do a job over there. The protected theme, the social clauses, the market-serves, to make it useful in the entire sector under the public world to facilitate the access of these people. To use local development: the regional work together with its local operators, the development agencies, and the obligation. Use the close tools to achieve goals in the interaction. To start the new planet and strategic in active society. By the way, I say nothing new: most of the things here mentioned were admitted in this monography on the profession. But what have you done with this? What steps did all this take? We think he didn't do the job. That plans have been put, that after numbers are given, but that real jobs policies have not been developed in action, in their entirety and various furrows. We therefore, as a conclusion, demand once more, without privatization, without assistance to private enterprises, and without intermediary, a strong and refractory office of employment. This is our study, reflection, and the furrows we put on the table. That's because the situation these people live in is serious and dramatic, and they have to take precautions from our own point of view. And that's why today we're interpolating the chief physician, so that he can explain what measures he's prepared to provide for long-term idles.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mr. Toña has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u119	Mrs. President of the Parliament, Congressman, good day. Mrs. Arrido, I agree with you in many things. It's the greatest challenge we've ever had to provide to long-time unemployed. And he's one of the serious, salty problems that his economic crisis has caused, we know. That this state may lead to poverty and social neglect. We're not happy with dates either. "And I do not want to be filled with joy ourselves when we appear. The effect of glossization and progress technology has led to a very rapid change of manner and capacity for certain jobs. This leads us to believe that success is in the practice of persons, especially among those who have most time left out of the trade, or in the process of formation for which these capacities are acquired. It is evident that long-time unemployment produces very negative effects among those who suffer. One of the negatives is the difficulty in finding the opportunity to work, because time is lost. Even when new jobs are created, it's very salt that long-time unemployed people get into a decent way of working. But it's not just our challenge. On 17 September this year, the European Commission proposed guidelines to the Member States of the Commission, with the aim of helping to define the appropriate measures for the long-term unemployed to get them back into employment. It is not, therefore, a problem that only affects us, although the evil of many is not the consolation of fools, much less. The European Commission's recommendation is aimed at offering these people a concrete, personalised plan to determine their needs, their potential, and to offer them what the Commission calls a labour integration agreement. Well, that recommendation with all of our best practice limitations that the Commission recommends, has been doing Lanbide for some time, not with the success we wanted. More than 50% of the total number of persons registered in Lanbide have been summoned to modify, update their personal, training and work data and to hold interviews with them in order to assess their employability. I already know that this is not enough, we do nothing about orienting and forming, if what we don't get is what they want, a job and a quality job. In 2014 and during these months of 2015 we have launched specialized guidance services for groups with special difficulties of insertion, among which they certainly are. We can hire, as you said, Mrs Arrondo, but basically the hiring is out of the public domain. In view of the fact that in this situation there are all those who have the longest time in unemployment, over this period Lanbide has focused on a job as individualised as possible, in order to know in detail its qualification as the needs it has for its improvement. Among them are certainly the groups of men and women who have not been unemployed for two years, but even those who have worked for less than 12 months in the last 18 months. Knowing your qualification, your experience, is essential to optimize, increase your skills and be able to provide training resources tailored to your need. We can orient and we can form and we must also mediate. And I already said it in the committee, and you were there, that we are not satisfied with the brokering data. In Lanbide we are working seriously to make companies really our benchmark, so that levels of intermediation increase and get closer to reasonable levels. We haven't made it yet. Long-term unemployed people receive personalized treatments. We try to identify all the resources and all the needs they have to initiate what is called a personal employment agreement. The plan in Lanbide includes tutoring, job search aids, supplementary training, as well as, of course, if needed, income guarantee income application aids. At the same time, thanks also to the partnership agreement signed between Lanbide and more than 150 municipalities in active inclusion agreements, people, many of them, are derived from municipal social services to do what can be done in perfect coordination between different areas of the Administration in the guidance and follow-up of these people. It is only the beginning of policies that allow us to know the integral approach of people, in order to ensure continuity and coherence of the service offered. I say that it is only the beginning, because really what we, what you, Mrs Arrondo, ask of us, and we ask ourselves, is neither orientation nor training, but employment. So we're offering a professionally professional service, timed in with formations, sharing with other systems, and supporting the protection system. The problem is true, it's complex and the answer can't be the only one. We know the medium, the interaction, we're not satisfied with our wishes. But, Mrs. Arrido, there are not many of the things you say in our hands, or at least there are more in the other hands, which depend on others. Plans, you criticized many and sometimes me, and I did it in front of you. Actually, we're not going anywhere with the plan. In fact, there are people behind the plan, and we have to do a lot more. There are people behind Numo and there are jobs behind people. And we know in the government that we don't always want to do that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u120	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u121	Mr. Toña, you agree with a lot of things we said, but what do we do? What are you gonna do? Continue the same? That's what you said. So far you've been trying, from your point of view, to do a lot of things, and it'll be going on that way. And we say it is not enough, and besides it is not enough. We must change direction if we really want an answer to long-term unemployed people in this case. Other measures can be taken and taken. And that's what we don't see and ask for. But I'll say more. To some of these men, to those who are destitute of work, we even made a suggestion to extend the entire protection system of the legislature. We proposed to support the incomes by rent, at least to protect this collective, and we refused. So this collective, a great part of it, is trying to reduce it to poverty and social retirement. And we don't share that attitude or what's done or left undone. I want the President himself to remember what he said in the discussion of general politics, because he was very significant to us, and at least I stayed with him. He said, on the one hand, that job was a priority, but then, after a few days ago, we had received the sum of what he had to say, and that when he had appointed the commitments to Christmas, it was the first of all that he had to be strict in managing and fulfilling the principles of stability. And it was the third point, the third of three, the job. This was clear to us: "Looking at the future," he would say, "make up my commitments." First of all, to do as all the Niolisans require: stability, debt, etc. And thirdly, thirdly, employment. And that was a sign for us, as I said. But then, even at the assembly in general politics, what Mr. Urcullu had said, and passed us through the discourse he said in the document, it became very clear to us: "Nuevo impulso para Euskadi. Nuestros ejes de actación. Un primer pillar, la innovación." Very long, very long, very long. "El mundane, nuestra a priorida, solido is what it says." Three lines, three lines. He doesn't say anything, I won't read it, there's no time, we all know it. Three lines. Is that the priority? We don't think so. And we believe that the importance of public policy should be placed on the table, and we at least want to insist. We don't need to repeat or apply the degrees of dependence in Madrid here. We don't need the prepara or the "Cativion" of the "Activación para el Empulo," 426 euros, the plans of the tariff and all that. Indeed, we must have whole public and balanced employment policies, which will withstand our wants here, our tissue, our unemployment. And for that, we also believe that we need self-existence. To change the course and give you a real answer. The data we are now acquainted with has been removed by other functions, in which some hundreds of people improve, I believe that it says that there are 300 persons or something more, but that the data is said to be uphill, but the data is down, months down, the number of people who are in unemployment is really very serious, the quality of the employment that is produced is not good, and we have a drama, with long worklessness. And we're asking you to, we've made a few proposals, we'll make sure that we're more specific, but we think it's meant to be taken seriously. Yesterday, about the situation of the young men, he was here talking about the business student. What remains of the order of resignation and of no effective moderation? Leave. And what remains of long-term labourers, chief physician?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u123	I've brought up the data you've been talking about a few minutes ago. As a matter of fact, it's a big deal. Three hundred and forty-seven people in unemployment, in Spain more than 26,000 in unemployment. And for the first time, what they always say, well, they're better off in Spain than we are, well, at least in the interanal, there's something we've won, but that's not what we're going to talk about. What do we do? We'll change everything we can, Mrs. Arrido. And I help this parliamentary, and I ask him to help me to direct the profession, to correct the work of the profession. And help with the union next door to you. We want to do things right and change them. Now, in fact, there's been an agreement in the profession, and it's been fun. And we have to work with Professional workers, to do many things that you've said and many things we're talking about. Because we all have the same purpose. We're working and we're going to continue working with the initiative that these people are going to put into the market. The engagement of this government is firm; And you heard me, you heard this government, always saying this, and worrying about the facts like this when they show up. We believe in a wide society and we can't accept a economic recovery that leaves people out of work for a long time. We can't. We shall have a long hand to hear your proposals, and the proposals of this parliament. But we haven't been waiting until the year of 2015 to accommodate the hiring. In fact, we've done something since we got into the government. We did what we could, what we thought, the best. We know it can be done better. In 2015, the calls for local aid developed and endowed with 20 million euros – well, it could have been 200, but it could have been 20, it could also have been 2 – have been established as priority collectives the contracts carried out both by companies and by the entities for those workers we are talking about, with greater vulnerability, among which highlight those who have been in a situation of unemployment for the longest time. I understand that we do not have to wait to act in this line. As I believe it can be seen in the initiatives, we do not only envisage special difficulties for the population to which you refer, Mrs Arrondo, but also for us and for us the concept of long-term unemployed or long-term unemployed is even stricter. We've put special programs between people over 35 years of age. There are a lot of long-time unemployed people who make it easy to work in enterprises and optimizing their experience. For instance, a program for hiring out-of-the-35s abroad, with more than $1 million euros. It will never be enough, but it will help them better, and this government will do as best it can with this collective work and the amount of money to help them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u124	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 18th point in the subject list: "The question is, that the parliamentary members of Carmélo Barrio Barroja Popula team were made to represent the bill of eoperivities to Eplegu and the head physician of Society." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u125	Thank you, President, and good morning again, Counselor, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. The preliminary draft law on cooperatives in Euskadi is currently under discussion, according to the Government's own information through its computer portals. I have seen it today in Irekia, I have just looked at it, it will not be, according to Irekia, until 31 December the conclusion of the debate. Between 31 January 2016 and 28 February 2016, the draft will be at the conclusion stage, and after 28 February 2016 the Governing Council will approve the corresponding draft to be sent to Parliament. This means that the law will not be passed. If it comes after February it is impossible to know the parliamentary procedures of such a complicated law, of such a complex law as this. The times do not allow the said law to be passed in this Legislature and therefore we ask the Minister of Employment and Social Policy to answer us, please, what is the reason for the reason for delaying in such a way one of the projects that, well, we heard Mr Aburto say at the time when he explained his plan of action, more important of the department that you now preside over, as is that of cooperatives in Euskadi. The reference, the most emblematic expression of the social economy in our country and, moreover, it is true that there is a need to revise, to reformulate, to make a number of questions in relation to the 1993 law, which was an exemplary law, but which now needs to be revised, redrafted, and, as you say, to compile, unify reasons for systematism, of necessity. That is, if this law comes from February 28, 2016, it is that the appearances, the process of amendments, the study of the bill, will be impossible and is an important law for you. We are talking about the legislative calendar of the Government, which is half, not to say quarter, and in that sense something needs to be done. We have some initiative on the table, but I expect some explanation from the Councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u126	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u127	Good morning, Mr. President of the legislature, Congressman, Chief. I am very pleased, Mr Barrio, to tell you that I am very much in a hurry so that this law can be passed before the end of the legislature. If the times do not give it will not be because we have not tried to do what was in our hands, and if it has not come out before it has been because the agents, especially the cooperative world, have asked us during all this time, time and time and time, because some doubts were that things would not be done as they wanted them to be done. On the other hand, you know that to make a bill, then, the procedures... I'll tell you what I don't know, and I don't want to repeat it here. But I also have to say that if we all try to have the speed you manifest does not, therefore, mean that we will run out of time. And in that sense, I think that the information work, communication that we can do among all to facilitate the task of processing this law, we can really make it possible throughout 2016 and, therefore, before the end of the legislature. That is the wish of this Government, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u128	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u129	Thank you. Thank you, counselor. But for that to happen we must act quickly and speedily, Mr. Counsellor. I say again, if the bill comes after February it will be almost impossible, that is, you have to speed up those deadlines because it is already an internal job that is missing. I know the draft and there is the draft, you can practically say that it is ready to be debated parliamentaryly. We are looking at the reforms, we are looking at the improvements, we are looking at the adaptations to European legislation, we are looking at the processes in which we have seen that the previous law of 1993 was stuck and that there has now been a period of reflection. The sector, we already know – the sector, I say the cooperatives, and above all the big ones, not the sector, the big cooperatives – we already know that they have their little difficulties, but why. If the good news is that it's going to regenerate, if it's going to be good for cooperatives, it's going to be good for everyone, for the big ones and for the small ones, because it's going to give them mechanisms of flexibility, mechanisms of rigour, mechanisms of transparency, that we've seen in some processes, of course, failed cooperatives or that haven't worked well... Well, that's where we're at. And that, you have already matured it, you have worked it, you have to bring it to Parliament. No, don't be so suspicious. We must be brave, Mr Toña, in relation to these issues, because these issues are going to help, they are going to help what we all want, to generate more employment, to make cooperatives more dynamic, more appropriate to European legislation. You say this in the guidelines of the amendment: recast, integrate, clarify, revise. General guidelines on company law, cooperative government, self-regulation, technical-legal adjustments and improvements... Do something, now!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u130	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u131	Mr. Barrio. The first meetings we had were precisely with this world, in which we were asked for more time. In spite of that, at least since I came in as a counselor, we have tried to speed up, we have given the starting order of the initial draft of the preliminary draft, the normative impact memory, the economic memory, the impact memory that addresses motivation, objectives and legal analysis of the content, the business impact, and the order of prior approval of the proposed standard and its text. We've already delivered it. We say – and I say it again – that there are delays because the sector has a certain fear precisely of its parliamentary procedure. I wish we could really be able in parliamentary procedure to pass this law! Because it actually improves the conditions, the doubts that the sector had. And I sincerely believe that what the sector wants is for the preliminary draft that we have sent to be reasonably respected by this Parliament so that it can enter into force. But I have to admit that there have been certain fears in the cooperative sector, mainly in relation to some of the articles, because they have some fear that in the parliamentary procedure it might not be as they understand that some articles might be left. I hope that the parliamentary groups will all be at the level of the responsibility we have in this regard, so that the cooperative world remains the Basque cooperative world, the world leader and reference point of know-how in the industrial world, in the financial world and in the world of services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u132	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interpologies, members of the Leire Pindo Bustamane EH Collected to the Chief of the United States of the United States, the tax-commissionary policy necessary to ensure the unseasonable welfare of the United States." Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u133	Good morning. Good morning, everyone. We've been hearing from here and from there that we're in a sanitation, that we're in an economic recovery. The President himself expressed this in the discussion of the general political system of the week that passed. And even if it's true that the data of the raw internal product and other macronomical data are improved, we can't help forgetting that they have a positive influence on these data of oil, their situation, and the state of the international economy, in the real economy, there has been no direct reflection. Not in the state of Araba, Buzkai, and Gipuzah. And there's the data: More than $150,000 out of the Building and Loan, from which, 70% of the long-term unemployed. Very few jobs have been created, and most of them are pretors. Forty-five thousand people are in danger of poverty. That's 20 percent of the population. In fact, the number of people risking poverty from 2010 has climbed into 77%. Between 2008 and 2014, average incomes of the richest 10% of the Basque population increased by 1.1%, while those of the least well-off 30% fell by 4% and those of the poorest 10% were further reduced by 13.4%. And in this state the tax collectors of the forum, which should be a sign of recovery, publishes alarming numbers. The collection of money between August 1,2 has grown, which is far from the predicted 6,17. And the biggest influence on this data has been carried out by the low-down funding of Biscay. As we all know, he's been 3% smaller than he's been in the past year. Vices, a country that has to be more than 50% of the planned collection, a country that has to increase its collection from 6% to 6%, has been reduced to 3% tax collecting. All this has happened when the whole form of tax-form has been established as a standard of Biscay. A tax reform full of holes and a perfectly diverted tax-form to the north. There's the data: Until August, while the collection of PFSZ grows 8%, the societage is 7%,8%, and the tax on the estate has gone down to 1,2 more. Indeed, the Gipurian Moor will quickly change the tribute of wealth and of great fortune, although the only historical land in 2015 has been the only one who has increased the collection of money in taxes on the estate. So in the Typian, EAJ and PSE had already maintained the tax, a kind of champion in PSE's Gipuzia, they're going to give a backward pace in a natural tax system. We really hope this isn't the path behind the words "temos que a pensarseran una revisión consensiada de nuestro system fiscal." Because, ladies and gentlemen, 20% of the Basque population with higher incomes has income 4.2 times higher than the 20% poorest. This figure in 2012 was 3,7 %. That is to say, the gap widens; it widens in the midst of the crisis, while to some the only thing that happens to them is to modify the tax on wealth and great fortunes, with the excuse – and I quote textual words – of "targeting projects and encouraging and helping entrepreneurs and making the territory attractive", according to the words of the deputy of Hacienda de Gipuzkoa. Excuse me, I said. And I said right, yeah. Because even if he says that he will take precedence over the technical criteria in fiscal policy – hollow phrase where there are them – his words are not based on data, and they mark a very concrete direction: to benefit those who do not want to contribute to the development of the country what really belongs to them. In short, Adegi's pressures have begun to bear fruit. And what will come to us. Hau ahal da benetan progressiboagoa, justuagoa izango zen zerga-system? Nola gives possible hau? Was this the fairer and more progressive tax system that some of us were promised? Well, let me doubt it. Social needs are getting larger and larger, and this tax system does not complete its redistributor function, and according to data, not even fills the goal of the collection. I should say more, this system of taxing does not succeed in the number expected, and what is worse for us is not sufficient payment of money to support the welfare of our society. You can't do that at all. Indeed, if we wish to be a strong state of well-being beyond the revenues, we must form a system of taxation to feed them, and if we see the state of our country today, this is not the way it is following. You can repeat one and a thousand times that there are no cuts on basic issues such as health, health or social policies, it is something that you have been doing throughout the legislature, but the reality is that the system that we currently have is far from being a full welfare state system, and this is a direct consequence of an erratic, unambitious and disorderly fiscal system. Distasteful in all respects, since the levels of fiscal pressure, both from Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, are located in the group of those of the Spanish State, the Baltic countries or the countries of the East, whose welfare systems are not characterized by being exemplary. And far away, on the other hand, from Nordic countries such as Denmark or Sweden. And sluggish, because instead of moving forward in taxation on capital, wealth or unproductive wealth, it continues to rely everything on a single charter, income from labor and consumption. In this situation, when the real problem is to get paid, and so when the budget is on the move, what does the government think? What measures will he take? Constraints? What, we're slowing down the payments? What about next year? Previsions up again, and after that? I've been paying the bills this year, but we can't forget that in 2014 the October Finance Council, Vices, Vices, and Vices, had said that the yearly investigations would complete, and that at last he'd collected less than 64 million dollars. The state, then, is not new, but the result of a mode of action. The result of a method of doing it and of a system. Why do I say it's the result of a system? Because we do not control all our taxes here, though it be an Economic Covenant, and here have Jurisdiction to certain Revenues. Look, if we take into account the weight of different taxes, Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Alava can decide about 95% of direct taxes and 5% of indirect taxes. In general, they have autonomy and decision-making capacity over 50% of what they collect. And this is a limit, and it is evident by a simple example: In 2012 the three main councils were opposed to the increase of the VAT, but owing to our lack of capacity our culture has to apply the VAT of 21%, although that is a sector against itself and culture. The sector is in trouble. So if we want to be a system based on social justice, if we want to be a system that answers to the reality of our society, we have to step forward in this area too. You have to dig deep in economic independence. Again, from our group, here in the parliament, we have declared, but when it is necessary to go always to action, some prefer to maintain a well-known state, to keep it in comfort. Now, for the last time, the government has put a social security transfer to us on the table, which is almost 40 years late, but our society must also have a full right to do the whole system which must be at the service of the Basque Society. The tax, and in general the economy, remains to be discussed in society. The social break in society is getting bigger and bigger. And so, well-being, equality...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mr. Gazagabary, you're the one with the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Look, the situation of our financial fabric, due to a remarkable and profound retrospect, is giving results in the last days. Look, the improvement we've had in the last quarter, the growth of %1, the annual growth of 2,7%. We've also had growth in the first month. We've got stability in all the sectors. We see we have a improvement. Industries, how much weight it has in our raw internal products, and because it is the important axis of our economy. Enhancement. What dynamism service sector. It is true that in the building sector there has still occurred a deceivation to get out of that retreat. We haven't got enough of this yet. That's true. That's true. But the sectors that have weight in our economy have that improvement. He's seen it in the Epleugue too. We're measured for the whole time of work and one for the other. Not a spoted data or temporary employment, but a job must be measured; quality, whole worktime and average in year. We see in economic matters what growth has been: 1,7 in the year of year, 0.7 in the quarter. It's true that our economy has great connections with the economic cycle. That's the way it is, but if we study the memoir for the competitive economy of Esscal, we can see from this that this connection is connected with the cycle, but we can see also that our companies have a better improvement from the financial point of view. They have entered a financial health-that is, the process of subsidy has diminished and has entered into a way of becoming more healthy. It is interesting to examine the memoir of the competitive economy of Esscal, which has appeared a month ago. That's the way you see it. Another thing in this context, we sell out the 67% of our economy and all these sales, service, product, product, and product, all the products we produce, and all the products that have been raised in 2014, even our sales have gone up. What does that show? The competitiveness, that it is accepted in a fertility, that we have less dependence on the economic market of Spain. I mean, this recession and recession, we've been supposed to win the market out there. And this is important, in order not to keep this connection directly; it is more in certain sectors, sometimes less. We need to see the investment as well. What's going on in our country? Invest. In 2014, foreign investment has increased. The third state of society is the autonomous society that has kept an external investment here, $1.407 million invested in it. Far from Madrid, Madrid is a great capital, and, well, we're far from there, but we're a third. I mean, we don't have that kind of foreign investment since 2007. And the year of 2007 was very special, and he has some explanations on that subject. Then we must consider that context. I mean, economic policy. Where's the government economy policy gone? We've had, on the one hand, that we want a very difficult economic model, bearable and redistributor. And this has led him to possess a policy in the employment world, with a plan for the law. It's also planned for industrialization, for all the time. Plan for action, created between institutions, new planning too. It's also a plan of national training. These are the axes of our economic policy and finally the plans for innovation, technology and research. That's them. And even with that he has a very important connection, how we have our comforted connection. In this profound retreat, on the one hand, politics are in force and influence, but the prosecution itself has two aspects, we must see the state of the expenditure and the entrance. And as far as we're concerned, we've also seen the rules, that demand to complete the budgets. It's a very important demand that we have healthy accounts to keep financial down, not having great deficits and going to make it better. And that also has the other point of view, that attitude in the entry of the prosecution. This view of the attorney's entry, as I have said, and you have mentioned it, a change has taken place a year ago. We see, here we are, with the results of which you have mentioned some punctual data, it is true; these are official data, and they are there, but the explanation is also given. What you've been saying is that a fall has occurred in the historic territory of Biscaia and has explained why it has happened. The official ID is there, and you know the key as well as I do. We'll see how the year ends. But when the change was made, the results are there, we see the tax that regulates the transmission of our trade, and on the other hand there is the tax of the physical revenue, which you have mentioned, the tax of the added value. Even after all the changes have been made, the results are here. Eight percent of the time you're talking about the collection. The weakness we've had in the societies, but the explanations are there, but the positive is also in the gym and the Araban. What it shows is that the tax policy between the four institutions we set or awakened had a purpose. On the one hand, to give you an equality of mind. To be more efficient from another, to be more forward. It takes his time. The delay has been profound, and then we must combine in the middle of the economic policy all the manufacturing policies we have mentioned, all those which have the art of planning, and the privilege of fulfilling its policy and its rules, and when we have seen the prosecution, it was made on the side of the revenue and changed the right tax. On the one hand, to give us a guarantee of our country police, in health, education, society, and other politics in the neighbourhood, even in the house. That's what we're supposed to combine. It is necessary to combine all the rules in a complex state of economy, the prosecution from the expense, and the prosecution from the entry. And there's the results. We come out of the recession. Not just that we're going to say too much about what you've done, but because they've done a lot of hard work, companies and people, and the poor, in our society. But, you know, it's just... That way: To encourage and reinforce the situation of our 100 economics. And that's what we see, if we see the reports of our Esscal economics, the report of competitiveness, it's obvious that the improvement of this competition, based on the fertility, and important steps have been taken in financial health. So we're doing all this together. That is to say, the policy of the taxation is introduced into a deep plan of the economic policy, which is on the side of the revenue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u136	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u137	Thank you. Mr. Chief physician, you know economic data and economic context, I have no doubt, and you explain it very well. But my appeal was clear: I'd introduce you to the policy of tax policy necessary to support a state of comfort without constraint. And you didn't tell me what kind of tax policy this government has in mind to respond to the state of well-being. The issue is that this government is responsible for the vast majority of policies that sustain – or should sustain – a good welfare state and it seems that, according to what you are telling me here, it does not care how it will feed those policies. Because he talks to me all the time about the gross domestic product, the sectors, that employment has gone to better, that business debt has fallen... If I didn't say no! He dicho, hay datos macrocogonos que son poitivos. There's a lot of money in it. Because you know the state of the nation as well as I do that the state of the economic state of the Economics, the oil, the euros, the situations in so many other economics, has accompanied it in a way.....arb................. And then, when we say that exports have gone up, yes, they've gone up, but we're trying to convert the price so much lower in the world now. And you say it in your records. "El valor de la exportion es un 3 % menor la caída de precios, porque elvolumen de productos vas envisados a los país en desarrollo..." "I don't know. You say it in your records. That's our current situation. So that's not the point. And again and again the memoir of competitiveness. Okay, I've read the competition report, too. And he has his things. But I came here to ask you about the pretty things that may be made to support the welfare state. And you didn't answer that. How is a true state of well-being supported? Not a state of well-being de postil, as we say, of smoking here, of smoking there, and of doing what is done, is true. You're telling me that "we're putting all the rules together and pulling them out of the back" and again we know that the prosecutor has two sides, but we have to complete the budget rules. Yeah. That's not the point. A few minutes ago, Belen has spoken about this subject. That's not the problem. The problem is, what is the priority? Society or deficit? There's the key. And you tell us it's defensive, then later, and then we'll do politics with what's there. It's not like that. The pattern to make must be defined and its feeding policies are subsequently defined instead of vice versa. That's what you have to do. Otherwise we are always present: raccoons, laces, and laces. And that's what we've been doing. We've been having crabs for years. "We can't do any more, we can't afford the budget, we're sorry, we could do it, we'd like to have more money to help people, but they can't get... "I don't know. That's not a way of making economic policies. That's not it. After you define it, do it. And I was just asking you what kind of tax-politics do you see that's good to enjoy, to feed a real state of well-being? And what we've got nowadays doesn't look like it. It doesn't look like it. And there's the data! It's not my data. Yes, the PFZ came up. I told you. Pressing workers again. But the tax upon the capital is not present; the tax upon the societates decreases the collection. And it's not the first year, it's in a positive tax on social society this year, but it's been a terrible descent last year. And the twinge explained... Well, I'm not in the Biscacia Junts and I won't go in, but you know as well as I do that there were holes in these explanations, there were holes in it. To say that it is not related to the state of the VAT, the other historical regions have the same. In other percentages, of course, the most peopled country is Biscaia, and consequently it has it in its own level. And to make the return of the revenues on the sonata of 2013 in 2015 is to do with the will of the Persistent Vices. That's not a joke. He decided to do it in 2015 and not in 2014, because in 2014 he was in trouble to complete his goal. We all know that. He collected 64 million less...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mr. Gashhousevary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u139	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Pindo, I've told you what kind of ways the economy should be attached to. I told you what politics we're making in general, whether or not we're doing science or politics. And also on the prosecutor's side. He's got a D.A. and you didn't mention it. That's the defect in your speech. You didn't mention anything. You didn't mention it. You mentioned the prosecution in some parts, but the prosecutor has two aspects, the prosecution hasn't even said a penny on the side of the expenditure, and it's important, because it understands the prosecution. And that's it. There it is. You know what you said, but you know better. It's important from the expense that we know the rules we have to follow. You didn't say anything about it. That's important. How could we reconcile the prosecutority for expenses and tickets? I told you, the prosecutor reform was designed for what purpose: the diversity of spirit on the one hand, on the other hand efficiency, in order to give progress. It is true, but sometimes the direct tie is not on account of the income of tax policy with the development of a hundred economics. That's right. Sometimes she doesn't. But even for that, he needs his time. For instance, the measures which had been put into the policy of the taxation, in order to make the situation of our companies more sound, were made use of, e.g., when the measures of the compound had been taken to force. Are you on the side of that politics or are you against it? Our economic tissue 95 are small and medium companies. One. Second, that's where we put our small and middle companies in order to improve their training and further reforming investments. That's it. That'll take its time to influence it. That's what Euskal Economics reports. That we're more healthy in the last two years from the financial point of view. And then, for equivalents, nibulation capital, to improve our small and middle companies, the measures of the prosecution. That was important. On the other hand, you know the changes in physical people, the results are there, the positive ones, and you mentioned the negative. But if we look in general, the case of Biscaia, this is what you have given negative, but in Aran, and in Gipuz, they have been optimistic, they have been positive. That's what you need to see. And that has its responsibility, too, the measures we've placed in the state of politics. A policy against the prosecutor, for instance. We've made two plans together. You didn't say anything about it about the prosecutor. We've made a complete report. And one important thing, the aldudia forts, who in 2014 had joined them, and then with the government of Navarre for the information and intercommunication of the prosecution. That's an important measure, 2014. In 2015, information to interact with the three pillows with fun, one for the expense, because our weight is important, the amount of information we have on the state of taxing, the general policies on aid, and the almonds for the entrance. Well, we did that too. These are important measures of the public prosecutor. And they're showing up, and you know it as well as I do, because we sent all the information to the Chamber. And then what do you see? We see that all economic policies, including the prosecution, both areas, tickets, and expenses, are good. If you measure the amount of difference in our entries, and it is used to measure it, C Gina is used to see the indicators in certain societies, we are in small numbers. If you measure our expenditure, and, as you say, in the state of well-being, in health, at 1.560 euros with the inhabitants, in education with the inhabitants, and in health. And what we enjoy is the policy against the neglect of society, the most expense we have. Well, that's what we do. That's how I handled it from the expense and the lobby, the economic policy I've told you on the prosecutor's side. But you have to have the whole thing. Because the public prosecutor brings in an important and both of them must be closely united to ensure their welfare. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u140	Thank you, Mr. Saltamary. The twentieth point in the theme list: "Interpelation, the Mist of the Gorka Maniroy, a member of the President of the House ofUPyD members of the Board of Education, Policy, and Cultural Division, concerning the Deliberations of the Public Television Law." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u141	Yes, thank you, President. This humble public servant addressed a parliamentary question to the director general of EITB about the reasons why the Basque public television channel had stopped producing and broadcasting the periodic debate that was held during the last parliamentary term with the spokesmen of the political formations represented in this House. In a reply received on 5 May, the Director General of the entity denies that the discussions have been discontinued, but the information she herself provides contradicts that response. Only such a debate took place on 19 December 2012, that is, when the structure of the entity that had just held the autonomous elections had not yet changed. Since then, there has been no single debate among parliamentary spokespersons on public television. The other data it provides relate to the presence of parliamentary representatives in two specific programmes, which do not comply with the format of debate of spokespersons as developed in the previous legislature. It is therefore clear that the current EITB Directorate has deleted from public television programming the debate between the spokespersons, in an attempt to curtail the debate. It is clear that you are not interested in this format of direct presence and open debate among the highest representatives of the political forces represented in this Parliament. She was therefore asked to know the reasons why it had been decided to delete the debates between the parliamentary spokespersons in ETB. By the way, it is curious that those who have been denouncing the debates have been suppressed for months, when one is scheduled, are not invited, which is what we were able to see about three weeks ago. We have been calling for debates between parliamentary spokespersons for three years; finally, public television decides to convene and develop a debate between different political forces, and it turns out that UPyD is left out. It is clear that this Government has never liked the debate and therefore ordered ETB to abolish those dialogue tables in which all parliamentary political parties participated. It is clear, in our view, that the Basque Nationalist Party is panicking about being alone and being cornered by the rest of the opposition. By the way, a direct question: Did the PNV direct order EITB to suspend these discussions? Did you give direct order? They tell me they do, but surely you know more than I do. Did the PNV order to suspend debates between parliamentary spokespersons on public television? As I am told, yes, although you will obviously have to say no. This is one more of the actions to which the current Directorate of EITB has accustomed us, a line of action guided by sectarianism and the lack of political plurality, by favouritism towards the government and the party that supports it, that is, the Basque Nationalist Party, by being voice and speaker of the nationalists, by promoting and encouraging the majority presence of opinionators and Tertullians of a single ideological tendency, by the exclusion and marginalization of non-nationalist options. Information manipulation and sectarianism are the basic rules for the functioning of the public body since Mrs Iturbe was appointed Director General of EITB. And with this interpellation we are again abounding in the same idea: by suppressing the debates of the parliamentary spokesmen in ETB, the government and the Basque Nationalist Party are consciously and deliberately protected. It is not an action based on professional criteria, but on the contrary: it is a political decision that is made to protect the Basque Nationalist Party. The basic principles of professionalism, independence, veracity, quality and impartiality that EITB should guide are being trampled on every day of the year. This government and Mrs Iturbe have been responsible for placing EITB at the bottom of the ladder in terms of credibility, reliability or veracity. And, of course, I am referring to the political leadership of EITB and the Basque Government. UPyD in its day presented a proposal to modify the system of choice of the director of EITB, and we made a proposal so that the BBC model could also be followed here. It was discussed in October 2013; it was a proposal rejected by all groups in this Parliament. Something similar to what happened when we presented a proposal and an initiative to launch a paper that would push for changes in the Basque Court of Public Accounts Act. He voted against it. He refused. A year later, the possibility of amending the law was opened up. In any case, we will continue to insist, but what is clear is that it is not in today's interest for public television to be democratised and for it to be guided by criteria of independence, veracity, neutrality, objectivity and impartiality. It does not interest the Basque Nationalist Party, and since EITB is at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party, EITB takes the decision to suppress these debates among parliamentary spokesmen on television. Finally, this chapter on the abolition of debates in ETB is but one of a trajectory begun this legislature, which can only be described as regrettable and sectarian. Madam Counsellor, at last, you are asked to know the reasons why it was decided to delete in ETB the debates between the parliamentary spokesmen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u142	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u143	Head of the Parliament, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good days. Mr. Maneiro, I'm going to refer to your question to the objective data. The fact is, dear Iturb, who is the principal director of the EIB, in that reply to the legislature you are speaking of, declared that EIB has made rounds of tables with several voters from the legislature. It's another thing that the format used is that you don't like it, or that you don't like the representatives of the political parties that have been selected at each time. I shall, however, return to the subject in question, and relate the tables which have been made with several representatives of the legislature: On the 19th of December 2013, there was a circle of tables with the spokesmen of the parliament, and according to your comments, the round table was made in the format you like. But that was not the only participation of the members of the legislature. Later on, on March 1st, 2014, and April 23, the spokesmen of this Chamber had a chance to participate in the program called De Boca's Boca. This discussion about political and social subjects was guided by the Forest People Mateos. I think you'll remember. I'm talking specifically about the April 23rd program. In this program, the five political powers which represented the Basque legislature participated: Joseba Egibar, Laura Mincera, Jose Antonio Pastor, Borja Sémper and you as president ofUPyD. There were a lot of things discussed around the table, and you, the congressmen, had the opportunity to discuss the management of the furniture for the past 100 days, to discuss the budgets, or discuss the need or need to discuss the contracts in the legislature. But that wasn't the only program EIB had made for the legislature in this legislation. One more example, pure one, is a program of El Diemla. At this table the subject of today was examined, and many of the agents occupied it: the socialists, those of the economy, those of the business world, or those of education, or political agents. For instance, on September 22nd, 2014, El Dilema was held in the Basque Act, or the El Diem, or the El El, with the eloquence of all their groups, to talk about the main lines of the new political year. You were there, too. And when you get closer in time, you need to know that EIB just opened up a new program recently. The object of this program, directed by the Azarion Bolinag, is to create a discussion about the affairs of the social and political life of today. The idea is precisely to provoke the debate, which can confront different points of view, which is called for reflection on topics of maximum topicality and interest. An information store with debates, interviews and reports about what the present day is demanding. A programme in which the parliamentary representatives, but not exclusively, as you seem to expect, are accommodated, but alternated with other types of agents, which are also important in our information today. Without going further, on September 16, the beginning of this political course was the central theme of the Minute to Minute debate at its premiere. In the debate, Andoni Ortuzar, Hasier Arraiz, Idoia Mendia, Arantza Quiroga and Roberto Uriarte took part, who were face-to-face to discuss and reflect on the most topical political issues. An initiative that leaves in question the accusations you have made about EITB and your alleged attempt to reject political debate on TV channels. In any case, the information offer concerning the Basque Parliament does not end there, as it is complemented by the information generated on a continuous basis by this House. You know perfectly well that parliamentary activity, both of the plenary and of the committees, with an interest in information – a criterion that belongs to the editors and journalists – is present in the daily information offer, both on television and on the radio and on the Internet. In addition, fortnightly ETB-2 connects live with the control sessions to the Government, offering citizens the opportunity to follow closely the political control that the opposition carries out to the Executive in the various matters. We can't forget, too, a program called Parlamento de las Ondas that offers from Eudioka every Saturday morning after 9 a.m. In that program, many of the members of the legislature here today have contributed. You're the other ones. We must add to all this a number of conversations made in news and opinion and discussion programs. I will give another example: You participated in the Basque program on September 16th, the day of ETV-1. It is plain, then, that EIB, in its programming, wagers for the legislature, the parliaments, and the politics of the legislature; the continuation of the law, and the wager for the introduction of the spokes of the parliamentary teams in our media. EITB's offer is distinguished from the rest of the media by its public service character in a highly competitive media context. In this way, their offer is characterized by being majority, generalist, sustainable and responsible. Also, the grids of contents are made considering both the interest of the majority public and niche, and balancing creativity with the framework of values that foster social cohesion. Mr. Maniro, in order to achieve the balance of the offer, is often to form a complex puzzle, and I think EIB builds that puzzle perfectly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u145	Yes, thank you, President. Let us see, Commissioner, has the programme which was previously broadcast in the last parliamentary term been suspended in relation to the possibility of a debate in ETB between parliamentary spokesmen? Has he been suspended or not suspended? He's suspended. Is it holding or not holding? It's not holding. There is therefore a decision by the new Directorate of EITB not to have such debates, as they had previously been, among the parliamentary spokesmen. That's what I'm talking about. Televised debates between parliamentary and Spanish spokespersons. If other kinds of debates are organized to me, I think it's great; even if I'm not invited. The more debate the better. If it's in Basque, I think it's perfect. I don't have a problem. I am talking about a specific format: parliamentary and Spanish speakers. It was done before and now it's not done. And it is said that as a result the Basque Nationalist Party was disturbed by this format, because its loneliness was evident, and it ordered the EITB leadership to suspend that format. I don't know if you've been ordered to suspend that format, what I'm saying is that it doesn't exist anymore, and I thank you and EITB's general management for interviewing me as many times as they want in Basque. I want you to interview me in Spanish, too. It seems to me very good that there is another type of debate, and that other political groups, other extra-parliamentary political parties, are involved. I don't have a problem, I think it's great. What I demand is a specific format that existed before and now does not exist. By the way, you quote as a debate, a debate that took place on 19 December 2012, i.e. with the previous leadership. He even quoted a debate on 1 March 2012, that is to say on the last parliamentary term. If we look at what has happened in this legislature, it is perfectly clear that this format has been suspended. Why? Because it bothers the Basque Nationalist Party, because it does not like to see it as a minority, because it does not like the rest of the political parties to criticize it. And it seems very good to me that EITB should report on everything that is happening in this Parliament, it seems perfect to me, is its obligation in fact I believe. It seems to me very good that there is another type of debate, with other political formations. It seems to me very good that there are programmes in Spanish and Basque, where certain public representatives participate. It's great, perfect. But what I am calling for is the previous format: a televised debate in Spanish between the different parliamentary spokesmen. After claiming for two and a half years this format, you organize a debate and leave UPyD out as political revenge. By the way, the debate after which there was a non-discussion table between three perfectly interchangeable journalists, who said virtually the same thing, and who made great efforts not to repeat the same arguments. That is not political plurality. And I also think it is very good that there are debates every week on the radio. Great. There I am, once a month, perfect, great. But I'm not talking about the radio either, I'm talking about the format that I'm pointing out to you, a format that used to exist and that doesn't exist now. And of course we will move that the new direction take note of what this Parliament, when it comes and if there is agreement, can demand. More plurality is what is needed. More political debate. If the Basque Nationalist Party is in a minority, it is its problem, which is defended as it can, but which does not order the leadership to suspend certain debates in certain formats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u146	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u147	Mr Maneiro, the management makes the decisions with total autonomy, no one has called for a change. On the other hand, do you call plurality to reproduce the debates that take place in this house? Why should EITB reproduce the format used in the previous legislature? Would there really be any justification for a greater offer in relation to Parliament and parliamentarians, when there are many other issues, programmes, etc. that the ETB hearing is asking for? Even more so when we have other specific channels that offer such monitoring. Because is it not enough with the follow-up from Irekia, that it broadcasts live all the parliamentary debates that take place in the ordinary plenary and in most of the committees? Irekia is a tool of the Basque Government, a channel of communication open to all citizens, accessible and available to all those who want to carry out closer monitoring of the Government's activity, as well as parliamentary activity. As I have already observed on the first round, EITB has a proper offer for the drawing-rooms which are made with the political representatives of the legislature. Another thing is not to satisfy this offer is your taste and interest. We know it's hard to design a programming for all people. Even more, in a plural society like ours. Anyway, I'm surprised that you've asked me about EIB's programming, because by this time you ought to know that I don't belong to me, the head physician of this government's education, politics, and culture, to determine EIB's programming. Chief EIB Manager has jurisdiction, as I said before, in programming. In like manner, the Administration Council of this institution is intended to accept the public organization's activity plan after the director has made his proposal. In this plan, the principles of programming and the main lines are collected, as well as the rest. Pursuant to the provisions of 23 July this year, the Director-General submitted the general programming guidelines to the Governing Council. They were welcomed with the positive vote of all members of the council, including representatives of the political parties represented in this House. Subsequently, on 2 September, the director general presented to the council the grills of the 2015-2016 season and I know that there was no question about the matter that you are so concerned about. The Board of Directors knows perfectly well, as you do, that ETB currently has two spaces for interviews, discussions and debate: Azpimarra in ETB-1 and Minute to Minute in ETB-2, both of which are in charge of their respective professional teams. Spaces, in my view, perfectly valid to encourage debate on topical issues, both between parliamentarians and between representatives of social groups or of various kinds. In short, Mr Maneiro, I believe that the coverage of information and the provision of debates on the political and parliamentary sphere are currently perfectly covered in EITB. Unless your main problem is that you consider that you generally have a low presence in the EITB media. You are free to demand a greater presence and leadership from the media, but you must know that in these issues it is important to know the representativeness and political relevance that citizenship itself confers. To conclude, I would like to remark a highly important party, particularly important for a public media of an advanced democracy: I mean the wide coverage of public media during the election campaign. EIB observes this in a strict manner, by the law of election, and so on, even in the bells of the following elections. He takes care of the time given to political parties in the news of EIB, and of the interviews of political leaders, and informs him at the moment of this parliamentary law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. We shall next examine the twenty-second point, and then the twenty-first. The twenty-second point on the subject list: "I'm asking you, Maria Isabel Célaá Déguez, a member of the Basque Socialists, a member of the Board of Education, Language Politics, and Cultural Company, a colleague of Euskelebs." Mrs. Celaa is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u149	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. I'll ask the question from my seat, with your permission. Mrs Uriarte, we want you to convene the fellowships. You're definitely gonna call them this year?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u151	President andrea. Mrs. Celaa, I announced a project pilot around the colaboration club a few months ago. From this point of view, what the precise end of this project must be, what conditions it ought to fulfil, we have reflected on the various aspects of which it is to be explained. We have seen the first conclusion of this reflection very clearly. If we want to design this program well and plan it, we can't do it on our own, with our back to university and science-makers. So we've seen the need for a joint process where colleges and Investigators will be involved. The second conclusion we have reached is the need to set the objective of this programme well and in an orderly manner. It is not a question, as you indicate in your question, of offering university students an opportunity to connect with the world of work; for this there are a number of programmes, scholarships and aid aimed at bringing the student closer to the world of work, which complement their training and which can also be reflected in the European supplement to the title. For example, there are external extracurricular practices both outside and at the university itself, including research groups or programs such as Lehen Aukera. It is about training in research, encouraging the research vocation and retaining talent in excellent research groups in Euskadi. That's the goal. And the third effect is the need for a good continuation and evaluation of the program. These are the aspects which we are investigating at this moment by the hand of University and Investigatorus, in order to find the efficiency of this program and to excite the taste for our students' investigations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u153	Mrs. Uriarte, you're going to pass into history as that counselor who had a very bad encounter with the Basque scholarships. We are the only autonomous community that has competence in scholarships, and you have removed the grants of languages, of languages for university students, the scholarships of excellence, and now the fellowships of collaboration. Madam, when you are thinking of one resource, you do not remove the other until that new resource is in operation. There was a resource that worked, and it was working wonderfully, wonderfully. The proof is that it's been working for many years, you could have made punctual touches, you could have done them, but it worked wonderfully. For years. And it allowed those students who were in the last course of the second cycle of their career to access, through that scholarship, what was a real activity in research, in research groups, or in teaching centers, which you did not mention. Now you tell me "I'm going to make a change, I'm going to make a change because I want to involve the university, I want to involve Ikerbasque and I want to do it, I want to do it effectively and specifically for research." But where's your resource? Where is he? Because we didn't find him. And I have to tell you that the applicants for the fellowships are real people, some of them are here today. A case of a Basque student who goes to a Spanish university and wants to access a fellowship, with good grades, with chances of getting it, and does not find it. He can't find her, he can't find her in his Basque administration. But you do know from other colleagues that studying outside of Euskadi they have the possibility to go to the fellowships of collaboration of the rest of the Spanish educational system, which has a reservation for those students who are studying at the Basque university. This is clearly an inequality. If you want to do all the research you want, if you want to do you want to make all the contributions you want, and set the alternatives you want, do it, play games on the wire, but bring them when you have it, have already truly the full corpus, the creature formed and really, then you can say "I bring something better and I can replace the resource". Otherwise, ma'am, you are creating a very clear discrimination between Basque pupils, between Basque pupils and pupils from the rest of the system. And you're not exercising a specific competition that the Basque Country has, like scholarships. Madam, you have to apply with the scholarships, because precisely the scholarships are those that repair the inequalities of origin of the students. And in that you are not being applied anything. And let's not forget it. We're not giving this up. We will continue to demand the fellowships in this Parliament. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u155	That's andrea. As for the college scholarships, this department has had a very precise and ingenious attitude from the very beginning of the law, the attitude that matches the stupid goal of the Basque Person. Our principal ground and axis is to refer our labour to general scholarships, to the assistance of the students who are desirous of doing other high-level studies, the privilege. At the year 2014-2015 there have been a student of 11,211 for the benefit of these subsidies over 35 million euros. I think the effort of this government in this area is obvious. And if we say it on percentage, we've raised it from the start at the rate of 12% and 10% on port. So I think we have some important work to do. Eta bestalde, kolaborazi-bekei buruz. As I have been telling you in my previous speech, this government has been working on the launch of a pilot program: Ikas-iker. A program that can spark the curiosity and passion of our students for research. That's what we're doing, Mrs. Celaa. This very week, exactly Wednesday, we presented our proposal at the first meeting called by the Basque University Council. That was a good reception. These are the axes of our new program: The next day, it'll be a three-year-old board that's made up of the university and Investigators. We're going to invest the entire university system, including the BRCs. And finally, we're gonna go through it and make a deep evaluation. Setting a new program is useless, if we don't measure efficiency. That's why we're following up, and we're doing the evacuation. For the sake of science and research, we are working in order to promote the passion for the students' investigation. In short, our aim is to promote our investigation to excellence, to keep our investigators in ours, and to attract the great students to study.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "Interpology, the members of the Basque Socialists of the Socialists, made to the head of the Board of Education, Language, and Cultural, to resist the condition of the new bids of the pay-off channels." Mr. Unzalu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the department, fellow members of the legislature, good noon to all. Go ahead with the position of the Basque Socialists in relation to EITB: we defend a quality public television radio, reflecting the plurality of this society, which meets our socio-linguistic reality, which bets on collaboration with the Basque audiovisual industry, and which generates products that can be consumed in all new formats and by the largest number of agents. And I would like to remind you that we have been insistently bringing this reflection to this rostrum, even if anyone understands it as an aggression or an aggravation. It is not our intention to aggravate anyone; it is not criticism by criticism. Our aim is a reflection that we have proposed to share with this House. We believe that there are more than enough reasons to do so. We are faced with a legitimate offensive by private companies to attract audiences through payment channels, a campaign that is already affecting the offer of our public television, because, for example, one of the proposals that attracts the Basques is football and basketball delays, and their rights have been acquired by these private companies at unattainable prices by the public. So we have to face a low-hearing position, but we cannot accept this situation with resignation. Those responsible for the media know where the markets and tastes of the audience are moving, they must know, and we have long had clear indicators of where the tastes of the citizens are going. We know that new open channels by TDT were attracting more and more audiences. Today in Euskadi they are behind no more than almost 40% of the total audience. Large private companies reacted with a battery of business decisions. The first, of great silence, the concentration of channels. From there they defined their strategies, some with more popular offers, others with more elaborate audiovisual products, both diversifying their audience into other channels of the same group adapted to age or ideological orientation. But ETB has not reacted. We see with great concern that much of its exhibits to go back to audiences are short-handed of successful formats on other televisions and that they have some success among the Basques, but without an integral bet of their own. There are exceptions, right, and we are fully aware of the difficulties of the market, especially when, as we share with the leadership, we need to strengthen the Basque proposal. But in general, he hasn't reacted. I repeat, the management designs a strategic plan that has been left in the absence of a year of mandate in a mere declaration of intentions to cover the legislature, but that renounces thinking about the future. And we believe that assuming this reality is the first step in finding solutions. The proposals for a successful future will come from the analysis of reality and challenges. Because there were tails that we already knew when the management presented their plan. We already knew that most of us were hooked up to digital communication, that we all worked with a computer to follow digital media, to watch television à la carte. So much so that EITB did adapt in its day and that is why it has its proposal on the Internet. But the generalization of smartphones was added, which further distance the citizens from the sofa and from the remote control. And this reality is massive in an entire generation, that of young people under the age of 30. Knowing all this, knowing the boom of TDT's open channels, knowing that new payment companies would arrive, what was the new EITB management doing? Keep going as usual. With the practice of testing error in each new program, with some exception. And we can't go on as usual. For our part, the Socialists, we have made a reflection and opened it up for debate. The defense to the extreme of what is, has wanted to contaminate our intention. But we must not wait for reality to overcome us. It is one of our challenges: modernising the public service of radio-television. And when everything points to tidal, not only of audience but of advertising revenues, we must ask ourselves about revenues. Not for any further government subsidy to cover the holes, but through the generation of products that we can export outside our four television channels. Socialists do not manage EITB; we have no connection with their leadership; we believe that their management is being mismanaged in all areas, but we are not here only to criticize, we want to contribute, because we defend public service. From that will, we want to ask the Counsellor, and we have to do so in this format, the inquiry or the oral question in full, because it is the only way to meet you face-to-face, Madam Counsellor. The rest, written questions, are answers from the address we already know. And even if you try to repeat it, we require your opinion. Counsellor, you have important responsibilities with regard to EITB, your department has to ensure first of all that the public body fulfils the objectives assigned to it by law. Given the obvious impact these new companies are already having on the activity of EITB, given the evidence that the Basque public, like that of other parties, is changing their preferences and forms of consumption, I ask you, I ask you: what measures will the Basque Government take together with the management of EITB, to deal with the situation created by the new offer of payment channels? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u158	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u159	President andrea. Mr. Unzalu, to begin with, I must admit I'm glad you finally agreed that EIB must work in a very difficult and complex situation. You don't usually miss a chance to criticize communication group management and audience levels. It is, therefore, gratitude, at least, to reflect on the difficulty of the situation, and to consider it; The duopolis at the public market in Spain, the economic crisis that has been most fortunate in all sectors, the technology transformation caused by the appearance of the digital environment, and so on. Master EIB Manager has to deal with these conditions in the course of his daily practice. Now it's not the time to find out the guiltys of the market and the EIB, but I'm going to tell you that the state legislation hasn't helped any more than EITB, or the other autonomies on public headlines, but the very opposite. And in that respect, you too, Social Party, have your responsibility. It should be remembered that in the first few years of the previous decade, the television market consisted of seven channels: ETB-1, ETB-2, TVE-1, La 2, Telecinco, Antena 3 and Canal Plus, which was coded. In total, six open channels, of which two corresponded to EITB. That is to say, at that time we had 33% of the open-air television offer. However, in 2005 Zapatero decided to remove the television sector, for a question that was socially understood as political wisdom. In particular, he granted Mediapro an analog television licence, thanks to which La Sixth would be born, a channel perhaps closer to the Socialist Party than the Prisa Group. And if this were little, as against measure, Canal Plus was allowed to move to an open regime through the creation of Four. Of course, the rest of the televisions protested, as Zapatero's decision meant a greater fragmentation of the advertising cake. And I don't think there's any reason to say that all of this was negatively affecting EITB. In addition, time questioned the viability of these open channel expansion projects, as both channels were subsequently absorbed by the giants Atresmedia and Mediaset, significantly increasing the size of these two groups, which, surprisingly, are currently in the best business situation in their history. Unfortunately, the chain of decisions more or less interested in the Spanish television market did not end there either. The analog blackout of 2009 generalized the digitization of TDT channels and diffusion, which allowed to exceed 40 open channels. It is well known that the central Government once again favoured the large groups by granting them new channels without having called any competition for it. And in the meantime, autonomous public television had to be seen in order to live together in an environment in which there would be more and more competitors, who, at the same time, were becoming stronger and stronger. We have to add to all this the influence of the economic crisis, which has greatly diminished the perversion of publicity. EIB is the entrance to the telephonic change that is to be faced by the Movistar Plus Plus Platform. Two big businesses will be combined on this platform: on the one hand, he possesses content, and becomes an operator of telecommunication with an immense financial capacity. The phone, starting from a state of superiority, has put very complex challenges on all other operators by the wire. For we are obliged to negotiate with him, because he is the headline of the principal privileges to be paid. So, when everything seemed to be saying in the TV world, the Movisa blew the market completely. For instance, in the field of the sport. They sell skimmings of Spanish football, the Champian and the UEFA games, the formula 1, the Moto GP contest, and the shorts of sports. Even prestruders of sports are said to be offered on exclusive. It is, it may be supposed, all this has a direct influence on ETV, which must adapt itself to this crowded environment of difficulties. Considering this context, it is extremely important, among other things, about the rights of professional handballs, the agreements of three years in June with Bainet. So, one of ETB's bets is specialization. Euskadin's specialized brand. More and more. He will deal with the natural and closely allied districts as a special product which no other groups can offer. Thus he will pay special attention to the special applications of information, to the new spaces and formats addressed to children and young men, and to the content of social and sports. ETB will bet on specialization. He will become more and more specialized in the Euskadi brand. It will increasingly focus on the areas of its own and closer as a differentiated product that do not reach the rest of the groups. It will differ in the editorial approach of its own, of public service and of preservation from its own point of view. It will also devote special attention to the information spaces, which have a wide support of the Basque viewers. Specifically, Teleberri is an undisputed leader in Euskadi for the last 33 consecutive months. An additional effort will also be made to specialize in bands of children and youth, where an important niche of the market has been detected, enabling new formats in ETB-3. It will also offer social and sports content in Basque, using ETB-HD. ETB will also become a natural home of Basque cultural creation. We are living in Euskadi a glorious moment for Basque cinema. The best recognition of any effort made, not by the institutions anymore, but by directors, writers, actors, musicians, photographers, technicians and producers, has flourished at the hand of the film Loreak. A beautiful gift to a whole career, to a huge work carried out with passion, illusion and enormous professionalism. Today we are proud. Proud because it has managed to convert the triviality of everyday life into the greatness of a masterpiece. A work to which the Basque Government has offered all its support and collaboration, as it has done with many other productions. And now we can proudly say that all the effort has been worth it. Just as it is worth the effort we make to help writers, producers of dance works, writers, musical composers, etc. Our work, the work of the administrations, must be to offer our support so that all existing talent in this field can be successfully materialized. And the ETB group can also carry out an important dissemination of all this Basque cultural creation. After all, EIB will make an effort to supply a range of natural communications based on his personal self-balance between information, culture, education and leisure, which keeps the proper balance between its content and global content. It's our own site, defending our children and young people, our stories, our guests and people, and our culture.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u161	Yes, thank you. Counselor, I've been trying to answer the questions I've asked you for a long time; I've tried it in different ways, but I have to recognize your ability to sneeze the answer. Most of her speech has dedicated her to making a account of what has happened since decades ago, then to give four or five brushes that we already know, because the direction has manifested itself in that line that you have told us here. But I repeat to you once again, Counsellor, with all due respect, what we want to know is whether you, your department, the government, are concerned about the EITB march, about the challenges you face, and whether you are determined to deal with the situation, to give guidance to the EITB management and to work with it to solve the problems they are planning on the public television broadcasting sector. We know the opinion of the management, we respect it, we do not share it. It's bearing little fruit. Everything you've told us is really bearing little fruit in the last three years. Management does not count on our trust, it is evident, because we believe that it is not responding adequately to the task assigned to it by the Law of Creation of the entity. Madam Counsellor, as you well know, we are critical of EITB's law of action, we also recognize the successes it has, but we fundamentally believe that the editorial line does not meet criteria of impartiality, plurality, independence and general interest. Look, I'm going to give you an example that you mentioned. You mentioned here the Minute to Minute program. Well, two days ago in that program, there was clear evidence of how these types of programs are managed by EITB – by ETB, in this particular case. It is a program, the Minute to Minute, which was theoretically aimed at discussing the future of the left, after short interviews with different people, a table of four people – one given, four men, by the way – discussed the proposed topic. One of the guests, Enrique Villarreal, El Drugos, came to say that the guillotines had to be sharpened; another, Monedero, defended that for tactical reasons it was better not to speak clearly of the left; the parliamentarian Matute, who is part of a coalition and belongs to EHB – it is a heterogeneous coalition, which goes from the independence center to its extreme left group, passing through the left abertzale–; there was a contertulio, Pedro Ugarte, who precisely does not define himself as a left-wing person and who tried to put rigour in a demented debate. I'm setting it as an example. That programme lacked precisely the left represented by the oldest party in Euskadi, the current represented by the majority left of Europe and the world, such as social democracy. In this case, the general interest existed, but the lack of plurality and rigour disrupted the programme. And this is an example of how it works, I don't think this is the way to add hearings to EITB. But we Socialists too are seriously concerned about the management of the management team. There are many examples in the field of human resources management and budgetary management, we are now concerned about the competence of that leadership to address the challenge we are facing today. If you want to help improve the management of EITB and succeed in meeting the challenges raised, get involved in this, solve the programme contract, which has not been renewed for four years, and which, by the answers it gives to written questions, seems to be still dead. He urged the parliamentary group to support him in not putting sticks on the wheel to activate the special committee for reflection on the future of EITB, which we considered to be a suitable tool for addressing this issue. We, as you know, have our model proposal to face the future and we want to share it with everyone. We have proposals to talk about adapting to the new reality of the audiovisual world, we have ideas for making changes in the normative field, and even in the election and character of the Governing Council. Do not hide, please, face the debate seriously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u162	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u163	Mr. Unzalu, of course we're worried. I think it's pretty clear that the situation is really difficult for the public autonomists. As you know, EITTB must compete with a large private communication group, which is much smaller than his budget. It's important to admit that with a standard budget there are two general television stations and a single group of communications that don't even have a radio offer. In addition, unlike other media, the commitment to 6% as far as the movies are concerned, and it also offers an interesting Internet offer. Therefore, Mr Unzalu, I believe that EITB is already doing a great job in handling itself in this environment of adversity. ETB-1 had in 2012 the Champions League, had in 2015 comprehensive summaries of the league day and broadcasts of the second division of football. Also from the Endesa Basketball League. As you can imagine, the EITB Directorate would be pleased to be able to continue to count on this offer. However, the prices of sports bids have been deorbited to unattainable figures by ETB. In addition, Movistar Plus has shown its interest in grabbing all payment content exclusively. You could get the open game in the first division, powered by Spanish Television. But I assure you that it is not profitable, given the economic amounts requested, as well as being unable to broadcast matches of any team competing in the European leagues. The change of pattern in communication groups is mainly the result of the television model which has been received in several Spanish laws. Specially, the Public Law of the Eye-of- Hearers, concerning the reforming and Cable Operators of the Law of Radium Television the Spiroman. PSOE has been the chief promoter of these laws, and the conclusions I have just described are the direct consequences of those rules. It is evident that the Spanish legislation does a great deal of service to the private sector, and thus it is observed that in comparison with the other countries of reference to Europe, the great and the great, the united Kingdom with France and Germany, even with the small. By way of example, State legislation leaves operators with a broad decision-making capacity to distribute or not to distribute television channels. In this way, we find that Movistar Plus only distributes ETB-1 and ETB-2, but does not distribute either ETB-HD, ETB-3, or ETB-4. This translates into something so absurd that, for the first time, a greater supply of operators can go to the detriment of the diffusion of ETB chains. Similarly, the Digital Dividend Decree very negatively affected ETB by fixing non-antennaized frequencies for Basque public television, an aspect that was denounced in March 2015. A complicated situation that EITB is managing, despite all the complications, in an appropriate way. As for the measures to be taken to adjust to the current market you are requesting, EITB will focus its efforts on the development of the eight strategic lines set out in the Strategic Plan 2013-2016, which you know as a member of its Board of Directors. Among other aspects, he talks about the need to be leaders in information and current affairs so that the EITB Group is the main alternative reference, to strengthen the audience in Basquera, to achieve social prestige and use of Basquera, or to achieve the necessary budgetary balance in a context of less resources, among others. In addition, as a measure to counter the effects of the growing supply of thematic payment channels, there will be an increasing specialization in the Euskadi brand, in products of proximity, in the agenda itself, in children's programming and in information spaces. So apart from the strategic lines specified in the strategic plan, EITB is more and more specialised in the Euskade, in the near products, in the local agenda, in the child program and in the informal programs. Mr. Unzalu, I think he's making a special effort and a lot of work. Although the resources are smaller, our public communication service will guarantee them of a very dignified and high quality. That's the equation of good professional management. And he deserves protection and gratitude from this government. And in any case, as you have said, since a committee has been set up at the initiative of your parliamentary group, in order to analyse and answer all these questions, I will tell you that I sincerely hope that your reflection will serve to give the key to resolving the current situation, for the benefit of EITB and our society in general.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The thirty-third point on the subject list: "Ask me, Jule's Arzuaga Gumuzius EH Collectors of the Society to the Chief of Security, from the thread of the Operative in St. Mr. Arzuga, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u165	Thank you. And good noon to all. In July 2015, the edge of the border struck violently against the village in Donostea. He was able to execute the arrests promised by the national audience, and he wounded, wounded, and arrested many others. His practice was quite disproportional, and the result of this operation was wholly incomplete. As in other cases, the offender becomes a accuser, and the offender is accused. Thus the accuser, your division, brought him to the tribunals to impose a severe penalty for the attack of authority. The accused, Edurne Martinez, could prove that through a video his attitude had been entirely peaceful. It is true that he rejected the command of the Border, but that was only a peaceful disobedience, which the court accused, a slight mistake, which had only 300 euro fines. That's not what the department wanted. The department's wish was to impose on the bombing and that's what it was worth, even to lie. How do you like that, Mrs. Beltrán de Heedia?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u166	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. As an answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heedia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u167	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Arzuaga, you started by asking me why I deserved the "false testimony" of an ertzaina in the trial of two young people for possible crime of assaulting authority and public disorder on the wall of Boulevard de Donostia. Before reaching the stand with the question, he had changed his formulation, and then spoke of "possible false testimony." Possible false testimony. Now he accuses the department of "presumptive intentions." We're gradually changing. You know that... I'm going to answer the exact question you asked me, what is my opinion on the issue of a possible false testimony. You know that the Criminal Code, under the heading of offences against the Administration of Justice, clearly sets out the alleged false testimony that constitutes an offence. In this case, in the case we are talking about, as in any other case, if the judge had considered that there had been false testimony, he would have reflected it in the sentence and would have opened proceedings, or at least informed those responsible for Ertzaintza to take the appropriate measures or clear responsibilities. It didn't happen either. But you've already opened trial. You've opened trial and you've also condemned it. Mr. Arzuaga, the judge has not committed a complaint against anyone for false witness. As far as I know, no one else in this matter has ever committed such an accusation. If there had really been false witness, it would have been a question of the judges' decision. But, once again, this was not the question, Mr Arzuaga. Behind this, of a judgment that is not firm and as we have learned it is appealed by the Ministry of Public Prosecutions to the Provincial Court, its only objective once again, as I have told you, is to dress the robe of the parallel trial and to question, once again, the Ertzaintza and the Department of Security.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u168	Thank you, Mrs. Beltran de Heredia. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u169	Look, counselor. I am not the one questioning the Ertzaintza, but the false statements it makes before a trial. In the case we're looking at now, a specific ertzaina, and in the sentence it is said that your statements do not fit the images that can be seen in that video. And it also indicates the deployment of cases in which it is not fitting. I don't say false testimony in a criminal sense. If you want to say that this ertzaina what you were doing was a fraudulent accusation or, if you want it in political terms as well, as I say, what you did was pouring lies before a trial. I say again, it doesn't fit the images the defense was able to present. I don't know if Edurne Martinez's defense will file a false statement, but I say again, it's a purely political issue. Because in this video, moreover, which could be presented in court, what could be determined is that Edurne Martinez's attitude was absolutely peaceful, that he showed an attitude of passive disobedience and that he did not cause this ertzaine, or any other, any kind of damage. However, this ertzaine, I say again, lies about the origin of the wound allegedly to his knee. I ask: Why? Did he have a personal interest? Which one? Was it revenge? Will they tolerate this kind of behavior? Will they take any kind of disciplinary action against this ertzaine? But I also don't think it's a personal initiative of this ertzaina 10,514. I believe that it verifies a desire of the Department of Security to give a false image of what the herri-harresiak really supposes, to create a fiction about them, that whoever participates in them exerts violence, that it harms ertzainas, so that it also has a criminal translation this political fiction in the attack on the authority. A reality that is false, a true fiction that has now been revealed by this court, since the reality is that the herri-harresiak are not sources of violence, but are the object of it. I'm going to give you a piece of advice, counselor, and it's that I don't find any enemies in the herri-harresiak, that I look for the causes that drive, that I look for the reasons that drive these acts of protest, and that, perhaps, when I find them, then we can see how to overcome them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u170	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u171	Thank you. Mr. Arzuaga, advice I see I don't have for myself. Apply it to her. And I ratify everything I've told you before. And ERTZAINA is also a person with rights to the presumption of innocence. And therefore, I again insist on this case as in any other case, if the judge had considered that there had been false testimony, his obligation is to have acted and to have reflected it in the sentence, to have opened proceedings, to have warned the department, too. He hasn't done either. And I repeat again, your goal is only one, again focus on Ertzaintza and the department, judge. I'm very sorry, but it's that crimes are tried in court, you don't do them, you don't do parallel trials, and less so when the sentences are not yet final and are appealed. I do not understand this permanent harassment on your part towards the people who work in the Department of Security and to the people who work in the Ertzaintza, who also have the right of presumption of innocence, as do the people who intervened in the harassments to which you referred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u172	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The twenty-four theme in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of Laura Garrido Knörr of the Popula team made to the head physician of the Medical Department as to the lack of execution in sanitary investments." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u173	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, comrades. Mr Health Adviser, after eight months of budget implementation, and as we can see in the report on the budgetary situation in August 2015, we see that many items related to health infrastructure have not been implemented. And we want to know from the Group of the European People's Party what is the reason why not all those items related to very important health investments that were planned in our Autonomous Community have been implemented.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u174	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u175	Thank you, Mr. President, Congressman, good noon. Mrs Garrido, I would be grateful if you would give me that budget implementation report that you have read. He also did not understand the interpretation of it. I can assure you that the data you gave me has nothing to do with reality. The implementation of health investments in the Osakidetza area, is being developed within the normality and fulfilling the procedures that the regulatory framework, administrative contracting and other legal provisions have established. I will also remind you that in the field of public administration procurement, it is our will and obligation to be fully scrupulous in carrying out the established legal procedures. That said, I inform you that the obligations accounted for by the Department of Health on 30 September 2015 amount to 71% of the investment budget. Specifically, Mrs Garrido, EUR 33.7 million has been accounted for. It is not today, in the final straight of the exercise, it seems to you a negative balance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u176	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u177	But counselor, where are those 33 million other than in your imagination? If we have here the ratio of planned health investments, and it was planned to execute 37.5 million euros and only 652,000 euros have been executed! This is the official information that you send to the Basque Parliament. Are you telling me that this is not the official information that hangs on the website? No, no, this is the information, so don't miss the truth. Well, we see that this government lacks the truth, that they don't give good for the information they send, that this government makes too many statements of intent, too much self-propaganda, too much self-congratulation. But, look, Mr. Counsellor, the data, your data, you deny them and you see that reality that you systematically strive to deny. In a matter as important as health investments, you are nothing at all. Of EUR 37.5 million, executed, what I told you. Many important items, zero, but is that zero in what has to do with the spending disposition. I mean, they haven't even arranged the spending. So I don't know where those 33 million are coming from, you'll have dreamed of them tonight, I imagine preparing today's question. That is why I ask you, Mr Councilman, are you going to implement any of the items provided for in this sheet, which are the budgets that you approved, which are yours, those of your Government, which you approved with the support of the Socialist Party. And I say this to you, if you intend to implement any of these items, because we have known above that you will have to adjust these budgets, seeing that you have been wrong, and you have acknowledged that you have been wrong in the forecasts of economic growth. But you were already talking to us at the beginning of the legislature, and you will remember that I asked you a question in this full of control about what was going on with the investments, because you said that you were going to devote to the main and not the accessory. The accessory should be the investments that we have already seen that are not being implemented. And you said that in Osakidetza there have been more planned works than this Parliament is likely to authorize in the investment budgets in the Department of Health. Therefore, Mr Councilman, we want to know why this government is not implementing these items, we want transparency, to tell us the truth, and enough excuses. And don't make me the relationship that the lehendakari made in the past full of general policy, when above he made reference to the investments executed during the last year, that is to say he entered those of the year 2014. Do you want to tell us what you are going to do with the planned investments, once and for all, those investments which are at zero in the budget that you have approved and in the sheet that you have forwarded to us concerning budget implementation in August? What are you going to do these three months on top of seeing that you are going to have to make adjustments, because you yourselves have recognized that you are going to have to do them, seeing that you have, once again, wrong in the forecasts you had of growth this year?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u178	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u179	Mrs Garrido, I see that you not only misread the economic information, but also that you should not have followed closely the Lehendakari intervention. The lehendakari in the general policy plenary referred to the investments executed and launched by Osakidetza – no, no, gestures you make great, if we all know that. Listen to me. The lehendakari referred to investments implemented since the last general policy plenary. Well look, anyone who follows the Department of Health's activity minimally would have realized that the data offered, which you made offer to Mrs. Quiroga, were wrong. Equipment and works in health systems are not done without money and Osakidetza is no exception. I will repeat this: the reform of the enlargement of the HUA is under way; the Zestoa centre will be inaugurated next week; part of the work of OSI Bidasoa in emergencies has been done this year; part of the consultation building of OSI Goierri-Alto Urola; part of the Miribilla health centre; part of the Karmelo health centre; part of the work has been started in the health centre of Amorebita, and the Biocruces Institute has been tendered, not to mention the equipment. Do you think this I do with the 652,000 euros that made you tell Mrs Quiroga? Do you think so? Yeah? Look, Mrs. Garrido, put it down and find someone to explain it to you on the bench. Today 95 % of the planned works have been auctioned. Mrs Quiroga, I will repeat to you, 95% of the planned works, Mrs Garrido, compared to 86% of the same exercise last year. In other words, 9 % more has been tendered than the previous financial year and 60 % has been awarded. I already understand, that you would like things to go wrong, but this is from the Ebro down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-02.u180	Thank you, chief physician. Since the list of subjects has run out, I look upon the whole meeting as an end. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-four.
