ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. We're going to call the congressman Javier Ruiz de Arboulo Cerio. [[It's in.]] Good morning. Before we start the theme list, remember that the New House Earth has delegated the vote. Single point in theme list: "A full correction to the law plan of the municipal councils. The discussion and the vote. He's got the word to introduce the bill. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Congressmans, good morning to all of you. The purpose of my involvement in this day is to make a small account of the project of the Basque Town Law, because this is the first step of the whole wide correction which has been directed against this plan according to the Rule. My explanation, on the other hand, will have three parts: In the first place, I shall speak briefly of the plan of the law, and therefore I shall explain the principal contents of the law; the second will be the sole correction of the whole, and I shall examine what is set forth and planed there; and in the third part, it will be a more suitable explanation of the nature of the law in the following weeks. Let us then proceed with the first point, and I will first begin the first part before the others. It is not the first time that I have the honour to address the parliamentary groups to explain to them the contents of the municipal bill, which this Government referred to the House eight months ago. I did so about a year ago, in July last year, when the initiative we were talking about had not yet passed the preliminary draft phase, in a series of bilateral contacts which, leading a group in the department that I have the honour to lead, we worked with each and every one of the parliamentary groups that make up the House. And I did it again more recently, on December 10, 2014, on the occasion of an appearance that I carried out in the Committee on Institutions, Security and Justice of the House, of Parliament, in a certainly long, prolific appearance, which lasted about three hours, and where, no longer around a preliminary draft, but around a text that had been formally approved by the Executive and referred to the House, was already registered in the House, I had the opportunity to expound myself long and stretched and listen also to some of the contributions and reflections that the parliamentary groups had to do well. I believe that this background, the fact that I have already spoken repeatedly with the parliamentary groups regarding the content of the bill, exempts me from the need to reproduce now here data, information, reflections and considerations that have already been prolifically exposed and shared with the parliamentary groups, and I frankly believe that it is not necessary to repeat. I will therefore confine myself here to making a general, and telegraphic, consideration of what I consider most notable of the bill in the House. Well, the first thing I would like to highlight is the fact that the text you have in the House is not the original text of the Government. The original text of the Government, the Executive submitted it to the Basque City Council more than a year ago, and the Basque City Council set up a working group to analyse the content of the original text submitted by the Government and to reach the maximum possible level of consensus, or the minimum possible dissent in relation to the content of that articulated text. The group worked intensively during the months of April, May and June last year, and finally adopted a text which, after the phase of allegations and reports, has been referred to the House. The initial text during that process underwent numerous modifications. There is a comprehensive change control that highlights all the allegations made by representatives of the different institutional levels in the Basque City Commission, and the objective being pursued (the search for meeting points, or the minimization of discrepancies) can be ensured that it was achieved to a large extent. And the most evident evidence that effective results were actually achieved in maximizing consensus and minimizing dissent is that, after the legally established deadline, none of the outside bodies legitimated to bring matters of jurisdiction before the Arbitral Commission has done so. We can therefore say that this is not the first bill that the Government refers to the House in the matter of regulation of the municipal area of Euskadi, but it is the first and only one that, having been referred by the Government to the House, has not been the subject of any jurisdictional question before the Arbitral Commission. The main objective of the bill is to provide the Basque municipality with a level of local autonomy higher than that of the municipalities of the autonomous communities of the Spanish State. In other words, the local autonomy of the Basque municipalities is greater than that of the municipalities of any other autonomous community of the State. And this is actually achieved through two procedures. On the one hand, through the determination of a much broader area of competence of its own than that established on a basic basis by article 25 of the Local Law on Basis of Regime. If you compare the list of material areas set out in Article 17 of the project, which relates the material areas in which Basque municipalities may exercise their own powers, and compare it with the list set out in Article 25(1) of the Local Scheme Basis Act, which sets out the same question, the areas in which the municipalities of the State may have their own powers, you will be able to see that the difference is important. The list of the project at your disposal, which the House is going to analyse from now on, is much larger than that of the competences of the Local Regime Bases Act. This means, from the outset, that the material sphere over which the Basque municipalities will be able to exercise their own competences is greater. This is a first clear indicator of a higher level of local autonomy for the Basque municipalities, but it is also that the draft law recognizes the right of the Basque municipalities to participate actively, on the one hand, in the procedures for the elaboration of general provisions affecting their own competences, whether they are being processed at the autonomous level or those that are being processed at the foral level – something that is unprecedented in the autonomous comparative panorama of the Spanish State – and it also recognizes the ability of the Basque municipalities to be present in the inter-institutional forums in which decisions are made on their financing. Something – I also insist – that is unprecedented from a comparative perspective. For all this, we clearly believe that the bill that the Government has referred to the House is a bill that guarantees, which, if it finally comes into force, allows the Basque municipality to enjoy a level of local autonomy higher than that recognized by the basic rules of the State for the municipalities of the entire autonomous communities. It is not that the Government only says this; recently, in an academic forum constituted in Bilbao around this and other aspects of the municipal question, a reference person in the academic field, Francisco Velasco, who is a professor of administrative law and is a recognized specialist in the field of the municipal regime, said, in reference to the draft municipal law that the Government has referred to the House, which will undoubtedly constitute, if it is finally approved and enters into force, the maximum reference of recognition of local autonomy between the comparative legislative autonomic panorama. Until now – he said so – it had been Andalusian municipal law that had enjoyed this privilege. From now on you will say, if this law is finally passed, it will be the Basque law, without any doubt, for the competence it recognizes the municipality and for the power it recognizes the Basque municipality to participate directly and actively in the procedures for the elaboration of general provisions affecting them, affecting their own competence, and for the ability, above all, in a special way – this is unprecedented in the comparative field – that it recognizes them to be present there in the inter-institutional forums in which decisions affecting their financing are taken. As regards the second part of my speech, the amendment to the whole of which is to be debated and voted in the House today, allow me to make a brief reference, finally, to the person presenting it, to the political formation which embodies it in the House, and to the approach which the amendment makes. Well, the person presenting the amendment as a whole is a person, in short, a parliamentarian who, like all members of the House, deserves the utmost respect and consideration, of course, in the legitimate exercise that makes of his representative parliamentary power. But he is also – let us bear this in mind – a parliamentarian of a political formation whose imprint on the Basque municipal level is clearly reflected in the fact that, among the 2,633 councillors who were elected on 24 May, in the 251 Basque municipalities, he did not get one of them. Its footprint, its weight, its ascendant around the Basque municipality and in the Basque municipality, therefore, are clearly reflected in this data: on 24 May 2,633 councillors were elected in 251 Basque municipalities, and the political formation to which the person who submitted the amendment to the whole did not obtain a single councillor from all those who were the subject of representation. This does not in any way deprive you of the legitimacy to bring this appeal, this amendment to the whole of it, of course. Then what exactly does he challenge? A superficial reading of the written text that has been recorded in the House is sufficient to articulate through it the amendment to the whole, to show that, without prejudice to some discrepancies that it maintains and expresses in relation to the content of the articulated text of the draft referred by the Government to the House, its discrepancy focuses above all on the whole Basque institutional system, is it not? A whole, a Basque institutional system which, of course, is neither fundamental nor exclusively dependent on the regulation laid down in municipal law, but depends on what is basically provided for in the Constitution, the Constitution itself, and the Statute of Gernika. Therefore, if the objective is to change, alter the Basque institutional system as a whole, the appropriate instrument for this in no case could be a municipal law, which inevitably has to operate within the institutional framework that is already defined by the higher standards: by the Constitution and the Statute of Gernika. Well, and thirdly, allow me to conclude my speech with a reflection on the expectations that lie with the bill throughout its handling, over the coming weeks or months, in the House. I have already said before that the municipal bill that the Government has referred to the House is the result of the effort to minimize dissent that took place within the Basque City Council. In spite of this, the parliamentary groups have recorded 451 partial amendments, which reflect (it is clear that a superficial reading of them is sufficient), reflect views which are not different, but which are antagonistic, absolutely irreconcilable. Integrating all these points of view, integrating all these amendments into a single consensus text, is little less than impossible, given the distance between the approaches advocated by the parliamentary groups and those reflected in the amendments made and recorded by the others. It is therefore going to take an immense effort, if I may be allowed to express, to give flexibility, to give up positions, to bring everyone closer together. The Government is in the process of seeking help, of striving to find these meeting points, but I believe that inevitably, given the enormous gap between the positions defended by some and other parliamentary groups around the draft law, an effort of flexibility and approximation on the part of all will be needed. In the debate on the municipal regime in Euskadi it is usually common for two different perspectives to converge, the foralist and the municipalist, often also covered with openly confronted terms. That is, those who defend municipalist positions do so from anti-foralism, and those who defend outlawist positions usually do so from anti-municipalism. Well, the bill that Parliament has already registered and that is being processed is both, it's municipalist and it's outlawist. And it cannot be otherwise as long as the Constitution is what it is and as long as the Statute of Gernika is what it is. He is a municipalist, as he said before, because he seeks to provide the Basque municipality with a level of local autonomy higher than that of the municipalities of any other autonomous community, and he is outlawist, as it cannot be otherwise, and this is also reflected in the fact that he has not been subject to a single question of competition by any foreign deputy before the Arbitral Commission. This point of balance that tries to seek the law between foralism and municipalism, derived from the legal system – inevitable, on the other hand, while, I insist, the Constitution remains the one that it is and the Statute of Gernika remains the one that it is – can be modified, but I would like to alert the House about the risks that this may entail as well. The possibility of recourse to the Constitutional Court is obvious, and the Constitutional Court has the capacity to go in and analyse whether the law violates local autonomy – which I do not believe it does – or violates the constitutionally guaranteed foral autonomy. The Government is committed to working with parliamentary groups to achieve the maximum balance between the different legal assets that come into play when passing the law (municipalism, foralism, and autonomy as well), and will do so with responsibility, common sense and balance, seeing the Basque municipalities, which will thank the House for the early adoption of a law that will definitively define its competence of action and place the Basque municipality in the Basque institutional context. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The Misto-UPyD team has the word to defend the full correction. Someone else wants to defend it, too? No. It's your word, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u3	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr Lehendakari, Counsellor, Counsellor. I will express in my first sentence of this speech the fundamental reason why we are presenting at the time and today I defend this complete amendment to the municipal bill: because this law does not bring anything relevant. And the laws, in our opinion, must be and serve to transform reality and to improve people's lives, not to leave everything basically as it is. This law, in particular, does not bring anything relevant, and it also strengthens the Basque institutional framework that we want to change. This is basically the fundamental reason why we are presenting this amendment in its entirety: because what is intended is to consolidate the Basque institutional framework, rather than actually promoting all the legal reforms that are necessary to profoundly change this framework. So this project does not contribute, it does nothing, it does not change reality, it does not improve the lives of the people, and it secures and fixes the institutional field of the Basques. Therefore, the correction of the whole of us: not to disturb, but to have a better law. We therefore do not intend to impose any restrictions on the Government or on the adoption of a municipal law with the introduction of this amendment as a whole. We do not want to delay the work that needs to be done so that we can have the possible municipal law, but what we obviously do not want to do is look elsewhere. And hence the partial amendments that we have recorded at the time, and also this whole amendment. Therefore, it is a comprehensive amendment that is presented in a constructive spirit, to say that in this Parliament at least there is a political group that does not share at all the municipal bill that has been brought in and that what you intend to tell the Government is, in the end, to bring us a better, much more ambitious project, and in the meantime, you defend as government all the legal changes that are necessary to change this institutional framework that we suffer. This is the objective of our partial amendments and of our entire amendment. Therefore, considering the content of the Basque municipal bill presented by this Government, we present this amendment in its entirety, because the Basque Government intends with this bill, as it literally states, "to bring the process of articulation between the three institutional levels of Basque and to complete the Basque institutional building", rather than to seek to reform it deeply. We are presenting this amendment in its entirety because the Government takes into account – and I read literally – "the complex Basque institutional architecture and the economic and financial regime of the Community and its historical territories, derived from the first additional provision of the Constitution and the Law on Economic Concert, as well as from the other regulations that have brought about the updating of Basque historical rights", rather than taking into account the real interests of citizens and, consequently, defending and promoting their modernization and reform in advance. This has been permanently refused to do in recent times; this has been permanently refused by all governments in recent times: modernizing our structure, starting with the Spanish Constitution, following the Statute of Gernika itself, the Law on Historical Territories, the Law on Economic Concert and everything else. All that is what we deeply want to change. We believe that we must change all that the Basque Government claims and intends to consolidate. We present a complete amendment because the Government intends to turn municipal law, as it literally points out, into an "updating standard of historical rights in local affairs derived from the Basque foral regime", rather than updating and modernizing the absurd and complex Basque institutional framework, with all the political actions and legal reforms that are necessary. We tabled a comprehensive amendment because the Government stresses that the bill "scrupulously respects the unique position of the historical territories in the Basque institutional framework", rather than underlining the need to move forward in their modernisation, simplification and reform, as a way for Basque citizens to have an institutional architecture that meets our needs sooner rather than later. And we tabled a complete amendment because this bill, in short, seeks to consolidate the nonsense, inefficient, inefficient and absurd Basque institutional framework, while UPyD considers its reform and modernisation to be urgent and indispensable. By the way, as I said at the outset, introducing a comprehensive amendment to a bill that does not change or improve anything, and that does not represent any relevant progress, is not boycotting or hindering anything. We are simply struggling to bring our ideas to the legislative level. The real boycotters are those who have been unable to bring a minimally decent municipal law to the Basque Parliament in thirty-five years, or those who simply understand politics as maintaining the old structures and distributing positions, rather than understanding it as what it really should be: transformation, change and renewal. That is how we understand politics. Politics must not be used to leave everything basically as it is, to maintain the privileges of some, to make nothing change, but for what it must be used to transform reality, to modernise us also in this case. UPyD, therefore, believes in the policy that transforms, in the policy that regenerates, in the policy that struggles to change the old structures, in the policy that observes and responds to the needs of citizens. Anyway, if we've waited more than thirty years to have a municipal law, we can wait a few more months. Today, we want to tell the Basque Government that this is not the law that Basque society needs. It is indeed important that Euskadi has a municipal law as soon as possible; we have defended it all these years in this Parliament, we have pointed it out on countless occasions. But a municipal law that clearly and definitively sets out the competences to be assumed by local corporations; a municipal law to guarantee the financial self-sufficiency of local entities; a municipal law to reform and modernize the structure of our local administration; a municipal law to place the municipalities in their place, as the closest institution to the citizens, that can play an essential role in meeting the most sensitive and relevant needs of these; a municipal law that also promotes the merger of the smaller municipalities, as we have been claiming in absolute solitude during all these years in this Parliament and also in the Congress of Deputies, and a municipal law that guarantees citizen participation and maximum transparency. However, this project does not represent any progress or change anything relevant, and it also consolidates the absurd Basque institutional framework. Because it is absurd, in our view, and I reiterate it again, that an autonomous community such as Euskadi, with only 2 million inhabitants, has four parliaments, four governments, three haciendas, three different fiscal policies, or 251 municipalities. This is absolutely absurd, which must change sooner or later. And we want to change it, and obviously we also take this opportunity to claim it again. And 251 municipalities, of which almost three quarters have less than 5,000 inhabitants: 94% of the Alavese municipalities and two thirds of the Vizcay and Gipuzcoans do not reach 5,000 inhabitants. Two Basque municipalities have less than 100 inhabitants; 21 are between 101 and 250 residents; 78 have between 251 and 1,000 inhabitants; 47 do not reach 2,000, and 36 are between 2,001 and 5,000 inhabitants. Only 67 Basque municipalities exceed 5,000 inhabitants. Only 43 have more than 10,000 inhabitants, the minimum number that the Council of Europe considers necessary to provide adequate services. And only 21 have more than 20,000 inhabitants, the magnitude that various studies establish as a threshold of effectiveness for the provision of services. This is also the Basque municipal map, which we want to change deeply. The municipal and provincial organization of Spain originated in the first third of the 19th century. It's been two centuries, and some things are still the same; so is this. We maintain at the local level an institutional structure almost identical to that which we had two hundred years ago, which, in short, does not seem to make sense given the great changes that have taken place in all these years. Even the 1978 Constitution did not bring about changes in the local structure, and it has even retreated, as there have been certain segregations of municipalities, also in Euskadi. And while this is so, the different governments seem to hold on to each other's arms. They do not propose any relevant changes, they pretend that everything remains the same, and we want to change this profoundly. The size and population of the municipalities has shown that it is a further source of inequality for citizens, who, depending on where they live, have and enjoy greater and better public services. And this is a proven fact. Even life expectancy changes depending on the municipality where one lives or where each of us was born. In recent times, there has been a worrying gap in the different delivery of many basic public services and in the development of other new services, which are increasingly needed in today's society to facilitate coexistence and promote social and economic development. The high cost, the increase in minimum quality requirements, or the poor neighbourhood population in many areas, are some of the causes that highlight the need to seriously reconsider the Basque municipal map and, therefore, to promote a process of merging municipalities that this law obviously does not cover. Many European countries have already made progress in this regard, and they have done so in recent years. Municipal mergers have taken place in Germany in recent decades, from almost 20,000 to 8,000 municipalities; in Denmark, which at one time abolished 90% of the municipalities; in Belgium, which decreased from 1,259 to 598; in Holland, Sweden... Almost all European countries have recently carried out this process of uniting, merging municipalities with the aim of providing better public services to all citizens. In Spain this has not been done, it does not change, all structures are maintained as they have been for decades, and in Euskadi as well. And we think that all this needs to be changed, and indeed UPyD is proposing a profound reform of this framework. In addition to carrying out an ambitious process of merging municipalities in the way that has been done in all the countries of our environment, we advocate the abolition of the general boards of historic territories and outlaws. These measures would bring enormous benefits related to equality, service provision or transparency. In this new scenario, all necessary legal reforms, including constitutional reforms, should be promoted in order to achieve a new distribution of competences between Europe, the Government of Spain, autonomous communities and merged municipalities, with a size of at least 10,000 inhabitants. But this municipal bill introduced by the Government also dismisses the merger of municipalities, and misses a historic opportunity to initiate that process. In addition, the historical singularities, old relics of the past that we are lashed with, are not updated, while local letter is granted to joint ventures or any other entity that groups several entities. That is, far from ordering the institutional framework, its excessive growth is patched up and ratified. This project points out certain objectives that we could share, but that it does not meet at all. He points out a number of objectives that may be fine, but reading the law in depth quickly concludes that not one of these objectives is going to be met, or at least it is going to be met to the extent that we think they should be met. Thus, it speaks of competitive clarification, it speaks of strengthening the institutional role of the municipality, it speaks of adequate financing, it speaks of giving the Basque municipality a wide range of powers, it speaks of strengthening local institutions and recognizing the Basque municipalities a satisfactory level of local autonomy, or it speaks of strengthening the instruments of access to information and citizen participation in the design, decision and implementation of local public policies. He points out those goals, but does practically nothing to achieve them. Indeed, it seems that what this project is trying to do is to please some of the other groups in this House, and that is fine, that a government intends to do so that a law can be passed. What happens is that we don't think it's enough for laws to be passed. The laws that are passed have to be good and have to change many things, and they have to change reality. And in that sense, this bill is deeply conservative. The almighty outlaws are being consolidated. There is no clarification of municipal competences. In our view, municipal autonomy is not guaranteed. The equality of Basque citizens is not guaranteed regardless of the municipality where they reside. That, yes, is created, or is intended to create, a new step of friends of the party, to the detriment of highly qualified officials who should occupy the head offices of the area in the municipalities. Anyway, and a lot more than we obviously don't share. We will continue to defend a municipal law that promotes the merger of the smaller municipalities, as has been done in almost all the countries of our environment, thereby reducing unnecessary spending and administrative obstacles, with the aim of better serving and caring for citizens and being more efficient. A municipal law to strengthen the institutional role of the municipality and ensure adequate funding and municipal autonomy; a municipal law to strengthen instruments of access to information and citizen participation; and a municipal law incorporating advanced measures of transparency at the local level. However, this bill does not meet the main objectives set out above, and that is why we call for its return to the Basque Government. As I say, we have been presented with a deeply conservative project, in the sense that it maintains what we already have and supports, justifies, legitimises the crazy Basque institutional framework that we want to reform. And such a decision is profoundly detrimental to the interests of Basque citizens, who see wasted a new opportunity to modernize their institutions and their complex institutional architecture. That is why we call for this bill to be returned to the Government, so that, in the meantime, it will defend all the legal changes that are necessary to modernize us internally and will later present us with a real modern municipal law, which will actually be useful for solving the problems of Basque citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u4	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. And when they turn to the other side, who want to participate? Mr. Zurilla? Someone from the grand side... ? No? Not the Social Party? Collect EH... Oh, yes, I'm sorry, Mariann. Yeah. All right, let's start with Marian Betial. So it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u5	Thank you, and good day to all. The text presented to us as a municipal law is to be accepted as a law for the institutions of the Basque Country and we know that there is a lot of improvement in the way to do it. We are critics with what has been done before, for the division given to local institutions in the text of which we have been introduced has been very limited, and the term required by the councils to contribute is not given in the course of presenting the amendments of these parlamentary groups in the course of time when the time which they are asked has been easily exceeded. Consequently, we believe that the privations we have to repair are visible, but we believe that, if it is a will to agree, it may be done in that procedure which remains to us, and we hold out our hand to be so. The law we're dealing with is very important, so far as it's to help us develop the important function of local institutions in the Basque Country in the future. For this reason, when we have been waiting for more than 30 years for the importance of the law, we have the opportunity of making a law, the Basque Country has not shown any correction to the full, and therefore will not protect what is presented. And he will not, besides what has been said, that we do not agree with what is maintained in it, saying that the municipal autonomy is defending itself, because the townships seek to destroy it, or because this law is intended to make use of it to change the institutional organization we now have, when this dispute is otherwise to be done. We don't have the same targets in this law. First of all, we seek that the Euscal Autonomy Office Acts of the Esquires are another step to make the Basque People's Building. The French and Spanish jurists are not a legal camp in the Basque Country, and these people cannot determine a free and democratic model of democracy in their own place. But as long as we do not succeed in this very democratic state, we must employ the legal sphere of the Basque Country to serve the construction and democratic establishment of the Basque Country, and its social modification. The existence of local institutions, where they have real jurisdictions, makes it possible that they should be connected with the executive and popular administration, and thereby protect and strengthen the autonomy of the place, to build a future founded on the principles of democracy and of the centralization of government. Second, Euscala House Administration must be Basque. To protect and normalize the Basques, as the language of the Basque People is natural and common, is first to serve as the public powers of Euscala. The Basque House Administration must be entirely eucalyplicated, which means that the eucalyptus must be its usual language of work. The Basque has no future, if it is merely a formal request to enter the public employment on the eucalyptus. The local administration must be an example and an example to complete its reconnaissance, which demands that these administrations have to make a fair deal of their own inability to keep themselves in company. Third, we make a strong bet on local autonomy, the principle of subsidy and the want of finance. It is time now to investigate the principles of local autonomy and of the recipient of democracy. The approach of the government to the people is a very political necessity, that the right of participation should be real and effective, in order that the administration of public resources and affairs may be a proper control and part of the people. It must be openly made for the near-ranking government, for the political and financial strength of the local institutions, in order to maintain a part of democracy and of their interests. In order to complete this principle, the finances cannot have a premise of the confession of the jurisdictions of the local institutions which guarantee autonomy, but the consequence. And therefore it is declared that the Euscal institutions, within the circle of the Economic Concertation, will maintain the local funding to be a part of the rights given by the municipal councils, in order that their local autonomy may be the real autonomy of their place. As far as the financial model is concerned, we do not allow it to be said that the jurisdictions which have hitherto been financed have been sufficient. We think we can't say that before we take the test. We believe, on the other hand, that in the laws or formulas which the townships are invested with jurisdiction, it is impossible to assert that the means of providing finance are not liable to increase the expense. We believe, when he asks, that we must take measures, and that the Basque Council of the United Nations will have to accomplish the means necessary to the institutions. This law, as it is necessary for the people to maintain the standard of actually taking part, ought also to be proposed in the matters which the local institutions produce, in the mutation of laws, in concerts in the Ecconomics, etc., to participate directly. It is not only this division of representatives to be entrusted with associations, for instead of making local institutions visible, they become capable of fighting for faction, and not of the real subject of their future. We do not therefore suppose that it is proper that the representation of the local institutions should be left in the hands of Eudeles, by giving him the whole delegation, and also the monopoly. We propose that the Basque Country should be the representatives of the local institutions themselves. From this way we shall succeed in giving a significant step to the absence of years, in making as good a law as possible, to direct and define the situation of the local institutions, but at the same time to confess the autonomy of the administration, the real, the sufficient financiality, cannot be otherwise. That's what we're gonna do for the Basque Country from Union. And again, we mean our entire will to improve by agreement, to those who would improve in the direction above mentioned. And it does not seem to us that the law has been sent back to correct the privations of long years, or the mistakes committed in the procedure. That's why we do this whole correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. The position of the legislature will, of course, be to vote against the general correction introduced by UPD, and consequently to enable us to continue in the work of the city of Euscal, in the shortest possible period, to produce the best local law for the achievement. I believe all of us who are here know the importance of accepting this law; that is the only thing that we agree in your text, Mr. Maneiro: It is important that there should be a municipal law from Euská as soon as possible, although afterwards this intention does not agree with reality. For the correction of your whole system seems to have a clear intention of prolonging the discussion, and therefore to postpone the work of poncience until October. But no, patriotic and socialist groups have asked us to set up this meeting today and once to discuss your full-range correction so that we can continue with the work of crime. The municipal law of Euskadi is necessary to complete the process of articulation between the three institutional levels of government of Euskadi, and is urgent after the adoption of the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration at the end of last year. And this despite the fact that, thanks to the negotiations of the Basque Nationalist Party, during the processing of this law in the General Courts, it was possible to introduce various additional provisions to safeguard the uniqueness of our institutional system (if you do not like it, Mr Maneiro), which will allow us to set up a local regime of its own that has nothing to do with the municipalities of the common system, as Mr Erkoreka said, as regards competition and the economic-financial regime. This is of relevance to us, Mr Maneiro, and we believe that it substantially improves the situation of our municipalities compared to what is proposed by the basic legislation of the State. That is why we are faced with a priority in this Parliament for the Basque Government. As noted and commented by Mr Erkoreka, the Basque municipal bill was approved on the board of government on November 11, 2014, its immediate referral to this House, and its presentation at its own request, in the committee, by the Minister of Public Administration and Justice on December 10 last year. This bill is the result of an important open and participatory process through the Basque City Council, from which came a basic text in which representatives of the various institutions concerned participated, which represented – important that – at the same time represented the main political sensitivities. And, Mr Maneiro, you will agree with me that the work was complex, because it is necessary to seek a balance in the Basque institutional architecture, because logically each of the institutions can have legitimate claims to have the greatest powers and powers vis-à-vis the others, and in order to avoid doubts and competing conflicts, as has happened previously, this time a point of initial balance has been achieved that we must all preserve, and thus avoid possible problems that make the virtuality of that law ineffective at the time it was adopted, as Mr Erkoreka said. And also, as it could not be otherwise, you have to respect the current institutional legal framework, which you sometimes seem to be unaware of. That is to say, in order to put forward things that you tell us here, it is necessary to make modifications..., which has also made reference to constitutional reform, but be planted where it is appropriate for that. It is therefore an integral law, because it regulates two basic aspects of local autonomy, of municipal autonomy: the competences of the municipalities, and their financing, something that has never been done in another autonomous community of the State. It is intended, and we believe it is achieved, that our municipalities be true local powers, not mere servers or service providers. In addition to establishing innovative systems of inter-agency participation and collaboration, this also seems to us to be very relevant to our group. We are going to vote against your amendment as a whole because precisely the reasons you put forward in your justification for submitting the amendment as a whole, for us, constitute a large part of the virtue of this bill. It says "Because with this bill it is intended to complete the process of articulation between the three institutional levels of Euskadi and complete the Basque institutional building". Indeed, Mr Maneiro, it is a necessary law to contribute to the closure of the articulation of the Basque institutional system. Following the Statute of Gernika and the Historical Territories Act, the circle of internal institutionalization of Euskadi is closed. It also says "Because it takes into account" – as it could not be otherwise – "the complex Basque institutional architecture and the economic-financial regime of the Autonomous Community and its historical territories, derived from the first additional provision of the Constitution and the Law on Economic Concert". It is precisely this political legal system which has been agreed with the State, Mr Maneiro, that has enabled us to achieve the levels achieved in the area of self-government and the development of social policies and the state of welfare: education, employment, social aid, etc., matters which have a direct bearing on the daily life and quality of life of the citizens; in short, with what you call the real interests of the citizens. And here we do want to highlight a contradiction that we understand occurs in their approaches. On the one hand, it denies the legal-economic regime that we have and that allows us, as I said, to have levels of social policy and welfare state that are worthy of mention at state level, even at European level, and, on the other hand, you are then the first to aim for innovative rights and rights that are not given in other communities, which I do not know where you can look for those ways of financing. So, I want to highlight that contradiction that can often be presented in UPyD. Thirdly, he says, he also opposes "because he intends to make municipal law an up-to-date norm of historical rights in local matters derived from the Basque foral regime". The specialties of the local Basque regime come directly under the protection and respect of Basque historical rights, which are protected, as we said, by the first additional provision of the Constitution, and by its updating. And this will make it possible to make progress in establishing a system of local government of its own in the Basque Country. And finally it also says that it opposes "because it scrupulously respects the singular position assumed by the historical territories in the institutional architecture that is consolidated through this law". Logically, that's what this is about, but, as we said, looking for the right balance between the three institutional levels of Euskadi. And, in the face of this, what does UPyD propose? He has already told us on many occasions, and today he has again explained it here. They basically lay down two things: the abolition of the general councils of the historical territories and of the outlaws, and defending, as he says in his amendment of the whole, all the initiatives that are necessary to guarantee the greatest possible equality, so that the taxes paid and the services provided are similar throughout the Basque Country (and we understand, although he does not say so, and by extension, in his uniforming spirit, throughout the Spanish State). But you have repeatedly made these approaches in this House, and, as you said on the other issue of the merger of municipalities, you have remained in absolute solitude, as you often acknowledge. The other point also points out that it is essential to proceed with an ambitious process of merging and abolishing the municipalities. He raised it here in the last legislature, raised it in Congress, and today he has acknowledged his absolute loneliness in this matter, both in this House and in Congress. And, at the same time as recognizing that absolute loneliness, it therefore criticizes that it is not envisaged in the municipal bill; that is, that they have not transferred their approaches, in that absolute loneliness, to a normative text that will affect all institutional areas. Bukatzeko, and as we have been demonstrating in the various appearances in committee, we encourage the different political sensitivities present in this House to make an effort to make this the final one, and Euskadi can count on the best municipal law within the shortest possible time. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u8	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing to the answer shift, Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u9	Thank you very much, President. Without any new developments on the parliamentary front in relation to these issues, and of course this whole amendment will be rejected by a majority of groups which I understand intend to leave everything basically as it is, and try to reach minimum consensus, but which, in the end, is that nothing important changes. We're not for this. We are here to profoundly change the reality and to put forward things that in some case no other group proposes, indeed, such as this of profoundly reforming the institutional framework, suppressing the general boards of the historical territories, suppressing the outlaws, or carrying out a process of merging municipalities. I wish we were a majority, but as long as we are present in the different institutions we will continue to defend these ideas, because we think that they are the most just ideas and the most necessary ideas to defend the interests of the citizens. And yes, indeed, Mr Zorrilla, in that whole amendment that we have tabled include the arguments of UPyD, which we have been defending all this time and which you, of course, do not share, but are there perfectly gathered our arguments, as it could not be otherwise. I see no contradiction in the arguments raised by UPyD. It may be arguments that you do not share, it is perfectly respectable, but I do not see that there is any kind of contradiction. On the contrary, it is pure consistency with what we have been defending over all these years. It's pure consistency. The absurd and contradictory thing would have been that UPyD had not tabled a complete amendment to this bill which seeks to leave everything basically as it is, and which is very unambitious, and which is deeply conservative. That would have been contradictory. To present that amendment in its entirety, to include our arguments in that amendment and to defend it is, of course, pure consistency, and that is what we will continue to do. You say that the purpose is to begin the work of the paper as soon as possible, and it will indeed be so. Today, afterward, this presentation will be made. We do not aim to delay the adoption of the various laws, we have no boycotting spirit, we have no willingness to delay the draft laws or to delay the presentations that need to be articulated in this Parliament. Quite the opposite. We want you to work harder and better. In fact, there are a number of speeches which are absolutely standing in this Parliament and which we are insistently calling for to be launched. Therefore, there is no boycotting spirit. Man, what I don't admit is that you come to say almost that UPyD is responsible for not having a municipal law in July, right? Because we've been out of municipal law for thirty-five years, and I don't know exactly what you've done, apart from looking at the muzzles, so that Euskadi can have a municipal law. Because you have been demanding the necessity and urgency of this law, and it has been thirty-five years and you have not reached any consensus. As important as it was. We have been in this Parliament for six years. Neither before nor during the presence of UPyD in this Parliament has a municipal bill been presented here, until this one has now been introduced. Therefore, no boycotting attitude. What I'm saying is that, since it's so urgent and so important that we have a municipal law, what we want is to have the best municipal law possible. And of course we are not going to waste any kind of debate to defend the approaches that we have always advocated: in-depth reform of the institutional framework, indeed. And this bill – and the government says so – is intended to consolidate all of that. You have read part of the amendment in its entirety, you have explained the reasons why we are submitting that amendment in its entirety. You have forgotten to read the second part of each of the sentences that you have read, where UPyD comes to ask what the government should do instead of defending everything as it is. He's forgotten, but I think it's clear what UPyD stands for. Therefore, in the end, delay work at all. That is another of the arguments put forward also by Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, who comes to say that they do not vote in favour of this amendment in its entirety because municipal law has already been delayed long enough. Of course, being late so much is not UPyD's responsibility, and it may mean that it is a very important law. And since it is a very important law, we want the best possible bill to be brought. And, of course, this which has been presented to us does not imply any significant change. By the way, something that the various opposition groups have been expressing all these days publicly, which in fact this bill does not represent any relevant progress. You and you intend to change this bill through partial amendments. We will be discussing these partial amendments, but we do not think that it is enough to table partial amendments, and that these partial amendments will hardly change what we want to change in relation to this municipal bill. We have been told by one group and another that we intend to make municipalities disappear and abolish them. I do not know whether you do not understand well, or whether you do not look around a little, and specifically towards Europe, to understand that this process of merging municipalities is something that all the countries in our environment have carried out in recent years. It's not suppressing anything. It is to merge municipalities to have better municipalities, to give better services to citizens, to provide better benefits to citizens. This is what we have been defending and what has been done in all the countries of Europe. This is the process we are defending: having stronger municipalities to provide better services. And yes, we have been defending him in the Congress of Deputies, we have defended him here, and we have defended him – right – alone. We will see if in the coming times this changes and we begin to speak more deeply about this matter which we consider absolutely relevant. The spokesman for the Basque Government said that this is a municipalist and outlawist bill, and it can indeed be. We preferred or would have liked it to be a municipalist and non-outalist bill. That everything we want to change cannot be changed with the adoption of municipal law? Obviously. What happens is that I have not seen this government predisposed, but quite the contrary, to carry out all those changes that we demand, from the amendment of the Spanish Constitution to the abolition of the outlaws, through the abolition of the provincial parliaments or this extensive process of merging municipalities. And it makes all sense, I understand, to present all these arguments also in this entire amendment to municipal law. I mean, it's a very unambitious text, that little is going to change reality in Euskadi. It is not a question of saying that we have a more finally passed law, if it is finally passed; it is not a question of closing the institutional framework. It's not about that, it's about having the best possible laws, and this law doesn't mean a single advance. It does not represent any relevant progress; it basically leaves everything as it is. That is why our amendment in its entirety. I say – I repeat, I said earlier – that we will continue to defend that we can have the best possible municipal law; a municipal law that clearly and definitively sets out the competences to be assumed by local corporations (and this does not), a municipal law to guarantee the financial self-sufficiency of local entities (and this does not), a municipal law to reform and modernize the structure of our local administration (and this does not), and a municipal law to place the municipalities in their place (and this does not). It does not do any of this, and, of course, it does not promote the merger of municipalities. Mr. Zorrilla, please make some argument in relation to your refusal to carry out this process of merger of municipalities, present and present in this rostrum some weighty argument to defend that there is no need to merge municipalities, in Euskadi or outside of Euskadi. But do it with arguments, present some relevant data, some study you've done. Tell us something, don't just tell us that this process only defends UPyD. It's not about that. This is about you defending some argument, some argument that contradicts everything that has been done in the big European countries. Some argument. And from there we can discuss it. Anyway, these are our arguments, these are our reasons. Obviously we will be present in that presentation, we will defend our partial amendments, we will try to have the best possible municipal law, we will try to do everything we need, but we cannot under any circumstances give the okey to a bill or a law that misses an opportunity and leaves everything basically as it is. We are not a conservative party, you are, and I understand that you do not intend to change anything, but we want to change a great deal in depth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u10	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing on the second round to answer, we don't... Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u11	Yes, Mr. President. With your permission, from my seat, just to say two things to Mr. Maneiro. With regard to the merger of municipalities, well, I do not think we are going to reproduce a parliamentary debate that took place in February 2012. If you want, you can do it at any time. But we do want to say a couple of things. We feel that others do not see what we have around Europe, and we think you do not see what we have here. Perhaps it can be due, as Mr Erkoreka said, to his lack of municipal representation in this country, and perhaps he does not know the municipal reality of this country. And secondly, it is evident, and it is constantly evident, that we are starting from different conceptions. The PNV, the Basque Nationalist Party, will fulfill one hundred and twenty years of history, in which its goal has always been the same, always the same: using all legal instruments, achieving the highest levels of self-government and improving the quality of life of all citizens living in this country. While UPyD, in its constant spirit, has always maintained the same objective, it must be recognized: in its uniforming spirit, it seeks to laminate from a pen all those rights achieved throughout history. And, logically, we are radically opposed to this, and I believe that citizenship is showing you, at least in Euskadi, that it does not share these approaches either. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u12	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Now that the discussion's over, we'll vote to see if the bill gets back to you or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 68; votes given, 69; in favour 1, 68; white, 0; abstations; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u13	So, he's not going back to the government's bill of law. Next, passing on to the vote, Mrs Garrido. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. The law of Eztabaida allegatu egin da – galaia zen–, eta esan dezakegu gobernu guztien subject pending izan from her. This law has been the subject of all governments. The successive governments of this Autonomous Community of the Basque Country have abandoned their responsibilities to light up a municipal law. Of course, we have not been pioneers here at all. Eta lege honek euskal autonomeren egituraren bertebrazioa osatzen du. That's why we say this law is not just any law. This law is a fundamental law for the completion of institutional and competitive vertebration in Euskadi. That is why we say it is an absolutely essential law. Eta horregatik aipatzen dugu aukera nabaria galdu dugula lege honekin eta espektatibak ez say the bete. And in our view, an opportunity has been missed, a clear opportunity, because on the one hand the competences of the various institutional levels are not clearly defined, things tend to be left as they are; on the other hand, the principle of local autonomy is not guaranteed, clarifying the competences and their corresponding financing and the assessment of the actual cost, which is a concept that we have wanted to introduce in our amendments. The concept of financial sustainability is not sufficiently affected. From this Illus we may say that they are not defined by the jurisdiction of all institutions, or of different institutions, and that is why we say that we have lost the obvious choice. In addition, this bill interferes with the powers of outside institutions. The extraneous singularity of our deputies has not been preserved, because we can say that the spirit that permeates this entire bill is a certain impairment of these peculiarities, embodied in various aspects that we do not share. On the other hand, peculiarities of the historical territories, in particular of the historical territory of Álava, are obvious, and it seems that this bill has been addressed to those who do not want to fully safeguard our external identity. And the question, Mr Lehendakari, Mr Erkoreka, ladies and gentlemen of the Government, is whether, in the course of the process of this bill, in the discussion of the amendments, outside powers will continue to be diluted, undermining our outside singularities, on what I have to say will obviously depend on our outside position. But while the powers of our municipalities have been undermined, diluted or reduced, the powers of our municipalities have not been clearly defined. This is not a question of being a municipalist or outlawist, because we believe that Basque municipalism, according to these peculiarities that have given us the existing legal framework, the existing legality, and that they are therefore recognized in the Constitution in its first additional provision, in the Law on Economic Concert, in the Law on Historical Territories, it is a question of having a municipalism of its own within that singularity, which is what has not tended to illuminate, to visualize this draft law. They were talking about consensus. Indeed, consensus will have to be sought, because positions are also different. That consensus that has not been there from the beginning. That consensus was also not possible in the Municipal Council, because the discrepancies between Eudel, the Members of Parliament and the Government were clear, and so it was also so late to refer a bill to this Parliament. There were also many allegations submitted to the preliminary draft law. We believe that, therefore, issues that should have been resolved have not been resolved, and that in that regard, as I said, we have missed an opportunity. But, despite being critical of this bill, and that is reflected in the many amendments we have tabled, partial amendments (not amendment to the whole, but yes 182 partial amendments), we want to have an absolutely constructive attitude. Because if there is any group that in this House has claimed this law, this municipal law absolutely necessary to close the circle of the configuration of our institutional and competitive framework, that has been the People's Party. In this position of coherence, we believe that it is time to have a municipal law. But not just any municipal law. That is why we have incorporated in our amendments many aspects of concrete improvements which have to do with fixing the specificities of the historical territories, with clearer delineation of competences and their financing. Because the powers of the municipalities and their funding are not clearly defined. Therefore, here it does not place itself in the place that corresponds to the autonomy of our municipalities within that singularity. That does not clash, but that everything has to go together, and you have not established it that way in this bill. We reinforce specific issues that have to do with transparency and citizen participation, because we believe that this is the time, and in that regard we also believe that an opportunity has been missed. More transparency in the appointment and adoption of agreements by bodies such as the Basque Council for Local (non-municipal) Public Policies; the elimination of bodies that are instrumental entities and lead to clear duplications, such as the Local Government Commission, and, of course, to safeguard outside competition but to guarantee this municipalism, of what this municipal law has to deal with. In short, ladies and gentlemen, we are voting against the whole amendment because we believe that this is not the way forward. The way is to try to correct the numerous shortcomings of this bill, and our improvements are reflected in the successive amendments tabled by the People's Group. And we will see what the attitude of this Government is in the search for such consensus. Broad consensuses, that we believe they have to accompany a...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u15	Finish up, Mrs Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u16	... draft law of these characteristics, to a law of these characteristics. And consensuses that have somehow not been sought so far. And we'll also see what the government's position is, if it's going to be to lower municipal powers...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u17	Finish up, Mrs Garrido...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u18	... or seek, as I say, the broadest possible agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u19	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u20	Thank you, President. The Basque Socialists want, I suppose, like everyone else, a municipal law that defines the framework of action of the municipalities with criteria of modernity, efficiency, and above all public service. Because we cannot forget that the municipality – it is repeated many times, but it is very true – is the administration closest to the citizen, the first door to which people are going to call. That is why it seems to us a misconception that at this point in time Euskadi still does not have this framework, although we all know perfectly well why it has been. A law that puts the municipalities on an equal footing, with the rest of the institutions, in order to effectively provide the citizens with the services of their competence, and that recognizes them with the financial resources that are theirs. And this law can't wait any longer. And because we are very late, too, we cannot further delay your approval, because – and I say this with the utmost respect, Mr Maneiro – one of the seventy-five parliamentarians in this House, of a group that does not have municipal representatives, wants to slow down the parliamentary process of the project with its amendment to the whole, all in order to be able to make its speech. The other opposition groups have already expressed our appreciation of this draft submitted by the Basque Government, with varying degrees of criticism, but we have given up amending it in its entirety in view of the need to have a municipal law. And UPyD did not want to give up making that speech; the speech, I repeat, of a parliamentarian of seventy-five. You have seen the result of the vote. And that's where we're on July 13, 2015. Socialists can better claim our coherence with regard to this pending subject of the internal institutional architecture of the Basque Country in terms of what it refers to the municipalities. We have worked hard to have a municipal law, being in the Basque Government and being in opposition. We can ratify ourselves point by point in everything we said in the plenary on 31 January 2013, when we discussed the consideration of the proposal for a municipal law presented by the socialists. Therefore, this is not the first time this law has been debated in this House, Mr Maneiro. A law that called for the Basque municipalities to have their own law that would put an end to the current indefinacy and provide them with sufficient skills and resources to meet people's demands. We said that we had urgency of this law demanded by the municipalities themselves, of all colors, because its content affects issues that have to do very directly with people's lives, with services such as water supply or garbage, or social assistance, or urban planning, or child education and so much more that the Basque municipalities attend every day. And on some occasions, more than desirable, assuming competences that are not their own and, of course, without sufficient funding to tackle them. We believe that municipalities have to have a majority and believe in municipal autonomy, which is more than just a statement to look good. That is why we disagree in many of the things that the PNV Government raises in the bill, and we have reflected this in our amendments. But let us not disagree with the need for this law, which has been so hard for the Basque Nationalist Party to understand (more than three decades) and which now assumes to be peremptory. And we're happy with the change of heart. That is why we have tabled 73 amendments aimed at correcting the dysfunctions that we see in the Government's draft, to fill gaps that the law has and to remove the outlaws that emerge, in favour of efficiency in the provision of public services. And a little advice, Mr Erkoreka: don't worry so much about the outside or territorial issue, because here we are going to talk about the municipalities. We will have an opportunity, at the return of the summer, because I reiterate the commitment of this group to present the bill of historic territories at the return of the summer, and that will be the time for us to address the real reform of the country's institutional architecture. Our amendments speak of municipal autonomy, of financial sufficiency, of the co-officiality of Basque and Spanish, of transparency, of participation. And of all that we are going to debate, with broad meeting points that we are going to look for, because that is the spirit with which we work in the Socialist Party. And that's why we're going to do this, beyond initiatives designed to be queen for a day. What is striking is that, once he has succeeded in moving those who, like the PNV, have not wanted to move in more than thirty years, once he has managed that the undecided assume that this subject is more than a political claim – the case of Bildu, who abstained in the consideration in 2013 of our municipal bill – the representative of UPyD has proposed to delay the processing of this law, which until four days ago considered as urgent as we are. The reasons given in this amendment mean that they are merely excuses. And, of course, I recognize your right to present an amendment to the whole, but I think you should reflect on whether this attempt to block the debate corresponds to what citizens need to solve their problems. We have made the decision not to block this law, to make a municipal law a reality, from the broadest consensus and looking at the interests of the Basques. We're not going to do what we suffered in the last legislature. The citizens run by the new municipalities do not deserve this attitude: neither that which the PNV has had until yesterday, nor that which it intends to flag UPyD today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-07-13.u21	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was ten-fifty in the morning.
