ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I want you to know that there's a blood check, so we'll stop voting for the last time. At noon, we'll finally do it. And encourage them to give blood, of course. First point in theme list: "To discuss these causes at once, and to take up the resolution once and for all: "The Moment, introduced by José Antonio Pastor Garrido Eusia Sozialist, to the parliamentary members of the team, about the proposals of Cupo's Law to agree with. "Motion, introduced by Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPyD members, the economic concert system and the polygraph system. "Motion, Joseba Egibarre Artola Euphorus, a member of the staff of the legislature, concerning the campaign against the Economic concert." Mr. Pastor, it's your word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u1	Thank you, President. Well, to make it clear from the beginning, in case it wasn't, the socialists are firm supporters of the concert and the cup, because the system of the economic concert is part of the statutory pact and is covered by the Constitution itself, because it has been and is a useful tool to improve the quality of life of Basques and Basques, and because it constitutes a differential sign of our self-government, perfectly compatible with the collaboration of solidarity with the rest of Spain. And this position of the Basque Socialists is shared by the whole of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, as reflected in the Granada document explicitly and in the proposal for reform of the Constitution set out in the electoral programme for the general elections next 20 December. Having said that, the Socialists do not want the debate on the economic concert and the quota to remain in the state in which it has been raised in recent weeks, where confusion, misinformation and the play of self-interest at pre-electoral moments have prevailed. On the contrary, we have missed arguments, data and political heights when it comes to defending and explaining what is and what this unique instrument of our self-government represents. Because it does not protect the concert that makes scarecrows and great rhetorical statements, nor does it attempt to convert, out of pure electoral interest, what are disoriented or mistaken opinions about the amount or updating of the quota in an organized campaign against the concert, or an attack on self-government in every rule. You don't respond to unsatisfaction with disproportionateness. But, since the debate is on the table and cannot be ignored, my group wants at least that the discussion should be conducted constructively, usefully and rationally. That is the spirit with which we present the interpellation we defended on the 16th, and that is the spirit with which we bring this motion to plenary today. And I would like to welcome the fact that we have been able to reach a compromise amendment which I hope will be able to gather the support of the vast majority of this Parliament. The Basque Socialists propose that this House, which has the highest political representation of the Basque Country, formally reiterate its commitment to the economic concert as an instrument regulating tax relations between the State and the Basque Country, as established by the Statute of Gernika and as protected by the Spanish Constitution. As a framework of a unique relationship, agreed and based on the principles of fiscal and financial autonomy by the institutions of the Basque Country; coordination and collaboration with the State in tax matters, and contribution to the support of the general burdens not assumed by the Autonomous Community and to solidarity. We also call on the Basque Government and the central administration to endeavour to reach an agreement on updating the quota, because it does not help to understand this mechanism at Euskadi's disposal that the annual quotas have not been settled since 2007, with economic differences already reaching EUR 1.2 billion, more than one tenth of the total budget of the Autonomous Community. Or the fact that for the same reason it has not even begun to work on the renewal of the 2011-2016 Cup, which should set out the guidelines for calculating the annual contributions of Euskadi to the State Budgets in that five-year period; a period, in case someone has not noticed, which ends next year. Finally, we would like to urge the central and Basque governments to strive to explain at all levels the peculiarities of our funding system, in order to contribute to a better understanding and to clear prejudices and simplistic assessments about it. We think that this can be the best contribution we can make to preserving the unfocused opinion concert and solving the real problems that exist about updating the quota. And we think that around those statements we can meet and reach a compromise. If not everyone, yes to the immense political and social majority represented here in this Parliament. The Basque Socialists do not believe that the most appropriate strategy to achieve these objectives is the one used by some formation and some institutions that I do not want to point out, which consists of suffering ostentatiously from unreceived wounds and presenting themselves as the only champions of an instrument of self-government that is of all Basque society. And that is precisely why, because the concert is everyone's, it cannot be alienated as anyone's private flag. We said this in the previous debate and insisted again: the best way to defend the concert and the quota is with more work, with more consensus and with more pedagogy. As you will know, the Basque Sociometer is a survey of opinion carried out periodically by the Government to know what the citizens of Euskadi think on various issues. In the autumn of 2010, people were asked about the degree of information they had about the economic concert, and the result was that 45% of the respondents stated directly that they had not heard about the concert. That was the majority answer. 42% said they had heard of him but did not know him well. And only 9% claimed to know him well, although that would have to be contrasted. It is basically the same result that was obtained in another sociometer carried out before, in 2001, and I am sure that if we now repeat the survey the result would not vary substantially. In other words, if the citizens of the Basque Country express this lack of knowledge about what is one of the most important elements of our self-government, we cannot be surprised by the misconceptions that have been poured out recently and that some have wanted to present as an organized campaign. It seems to us that it would be much more beneficial to channel the efforts spent on rhetorical declarations of defence claim, systematic work to explain the concert and the quota, its functioning, the autonomy it grants in income and expenditure, and the unilateral risk it poses to Basque institutions. And, of course, its political significance, which goes far beyond the amount that can be paid as a quota and which in a short time or nothing will solve the structural financing problems of other autonomous communities. Clearing up these misconceptions and misconceptions also requires transparency, something that has probably been lacking in negotiating the quota. We already know that their calculation is not simple, but the quota cannot become a dark and mysterious ark that is negotiated in the dark by a few initiates, and that only occasionally comes out in the form of a kind of magic figure. That something is complex, that it is, does not imply that it is unintelligible, just as singularity is not conflicted with transparency. And we must recognize that the establishment of five-year quota laws and the liquidation of annual quotas has almost never been the result of a transparent debate based on contrasting data, but the result of negotiations that are very dependent on the political circumstances and urgency of the governments in office. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the spirit that inspires the Socialist Group and with which we have come to this debate in an attempt to achieve – and fortunately so it has been – a consensus with the other groups that avoids both immobilism and victimism, because we understand that the instruments of self-government must be used to advance in equality, social cohesion and progress of citizens, not to advance squares in processes that some call "national construction". And that is precisely why we consider that the best defense we can make of the concert system is that the competent institutions really strive to try to close the differences in the fixing of the contributions that correspond to this community. And at the same time – and it seems very important to us – explain well to the citizenry, in the Basque Country first and in the rest of Spain, what they consist of and what they mean, from the economic point of view and from the political point of view, both the concert and the quota. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u2	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u3	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. I believe that this debate should serve to tell the truth. This is a debate to tell the truth to the citizenry, which I believe is the best way to defend our work and to defend politics. In the face of so many lies and so many charades that have already begun to be said in this debate and that will follow, what we want to do is to tell the truth to people. Certainly, the system of economic concertation is contained in the Spanish Constitution, but of course it is not compatible with the contribution of solidarity with the rest of Spain, as Mr Pastor has proposed in his speech. Since always, not only in the last few weeks, there have been voices against this system, with the following two main arguments. Firstly, this is an exceptional system, which only applies in two of the seventeen Spanish Autonomous Communities. Secondly, the quota is the product of a political negotiation between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain, it is a very untransparent system, and its calculation is biased downwards, thus causing civil inequality and privileges for some citizens vis-à-vis the others. In recent weeks, in fact, different voices have been raised to criticize this system or the calculation of the quota: the secretary general of the Socialist Party, Pedro Sánchez; the socialist president of Andalusia, Susana Díaz; the leader of the Catalan socialists, Miquel Iceta; the socialist president of the Valencian Generalitat, Ximo Puig; the vice president and spokesman of the Valencian Generalitat, Monica Oltra, of Compromís, among many others. They have all criticized one way or another that system of economic concertation and the calculation of the quota, dropping or openly saying that this system and the way in which the quota is calculated represent an over-financing for the Basque and Navarro citizens compared to the other Spanish citizens. And this is not really new; a couple of years ago the former President of the People's Party of the Community of Madrid, Ignacio González, and his then Finance Advisor, strongly criticized it. Also a couple of years ago the president of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party stated on this issue that no autonomous community should be excluded from solidarity, because it is mandated by the Constitution. Also a couple of years ago the leader of the Catalan Socialists literally pointed out that, if we want fair funding, we begin by removing from the Spanish Constitution the privileges that exist today. Other Spanish political leaders and institutions have been saying similar things in recent years. In the recent past and in the distant past similar complaints were raised by other autonomous communities. Therefore, it is an increasingly questioned system, because, in the end, truth always comes to light, however much you all repeat as active and passive a good cluster of lies in relation to this matter. Therefore, it is an increasingly questionable system, of impossible defense for those who are called progressive, being UPyD the only political party that openly criticizes it in Basque, and being a servant, certainly – as I will probably remember later – the only Basque parliamentarian who questions it. When we asked in Euskadi for their review, or directly for their suppression, we were always left alone, right. However, it should be noted that on many occasions we have defended with the same arguments their revision, or directly their suppression, outside of Euskadi other parties have supported us. To give an example, during the last parliamentary term in the Madrid Assembly we defend an initiative to urge the community government to defend a new system of autonomous financing solidarity and transparency, in which the citizens of the Basque Country and Navarra contribute to national solidarity and to the support of the state as the rest of the Spaniards. And the People's Party supported UPyD's proposal. When we have presented similar initiatives in other institutions, some of them recently, the result has been similar. The truth, as I say, comes to light. That is, the statements of certain national leaders, as well as the result that these UPyD initiatives have taken elsewhere outside of Euskadi, evidences the political hypocrisy and inconsistency of the People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, unable to maintain the same discourse always and everywhere. Already in 2005 Aguirre, then a member of the National Committee of the Basque Socialist Party, on the occasion of the twenty-fifth anniversary of the economic concert, wrote an article in which he stated that "the Basque Socialists have the opportunity to promote a modification of the concert in order to make solidarity with the rest of Spain", and that "our contribution to the State does not respect the principles of equality, progressiveness and solidarity established by the Spanish Constitution", and that "the Basque Socialists", he said, wrote, "we have to ask ourselves whether we really want to exercise socialism according to the principles according to which the oldest political party in the Basque Country was founded". There are also the articles and studies carried out by different independent intellectuals, economists and technicians who know the subject. Here are the reflections made by Mikel Buesa, by Carlos Monasterio, by Ángel de la Fuente, by Javier Tajadura, by Joseba Arregi, who was nationalist adviser to the Basque Government, by José María Ruiz Soroa, by Francesc de Carreras, or by Basaguren himself, adviser to the Socialist Party for the reform of the Spanish Constitution, who did not too much define the concert system as "a privileged system of obtaining financial resources". And many others have been putting forward the same ideas, although it is certainly true that only UPyD has kept a diaphanous speech on this issue and only UPyD has defended these ideas in the Basque Parliament, breaking out of that form years of unique thinking, and doing so not to get votes, but to defend equality, solidarity and progressiveism. These are our principles, and we will continue to defend them. In this sense, it is perfectly understandable that nationalist political parties or conservative political parties defend this anachronism that shields inequality among citizens. To do so political parties that call themselves "progressive" is much stranger, and confirms that they can't really call themselves progressive. Today, anyone who defends the economic concert or the calculation of the quota cannot call himself progressive. Criticisms therefore come to denounce that we are faced with an exceptional system, applicable only to part of the national territory, which causes inequality between citizens and privileged over-financing of certain citizens compared to the rest. Euskadi and the Basques do not contribute what would be appropriate to inter-territorial solidarity, we do not take part in all the instruments that should guarantee solidarity between citizens. And this you know perfectly well. Therefore, anyone who defends positions contrary to this that I am putting forward knows perfectly well that he is lying. The system of economic concert therefore generates a huge financial asymmetry between the outlying territories and the rest of the Spanish territories, which is a flagrant violation of the principle of equality contained in different articles of the Spanish Constitution. On the other hand, if, in your opinion, supporters of the economic concert, the economic concert is so fair, so progressive, so egalitarian, if it does not effectively break equality, if it is an effective method of tax collection, if it is so positive for citizens, why is the Government of Catalonia denied, or did the Government of Catalonia at the time refuse such a system? Why is it said and explained by active and passive that the transposition of this same system into other autonomous communities, and in particular Catalonia, would make the state absolutely impossible? Why is Catalonia told that it is inviable, and yet the opposite is defended here? Some also say that "they are our rights"; however, when within a state there are rights that only some citizens enjoy are not rights, they are privileges. And this is not defocusing anything, but telling the truth. Therefore, indeed, this system generates conflicts, comparative grievances, complaints, mistrust and much controversy, and, therefore, what we propose is to change it. How? Through the instruments set out in the motion we have tabled. We therefore propose, through this motion, to urge the Basque Government to promote, first of all, a correct and transparent application of the system of economic concertation, following the constitutional principles enshrined in articles 138.2 and 139.1 of the Spanish Constitution, which speak of equality. To this end, what we propose is that the Basque quota should first be calculated correctly, transparently and in solidarity, so that the non-transferred State powers are properly valued and that, according to their true weight, Euskadi's participation is all instruments of inter-territorial solidarity. Secondly, the parameters of indirect taxes, and in particular VAT adjustments, will be reviewed with maximum transparency, so that Euskadi can obtain the resources it needs according to its actual consumption. And, on the other hand, what we propose to carry out as soon as possible, because I believe that is to go to the bottom of the issue, what we propose is that the Congress of Deputies or the Government of Spain should promote all the legal and constitutional reforms that are necessary to promote a symmetrical and supportive federal state, where this kind of absolutely anachronistic systems that cause inequality disappear. The aim, therefore, is to ensure progressiveness, equality and equity. This is what we are ultimately defending.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u4	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u5	This is what I think any progressive should defend. It's about shielding equality. And I have to say, in conclusion, that it is a real honour for me to be able to say these things in the Basque Parliament. I am very proud to uphold these principles. I am very proud to tell the truth to the citizenry, in the face of all the lies that you are going to raise in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u6	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u7	It's like talking and arguing about the Echonomic Concerto again. And in the Defense of the Concertate, after interpenetrations at the beginning, we've completed the mutations and this Chamber will be able today to give his opinion on this subject. We've been looking for an agreement, and I think, besides the signatures, at least we've agreed to a minimum of terms for our maintenance. And then we'll see what's left of all this at the time of our vote. I'd like to do it, and I'd like to put it inside time, of course, to put the subject of the Economic Concertical Concertical Concert, why it's true that what we're discussing now was the effect of something, a kind of explosion, a thunderstorm has come around the concert. And, well, the words privileges and the rest are not new either. And then I'll stick to the subject, but also to Mr. Maneiro. He has shown his pride here in the last words, and if he were to review it or to read it for the first time in 1937, that law of decree which Franco had signed himself, reasons are the same. You can see what reasons and why Franco considers them traitors and Gipusia and the Economic Concertical Concertical Concera. Clanro, of course, to bet on the Republic. But the other reasons are the same. So you can be proud, because you put yourself in front of Franco. But in the defense of the concert and its historical context, 1876 that day, July 21st, when the forum was withdrawn, it is clear that since that time there has been a different route from the Economics and Consecrations. But the forums are the ones that at that time are abolished. And it's the moment when he says what Cánovas del Castillaus said: "Cando la fuerza causa esto, la fuerza es el derecho." Below that there is a deal about the concert, an agreement between the losers and the war that had been won in that war between Cánovas del Castillo. This is why it is neither privileges nor rights, I know not what extraordinary, but that it is the remnant of the excess of those days. For Cánovas himself could not say at that time: "Well, to win the war, after three years of war, and how shall I take away the right to destroy them, the losers? After the war, with all these consequences, how can I take them away? "I don't know. Then he stops doing that. But he leaves the Economic concert alone to collect taxes. There's no auto-gorgan or political privilege. It removes it and maintains it along the road and during years. And the klaro, the forum, the forum had three main columns. And they are principally: one for a walk. We all know what it means: "Se obedece pero no se cumple." The second was a military exception and the other was an exception. And this is what we're talking about. So we can see how the concert and the conviction have been since 1878, in case, between 79 and 80, in the Araban and Navarro. And from 37 to 1937, so far as 80, there hasn't been Biscay and Gipu. And that has a political reading. I used to refer to the July 37 Decree Law, Mr. Maneiro. You can review, read the motivation, the preamble to the decree law that signed here, in Burgos, in July of 37, Francisco Franco, and you will be identified in the motivation: "Notorious privilege", "aggravation for the other regions", how it has been answered or corresponded to the exceptional generosity with the betrayal (therefore the traitorous provinces)... The motivation is the same. Orduan, don't I make a difference? Where's the difference? In that at this moment the economic concert is associated with self-government. Unlike Mr Cánovas' initial period, of course, there is now no such difference or deficit that the economic concert was not associated with self-government. But of course, this adjustment also needs new agreements, lest it happen as the President of the Government said yesterday, that "I do not see it right now to talk about the economic concert and the convention." "Right now." And in others, yes? And therefore when we have said that the Economic Concerning of Concerning, is necessary from the hand of the Cappo, which is inseparable, and also that he ought to have the Representation necessary in the Institutions of Europe, it is necessary for the Basque Institutions, the Ecophinians, that is to say, the Representatives of the peoples that are really Soveraigns. And the concert has that deficiency. It has something to do with it. And that's why we think that some people here will have to make pedagogia, each in his own house. Why didn't we write the statement or descriptions that came from Andalucia? Or some from Catalonia, like River, who said Ciudadnos. Or other institutional representatives have been told. We didn't write them. We must therefore make pedagogia at home, or at home, or in company with the nearest ones. We have here a resolution of this legislature. We made an attempt. As we have mentioned, we have kept them in two points. On the one hand, we confirm the Basque Institutions; in this case, the Relations between the Basque Country and the State, and the Ecomnomical Concertical Concert, as a whole. And it's mentioned what the Economic Concertical Concert is. It's a one-sided risk system. It's an instrument that has a direct connection with the auto-pilot. And also with the degree of well-being in this society. And so, in front of the attacks, what we're asking is that we give the show and our word together with the voters that have to respond to the attacks against the Economic Concert. We also know that some of the subjects of the Economic concert will want to be politically used. And when he shows himself here in another political context, the subject of Catalonia, and the financing of autonomous associations, he also sends a message to the Basques, saying: "Listen, you take care of that treasure you have in your hands, and not go into other debates, because, if you go into it, you'll be so fond of it, and you'll be able to doubt the Economic concert that is so fond of you." And "at this moment," they are duen bezala batek, so, just as at other times and in another context someone may have the temptation to attack the economic concert and the Navarro convention directly. Therefore, let us not be tempted to apply that of "don't risk in politics, neither much nor little, lest you lose what you have", that is the underlying message that is being transmitted: Don't risk, lest you lose what you have. And I believe that this is a genuine political blackmail that this House, this Parliament, must unanimously reject. Because we are not talking about any privileges; we are talking about historical rights of the outside territories. And if anyone has any other doubts, about the context of how Cánovas redesigned all this, after having won in the Carlist War, also the Spanish Constitution itself has a derogation that people forget: the second derogation, which speaks of the repeal of the abolition laws of 1839 and 1876. Therefore, if an abolitionary law is repealed, it is supposed – it is supposed – that, even in time and space, with the distance that means, we are placed in another scenario. That's why...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u8	Finish up, Mr. Egibar.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u9	...in defense of the concert, about that text on the table, we'd like the dynamoths not possible, we know, but we know how to get the support of the majority of this Chamber. We hope and if it's the result of the debate, it's better for the concert.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u10	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u11	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Maneiro, I'm very proud that you can come down here and say whatever you want, and I won't even consider it an attack on the economic concert. There have always been people against the economic concert and there will always be people against the economic concert. Another thing is that you don't know what the economic concert is, and another thing is that you have no idea how the autonomous system works in Spain. That he has no idea that for almost seventeen years all autonomous communities have had fiscal powers, for example in the IRPF. That no citizen pays the same IRPF in any autonomous community in Spain. None. Not to mention the municipal taxes. Another thing is that you don't know anything, and come here and make a speech against the economic concert... Listen, all right, everyone can make whatever speech they want, but at least a little bit of rigor. Is it a beneficial system? Yeah. It is beneficial when we grow more than the rest of Spain, because, as the quota is what it is, if we have more income it is beneficial. And it is harmful if we grow less than the rest of Spain, because, as untransferred skills increase, our quota increases, and our income is lower. I don't know if you understand, but, well, I'll try to explain how many times I need to. And it is a system based on the loyalty, institutional loyalty and loyalty of the territories with the central government, which is something that those of this bench are permanently, permanently forgotten. And I'm not gonna tell you much more. Simply say that you are not the only one who in this House has spoken against the economic concert, because the predecessors of these gentlemen have spent twenty years, contrary to you, saying that neither did they want it. And here we have had several debates of these. But since Mr. Egibar was talking a little bit about history, I think it's best to make a little bit of history. And the agreement of the first economic concert was not an agreement between winners and losers, Mr Egibar. No! No! Or what? That the liberals who were in those outlaws were defeated? Or were they winners? Ah! Ah! Let's see, then it was a deal... It was not an agreement between winners and losers, it was an agreement between Basques with the Government of Spain. The Basques who were there (which, by the way, until thirty years after his trip to Barcelona did not appear Mr Sabino Arana posing other things), that is, among the Basques who were there, who were by the way as winners as the liberals against the Carlists, in that III Carlist War, which was not for the outside, was to change a king in Spain, eh! I say to make things clear, because sometimes we seem to reinvent the history of this country. And you tell us, "Today's difference from the economic concert with that..." Well, the difference today with that and that first extension... Because the economic concert ended after the deadline, and there were the three deputies general to ask the Government of Spain to extend, and they got the extension, and from there those extensions were improving, and they continued more or less until today, with the lapse of the Franco period in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, as you have pointed out before. And the difference today, what is it? Well, we signed a transactional, but what's the difference today? The difference today, Mr. Egibar, when you say that the Constitution repeals the abolitionary law... Yes! Yes, and the difference today is that the economic concert is covered by the Spanish Constitution and develops, like historical rights, in the Statute of Autonomy, which is what the Constitution says. That's the difference between a hundred and fifty years ago and today. That's the difference! What I don't understand is why you now strive not to recognize it. And, of course, they have not explicitly wanted to put it in the amendment we have signed, but that is so. That's right. And when we're talking about what we're talking about, and the risks and the non-risks, man, we have to do a little memory. We're not going back to a hundred and fifty years, we're going to go to the last twenty to see what happened in this country with the economic concert. And then we have to go, for example, to Law 38/1997, Mr Aznar's first government. And that law reformes the economic concert in a substantial way. So substantial, so substantial that it exceeds the Statute of Autonomy itself, as you well know, and that some treatyrs call it the second concert or the new concert. Because in the Statute of Autonomy there were provisions prohibiting excise duties, especially those on alcohol, and you know it, and yet it was done. That is to say, here when we talk about the curtailment of the powers of the Statute of Autonomy in some subjects, it seems that it is forgotten that in others (for example in this matter, in the prosecutor's office, in that of income) since the year 97 was exceeded what the Statute of Autonomy established to conclude. And then we have another important milestone, and you pointed it out earlier, the famous Ecofin, right? The economic concert expired on 31 December 2001. The economic concert was over. There was an agreement to renew and improve it between the deputies and the Government of Spain, and the Basque Government of Mr Ibarretxe torpedoed that agreement and left the three deputies-general in Madrid behind so that it would not be signed (two of them from the Basque Nationalist Party, I think). He left them lying there, because, if it wasn't recognized at that concert that the Basque government had to be in the Ecofin and, apparently, the Spanish government had to leave, because, of course, one of two... And on top of that a government with zero fiscal capacity. Zero, because, as you said very well, it is from the historical territories. And then the extension of the current concert was proposed. Look, I have seen no greater attack on the economic concert than voting against, as did the Basque Nationalist Party in the Congress of Deputies, to the extension of the economic concert. I haven't seen anything like it. Nothing like that. And who approved the extension? And why did the economic concert continue? Because the People's Party approved it. And we're on. New economic concert, two months later, obviously without the Ecofin. Now it could be signed. But, of course, as we were at the time of the plan, and the important thing was the important thing, and the important thing was to say that the economic concert was taken away from us, and the important thing was those other things, in that plan the word economic concert does not exist. There is no such thing, Mr. Egibar. Mr Ibarretxe's plan charged the economic concert; it no longer existed, it no longer existed. Yeah, yeah. That was it. And later we have had – and it is very recent, because it has been only a year ago – Law 7/2014, of 21 April, amending the concert... Listen, you had to make a monument to Mr Montoro, if you really are such an advocate of the economic concert, because the one who made the extension of the economic concert, the one who made the renewal declaring the validity without time, and the one who made the last reform, still concluding new excise duties that had been created in Spain... If you really are for the work of defending the economic concert as it is and as it stands, I place you to make a monument to Mr Cristobal Montoro, because I don't know anyone who has done more for the economic concert in the last twenty years. And as for the quota, it is clear that the problems we have come from that time too, because someone had the brilliant idea of making an amendment to the quota law, and that amendment led to the Basque Country claiming money from the Spanish Government for the competences we already have. This is quite a clash with the system of the economic concert, because our competences are financed by us. We with the Cup pay the ones we don't have. So how is it possible that someone had that brilliant idea? And that is what has led to the failure of the liquidations since 2007 – and here the Socialist Party is very guilty. And I say that you have a lot of guilt because you passed it, that quota law, and because you have been in both governments at once, because you have been in the Basque Government and in the Government of Spain. And that Law of the Cup that you passed, with Mr Ibarretxe and the Basque Nationalist Party, gave rise to those discrepancies that still exist today, and when you were in both places you did not fix it. And we do understand that we must also talk about these things and explain them well, because we do believe in the system and the unilateral risk. Yes! And sometimes we get hurt, yeah, and we'll have to adjust, like everybody else, but we do believe in the system. And as I see I'm running out of time, well, then I'll tell you a few more things, but I think that, if we really all agree to defend the system of the economic concert, I'll tell you... You said, "The president of the government said..." Listen, look, when all the parties that are here, except ours, propose a reform of the Constitution, which is the one that supports the economic concert, including you, it is clear that if the melon is opened everyone will be able to make their proposals. And what comes out of there is what those who have to do decide.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u12	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Urruzuno, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u13	Good morning, everyone. Our first words and warmest embrace for the manager of a newspaper, who has been in custody for seven and a half years of Spanish injustice, Spanish vengeance. Welcome, Javier Salut too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u14	Urruzuno, gaiara, medez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u15	Less than one in the Spanish dungeons and one more here, we'll open up in the Basque Country without hesitation...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u16	Would you like me to take your word out? Uruzuno, please, on the subject.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u17	...to push the deconnectation process. The Determination process is starting with Spain in Catalonia. Face-to-face, they decided to act from state to state in Catalonia. Here we continue in the vortex of complaints which are still sent from the scurryer to the main home, and are also witnesses of the discussion of the present day. And the worst part is that no one in the main hall gets a phone. Our position, therefore, depends on the course to which it is to be directed from the defence of what we have to do. Desde la defensa del concierto, nirenuncia a la plena. Es es el mensatina que EH quire transmitir en el de hoy. Because it's our right, because it's an attack against the right of regulating our economic and social activity, we'll be able to stand firm on the defensive for the concert and the Word of Navarre, as in all the attacks made on the Basque Country, considering that this is the Εmperor. Indeed, some of those who appear today as defenders are the main enemies of the Statute, and therefore of the concert, the main ones responsible for not making the promised effect, for not complying with what assists us and, with full probability, that tomorrow they will continue to do the same, as they have done for thirty-five years of government by Felipe González, José María Aznar, Rodríguez Zapatero and Mariano Rajoy. I repeat, the main ones responsible for an aggravation that is already going on for thirty-five years. An aggravation, for more inri, with the date of celebration of October 25th. Unfortunately, they have something to celebrate. For in our discussion about the concert on the table, we don't mean perception, we're talking about political projects, and around this there are also two projects clearly visible. One of those who see us as the links which bind us to Spain, and the other of those who see our instruments as the starting-point of the state of euscal. That's why they celebrate their political project because they see it satisfied at the moment. It is not so much perceptions, but political projects. It can be understood that the concert, the Statute, the self-government, as Andoni Ortuzar came to say this Sunday, as a welding point that unites us to Spain, or as a starting point towards the construction of a Basque state. Euskal Herria Bildu is in the second option. It would be interesting to clarify where each is located, whether at the arrival station or at the departure station. And that, in our opinion, is the fundamental discussion. And in this fundamental discussion, it is essential to ask the people, to stay where we are, or to decide between independence. Last Friday in the plune, we used to say in the president's interpelation: the question is not at present in the will of the Government of Madrid, nor is it in the will of the Government at the moment. The problem is that the autonomy system of state is hitting the ceiling, politically and economically failed model. The Spanish state is in the regression phase. There's no more symmetry, no more transfers, no more pecinatings and it's over. And still more would we say: what is given is at the moment when it is time to take away the little it has been granted for years, the Spanish State is at this moment. Thus they have understood in Catalonia, and there is the germ of all that is going on. The germ of what takes place in Catalonia is the result of the attacks of generation to years and years. Therefore, Euskal Herria Bildu defends the concert yes, but not the defensive. We can't stay where they don't take what we have. The state has been taking the action for a long time. The attack, the attack on what we already have, is the most effective way for us not to move forward. And that's where we're at. We understand that the PNV is comfortable with this debate in terms of matrix-branch. In Euskal Herria Bildu we put it in terms of how we stop being a branch, and make use of all the resources at our disposal. The means, not only to determine the relation we are to the State, not only to determine the relation to the State, but to determine how we improve the welfare of the citizens, to increase social expense, to improve public services. The concert is not a privilege, it offers its advantages, the income offers a chance of receiving us on our own, but, as we said last Friday, it has its weaknesses and its undeveloped differences. And the most remarkable weakness or weakness in all is the uniform use of the state. Although he is born from various sects, which are repeated again and again, by compact, that he is produced by compact, as the state has shown us in the course of 35 years, he makes uniform use of his interests, and of the interests of the State. Therefore it is also a burden; it is also a burden. For the 2016 budgets, about $1,500 million, the amount of the coup to be paid by the state. As an example, from this point of view, to place an 69 ERAINDAINDABIL and the Ministry of the Interior. We believe that this country has a certain number of unsatisfied aspects at the moment when we are about to devote ourselves to it. In order to ensure the incomes, additional support for the rent and the housing may be tripled with that amount. We can also triple the pharmaceutical resources, add our income to 25% of the health budget. So our priority is to answer that. Our first priority is to guarantee a decent and well-being for all our citizens. We proclaim that the institutions of this country have the right of regulating and managing the whole economic property, the economic, social, and the public prosecutor. Meanwhile, as long as we do not succeed in complete independence, we have at least that sort of argument which we wish to make here today, at least if we have a few decisions to go and take. We're in the budget, and we believe that they also offer an excellent occasion for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u18	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Passing on the answers, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u19	Thank you, President. Well, starting with Mr. Maneiro, who has released here a series of adjectives (false, liar, patron...), as I had only spoken, I understand that they were addressed to me, because no one had spoken until that moment. And I'm certainly not going to admit those appeals, am I? Because you also think you confuse, and I think you should make it look at, equality with uniformity. They're two absolutely different things. It is possible to maintain equality in the basic rights of citizens without being absolutely uniform, because there are singularities (although you do not want to recognize it, they exist), and that is not incompatible with equal rights. And if there have been statements by presidents of autonomous communities and political leaders of the party of some communities, it is for a very specific issue: because they are in a situation of great financial scarcity in their communities, and they are trying to find a solution that is not such a solution. Because I'm going to tell you one thing: even if the Basque quota was twice as much, twice as much as it is right now, that doesn't solve the problem of financing the rest of the Spanish autonomous communities. Other measures, such as fiscal equality with Europe, would provide the necessary income. I, in any case, would like to remain as positive as it turns out that today we will be able to get out of here with a vote, at least nominal, informal, in support of the concert. And I say nominal and informal because, hearing the statements of some members of this House, it does not seem to be really sincere. In the amendment that we have agreed on at least the signatories we share the defense of the economic concert, but listening to the words of someone, it does not seem that that is at least the same way. And I think we have to do politics with the instruments of self-government that we have, but what I don't think is that this is something that serves to make theology, build myths and legends, sovereignist legends, taking advantage of those instruments. Let us not turn by the art of magic into holy grail what is an instrument of financial relationship with the State. Because the concert and the cup are important to Euskadi for several reasons; among them, because most Basques, the vast majority, consider them to be useful instruments for their life. And because, over time, the concert has become an element of great political significance that singularizes, that puts the march to our self-government, and with which the Basque society is identified. And, beyond the myth – that goes for you, Mr Egibar – it must be emphasized that the fundamental step to consolidate it, which in 1878 was a transitional formula of insertion, was said, in the Spanish economic concert – you see in the literature – is produced with the Statute and with the Spanish Constitution. There is the fundamental step, because it is these two elements, the Statute and the Constitution, that give the concert the rank of permanent law and normative and collecting capacity, which never before had to this extent the historical territories, among other things because the tax system has developed very much since then. Therefore, it is good that we talk about realities, not mythical constructions. And you, Mr Urruzuno, honestly, I think that you have had the wrong debate. I think he's in a hurry. I suppose that this of the Catalan nationalists has been thrown into the madness, and, as you have already made a request for a full monograph to talk about the right to decide, because perhaps this speech, a little out of tone and place, would correspond then and not now. But, come on, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, talking a little bit about the concert, we slide our sovereignist doctrine. Of course, you will not be able to accuse us of lack of clarity in our proposal or in our model. We defend self-government and its deepening; we do not defend or we will defend, nor will we support, nor will we follow any policy that proposes a break with the rest of Spain. So there's no doubt, if there was any. And you have the legitimacy to claim it, and we will recognize you that we have at least the same as you to say that it seems to us crazy and that it goes against the interests of all Basques. Therefore, when that debate, which was not this, comes, we will discuss it with the depth that needs to be established. And today I would like us to get out of here at least with the conviction, most of us here, that today we have put a little stone on the wall supporting the concert that I think we need to get. And it is not only that everyone does in his house what he should, that also, and God in that of all. It is that the Basque Government and the PNV will have to do something too! Or is it not important that the Basque Government, the parliaments, the municipalities, the political parties, too, should do this task of pedagogy? Also inside, also within the Basque Country, because some gentlemen do not understand it exactly as it is, but as they wish it to be. Therefore, let us take advantage of today's day, let us take out what is positive that an immense majority of the parliamentarians represented here will make an express statement of support for the concert, so that this is an element that will help us build a future horizon, which for us is that of improving the living conditions of the Basques, and not others.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u20	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u21	Yes, thank you, President. It's funny to me that you have to do pedagogy. "We have to do pedagogy" sounds to me that what is intended is that we have to defend one's thinking and that it is better not to talk about it. And that it is preferable to say to their representatives outside of Euskadi, in this case to those of the People's Party and the Socialist Party, "Hey, don't talk about the matter, don't disagree", it won't be that you know what's on the table. I believe this is the pedagogy that you defend. And certainly, with the presence you have in the media, I believe that there should be no problem for you to present your arguments in relation to the defense of the economic concert, beyond saying that it is based on historical rights and that it is included in the Spanish Constitution, which we already know. But you have the opportunity, even through articles of opinion, to put forward the arguments as to whether this system is indeed equal and is in solidarity with the rest of Spanish citizens. Is it solidarity with the rest of Spanish citizens? No, it's not. Is equality broken as a result of this system being applied only to two autonomous communities? Indeed. And you know it perfectly well. So, that's what you have to try to argue, if you can, but it seems not. A few days ago a newspaper conducted a study and analysis of the economic concert, and there all of you and your bosses had the opportunity to explain your position on this issue. It's very interesting what Mr. Ortuzar said. He said: "I could include here a long argument to show that we pay what we owe and more, that we are supportive, that our finances do not result in damage to third parties." I could do it, but it doesn't stop. It does not include a single argument in this text that was published in a media outlet. They all said basically the same thing (Vasco Nationalist Party, Bildu, Basque Socialist Party and People's Party), all behind the unique thought and in defense of the economic concert. Even we can, also in favour of the establishment, in favour of nothing changing, in favour of leaving things as they are, in favour of maintaining certain privileges that certain citizens may enjoy vis-à-vis the rest of the citizens. Because when there are rights, supposed, that can be enjoyed by citizens but other citizens of the same country cannot be enjoyed, these are not rights, these are privileges. And you know it perfectly well. Mr. Damborenea always tells me basically the same thing: "You don't know anything." Neither Mr. Mikel Buesa, Javier Tajadura, Joseba Arregi, Francesc de Carreras, Carlos Monasterio, Ángel de la Fuente, Ruiz Soroa, López Basaguren, Ignacio Zubiri, nor all their leaders who are doing politics outside of Euskadi are aware of anything. No one knows anything about this issue, no one understands anything. Let's see, for example, what was said ten days ago by the professor of Finance Ignacio Zubiri in relation to this system, when they asked him "Is what Euskadi pays for a quota in standstill?" The theoretical quota has elements of solidarity; in practice, however, this is partially diminished, because some components of the system are mismeasured and tend to favor Euskadi. In any case, even the theoretical quota would result in a much smaller contribution to other autonomous communities than the rich communities of common system." –"Would the concert formula extend to other communities?". "GENERALIZING THE FORAL SYSTEM is impossible," said Ignacio Zubiri, "poor communities would lose a lot of resources. Even limiting it to Catalonia would be impossible politically and economically." What did Angel of the Source say? The same is true: "The problem is that the quota is substantially lower than it should be, even by applying the criteria laid down by the Law on Economic Concert itself." –"Would the concert formula extend to other communities?". –"If the quota were well calculated the formula would in principle be generalizable, although it would leave us with a very rare state, which could not collect taxes anywhere in its territory." All of this said. And Angel de la Fuente also said that "we all feel unique, and surely we are, indeed, but that gives us no more rights than other citizens." And Mr López Basaguren himself, who defined this system as a privileged system for obtaining financial resources, said ten days ago this gentleman, who knows very well and who seems to be advising you on constitutional reform, said that "Euskadi contributes to the Interterritorial Compensation Fund, which in the Constitution seemed to be called the Interterritorial Equalization Fund, but that fund has remained almost residual. Interterritorial levelling or solidarity is materialized through other funds to which the Basque Country and Navarre do not contribute." Clearer, therefore, water. And he added: "The concert does not exist in any federal country, and extending it to Catalonia (if we extended it, which is impossible) would blow up the system." But, of course for you, all these people don't know anything at all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u22	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u23	It's about, in short... Yeah, I'm done. It is that these are important things, and in the end time has been reduced, which I understand, but in the end, what I intend to do is make arguments. Our aim is to defend solidarity and equality. It is not a matter of attacking anything in particular, but of defending equality and solidarity, for which, of course, all necessary legal reforms must be promoted, including the reform of the Spanish Constitution. This is what I think should be done. And the most important thing in politics and the best way to regenerate politics and democracy itself is to tell the truth, and say the same things in the Basque Parliament and in the Madrid Assembly, in Murcia or Catalonia. Say the same thing to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u24	Thank you, Mr. Maniro...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u25	We do it without fear or trembling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u26	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u27	Pity of lack of time, which has not allowed him to make that allusion or answer about Francisco Franco and the motivation of his decree law, because the motivation is the same. The same. Mr Damborenea, when we were talking about 1876 and we were talking about winners and losers, obviously the Basque bet for the Carlists was not a situation or a dynastic dispute, the one that was being played here, but who was going to defend in a better way or who guaranteed the validity of the outsiders. For at that time also, as in other times it is also given, there always existed the figure of the good ones and, of course, also of the good Basques, as in all times. And what happens at that time is that what can actually be the economic aspect of the economic concert is maintained, but all political content is sacrificed. So that's the difference when we talk about that at this point in time self-government is associated with the economic concert, or the economic concert with self-government. For this reason also it was said in its own time: "There are good forts, also good Basques," but at last what does Economics Concern satisfy at that time? Well, this town had economic elites. It satisfys them, because a kind of political character is rejected and that's what's happened in all the past decades. Now it's changed... So it was said, "Well, let's look for the update formulas," and I believe that in a previous debate it also recognized what those signs of fragility can be that it is proving to have the concert, because, in that bilaterality scheme, it does not have the necessary or precise guarantees. Because, of course, there is an evolution, and if there is a new imposition, new taxes, you actually have to adapt and the agreement between the two institutions has to be entered into in a concerted way, but what happens when the state does not want to? Because the concert does lack a mechanism that forces it to negotiate, in this case with the Basque Country, or with Navarra in the case of the economic agreement, and adapt all the circumstances from the conception of a complete concert. That is why, when we also talk about the direct presence in Ecofin, we are talking about the same thing. And there has not been a single vote, a single participation of the Basque Nationalist Party that has gone in a contrary direction or questioning the economic concert or the Navarro agreement. And experience shows that with all the agreements reached by the historical territories and also by the Basque Government with the Spanish Government, the Navarra institutions or the Navarra institution, the Navarra Government, have automatically come behind and the same agreement has been reached. We are therefore at the forefront of the responsibility for adapting the figure of the economic concert. But I confess that there are privations. That's why we're asking for a coupa deal. That this committee must collect as soon as possible, and say it's no good to say that we have no deal since 2007. Why isn't the committee assembled for a decision? Why? Because the Spanish Government says what Mariano Rajoy says: "En estos momentos no vamos a cupationar esto." Peero en eros momentos quizás sí! "Y hay que sacar de insecuridad al conciero economico, y eso sastión de voluntad pollica." And he's made mistakes in his exhibition. I'm going to quote one, because, of course, you also have a story in which it seems that the Basque Nationalist Party does, undoes, breaks... He cited the fact that what this House approved on 30 December 2004, the new political status, you quoting Ibarretxe, says that the figure of the economic concert was charged! If it is the cornerstone of the new political status! They haven't read it to you! I mean, what they voted not to, didn't they even read it? For you read, you read article 55, where relations are established between the Basque institutions and the Government or State institutions (the Basque Government and the Spanish Government), and you will see how it is reflected in the centre of political gravity of the political status, is the economic concert. And there is talk and mention of the need for a joint commission between the institutions. No, no; for the economic concert and, of course, for the quota Well, I too have to congratulate myself on the agreement, or because we have signed at least one text, let's say, of base camp, but which I unequivocally understand that all political formations or groups are going to defend. And I hope that in the coming months or times this which we have subscribed to at least three (we will see how the vote is shaped) will also be an effective defence mechanism for the economic concert on the part of everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u28	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u29	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Maneiro, it's just that you confuse everything. It confuses rights, obligations... Right to pay taxes and to receive services, not who charges you! What else does it give you to cover the city council, the parliament, the autonomous community, the state or Brussels? The right to see who's charging me? And, of all those gentlemen you quote, some have some reason, and others none. And I have already told you that the quota is wrong today, and I have told you why, and I have said it in my first intervention: because there was a change in the last quota rule, which these foreign lords put to those gentlemen there, and we abstained. We abstained, because it broke the criteria of the economic concert. And what's happened has happened. And, Mr. Pastor, one thing I have forgotten: I agree with you when you tell Mr. Maneiro to confuse equality with uniformity. Please withdraw the LTH project that you have proposed, because you are doing exactly the same thing. Sure, sure! They do exactly the same with the economic concert, that everything has to be the same. And if harmonization is that everything has to be the same, by that rule of three we avoid the economic concert, and that everything is the same throughout Spain. If that's the sense of harmonization... Nor do you confuse equality with uniformity or harmonization with uniformity. And, Mr Egibar, look, you tell me what happens if the Spanish Government does not want to agree. And what if the Basque Government does not want to do so, as happened in the renewal of the economic concert? Sure, what's going on? So the economic concert disappears? And then, if the Government of Spain says, "For I extend it," and the economic concert does not disappear, do they put it to birth, vote against, unilaterality... Is that what you're talking about? The mess of the quota we have. Who said, "Well, I'll take it off because I do"? Who started that story? Because I remember that vice-lehendakari saying, "We take it out because we do," and the minister of those saying, "Now I'll take it out of here." And to this day. This whole... Of course, when two have to agree, why do you part of the base that it is always one that opposes? Listen, as far as I've seen, when he's ruled the PP there's been no problem, and I've told him the story, I've told him the story. And you say, "Man, if new excise duties are created, we'll have to agree on them." Well, it depends, because the Autonomy Statute keeps saying no. But, of course, as we all agree, truth, is done and nothing happens, and because it's also logical, because there are things in the Statute that were done... That I don't know why they were made. You always know everything, but up to there I'm missing some things from why they were done, and obviously you have to correct them. That could be one that needs to be corrected, for example. You tell me that the Ibarretxe plan contemplated the economic concert! Please, the Ibarretxe Plan... Tell me an article of the Ibarretxe Plan that quoted the words economic concert. [[Berber]] The joint committee tells me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u30	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u31	The joint commission was set up in the event that there was an agreement to pay the quota. Yes, yes! Yes, yes, Mr. Ibarretxe. Don't you think? No, no, I did, because I did look at it, and I also compared it with the Catalan Statute project and the concert we had, and I saw perfectly the differences that existed between some, others and others there, and the jets that were some more there in the approach they were doing, which is not that of the concert precisely. Look, I think it is very clear that the economic concert will go very well, first of all, if the Basque Nationalist Party stops making a misappropriation of the subject and sells it as its own, because obviously what it generates in the rest of Spain is anti-economic concert. I don't know if they're conscious, but, well, that happens. It's pretty normal. And I will tell you that the economic concert will go well, as it has done well, if the People's Party and Mariano Rajoy continue to be presidents of the Government of Spain, because, otherwise, all those who are saying that we have to change the Constitution, but no one says how... For the melon will be opened, and those who want to open it, if they have vows, will know how they close it, but do not blame us on others. I, if you are so in favour of the economic concert, recommend one thing: vote for the People's Party in two months' time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u32	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. And finally, Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u33	What I intended to say, Mr Pastor, is that at least it is shocking your position, no longer with regard to the unity of Spain (in that quiet, which I have no doubt at all); what creates more doubt is when you place the concert, the self-government, the Statute..., once you have seen what you have done during these thirty-five years, you place it in terms of solidarity, public services, social spending, solidarity with Spain. And I would say to him: What has the government of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party allocated to those 730-750 euros per person we pay Basques and Basques as a quota to the State? Because what I see is, for example: 2010, September, Rodriguez Zapatero, labor reform, employer's award, worker's stick; 2011, July, Rodriguez Zapatero, pension reform, more pensioner's stick, and then already the sumun, 2011, August, Rodriguez Zapatero, express reform of the Constitution (first Angela Merkel and the banks, and then already, if that, all the others). So, what's that about solidarity, social spending, public services? And then the right-wing gentlemen come to the Government of Spain and often chollo, they find that all the work has already been done by the left-wing party, and they have nothing left but to push in that same direction. And that is what you want to hide in these debates. So less demagogy, let's stop solidarity, social spending, public services, and let's point out the debate as far as it goes. What we're trying to say is that the state has always understood the relationship to the Basque People in a subordination scheme, and that this business of the concert is also in the same terms. We don't want to have a relationship with the subject, but we won't tolerate any attacks against the remaining powers. There is only one way to overcome this subordination: to reach country agreements, to know the will of the citizenry, and to that extent to implement initiatives to enforce that majority will. But for that to happen, the agreements must be between those who recognize this people. Rosa Parks decía "Cuanto más obedecimos, peor nos colaron." And we think something like that is happening to us. So it's not possible to advance with those who don't support this town. And today, paradoxically, there seems to be an expression here for the concert, especially for the automatically, with those who have attacked that state. And that's not acceptable to us right now. We, as has been said before, have no one but our neighbours with Spain, who will work to free off all points of military service, and we will try to free all the military points. And we fixed three points in our correction, three points. First defense of the concert. Second, we proposed an instrument to make this defense more effective. And thirdly, we cried out to the independence of this people. Because at this moment we believe that in this important context of our lives, this political context, historical incluso, in this country, as Catalonia has done, we are at the time of departure for its own failure, and it was essential for us to come to the discussion of this day. So today our vote will be in the defense of the concert, but the part of independence, because the way of independence is denied, as it hides, so today our vote will be of abscesssion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u34	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. You'll forgive me for hitting the doorbell, but the vote will be at last. Second point on the subject list: "The Moment, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Basque Group, Antonio Damborenea, by the law of the Confederations. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Damborena, it's yours to introduce and get rid of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. I don't want to go too far at this point, because it seems to me to be a rather obvious subject. We're running late... We just spoke a moment ago about the economic concert and the Law of the Cup, and now it is time to talk about the Law of Contributions, which is the distribution between Basque institutions of that money that is collected from all Basques. We've been running a five-year delay, as I said. There was an attempt not long ago, by the former deputy general of Álava, to introduce a reform of that Law on Contributions, with little success. All the parliaments – and I say all the parliaments – say that it is urgent to reach an agreement. And, to quote just a few, I will say that Mr Bizkaia's deputy general on the day of his inauguration said that it was one of the priorities of the Bizkaia Foreign Ministry to come to that law of contributions. It is true that after meeting with the lehendakari he said that this new law will be delayed until 2017, at least. We have seen statements, we have heard statements by the new deputy general of Álava asking for a new contribution law, and basically in the same sense as the previous deputy general of Álava, because it says that Álava gets hurt by that contribution law as it works. And we have seen statements by the deputy general of Gipuzkoa, who also says the same thing. And curiously none of the three points out that we have to wait for an agreement to be reached with the Law of the Cup, because it is obvious that there is no need. That's the only excuse Mr. Counselor gave us the other day to say that we still didn't have to bring in or work on a new contribution law. So, what we're saying is that it's all right, it's all right, because it's not even a game issue anymore. There have been different parties governing the three outside institutions in the last four years; listen, today you are at four. Four o'clock. Before, it could be argued that it was very difficult to agree. It seems that it will be easier for the Basque Nationalist Party to agree with itself, and it will be able to arrive at this House, obviously in compliance with the procedures laid down in the Statute and the LTH, than, finally, we can have and we can discuss in this House a new law of contributions that regulates and sets out what those contributions really are, how these contributions really should be, and how the system for the Basque Government is made more fair, but also for the parliaments and the municipalities. I'm not gonna say... That the other day the counselor told me that we were proposing one thing or another. We no longer propose anything. We're not anywhere. When we were, we proposed. We weren't even paid attention, okay. Well, now that you're here, propose something. And, of course, don't apologize... in short, a very cheap excuse is to say that we have to wait for the law of the quota. Of course, the law of the quota is also a matter of two. As Mr. Egibar said, "And if the Government of Spain doesn't want..." Hey, what if the Basque government doesn't want to? What if they don't meet because the Basque government doesn't want to? And how long are we gonna be like this? I think we are talking about an internal issue, which is obvious to everyone that nothing has to do with the quota law with the contribution law. And nothing is nothing, because the contributions are after deducting the quota, whatever it is. Whatever it is. And what needs to be done is to establish a more just system, and not a system like the one that was established, that started creating a solidarity fund because I already knew it was unfair from the minute one. And, therefore, what we are asking of the government is that within at least three months you should be able to agree with yourself, and bring us a bill to this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u36	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u37	Yes, thank you, President. In particular, on 21 February 2014, we asked Councillor Gatzagaetxebarria about this issue, in relation to the current system for the distribution of money flows between the various Basque institutions established by the current Law on Contributions, and about the need to update this law and present it to this Parliament as soon as possible. More than a year ago, in March 2014, and, in fact, we still do not have this contribution law. And it gives me the feeling that the government, the Basque Finance Council, is not going to present that contribution law in this Parliament, because it believes that there may not be a sufficient majority in this Parliament to carry it forward. But, in any case, we will see the arguments of the Basque Nationalist Party on this issue. The counselor in that inquiry told us: "We cannot bring the input laws to the House on our own initiative. Firstly, there must be a majority agreement at the Basque Finance Council. Nor does the House have that capacity for legal initiative: it has to wait for the Basque Finance Council to reach an agreement and then this law is dealt with here by a special procedure"... And he said, "We have to get absolute majority among the institutions, and we are four institutions of three different political colors." This was said in March 2014, but things have certainly changed and the Basque Nationalist Party controls all institutions. Therefore, there should be no problem of any kind for such a contribution law to be introduced as soon as possible. But he also added that it would not be a very verifiable agreement (it said "ziurtagarria") if we in the House see that we do not have a majority to approve it, and that too must be taken into account. In other words, this contribution law may not be presented in this case because the Government considers that there is not a sufficient majority to carry it forward. He also said that "The four institutions we have begun to analyze the consequences and influences of the Act on Contributions during the previous five years; we are analyzing it," he said a year and a half ago. He pointed out a number of criteria for defending the drafting of this law. "It demands us," he said, "a deep job, and in that we are working, and on that path we must continue." But the months have passed, and indeed the Government has not presented anything. Just a few days earlier it had been possible to close an agreement in the council between the three outlaws and the Basque Government to close the fiscal year 2013 and to fix definitively the contributions of the deputies to the Basque Government's coffers under the Act on Contributions. The agreement, you will recall, took place after a long controversy and under a last-minute agreement that solved the imbalance generated in the distribution of revenues collected in 2013 by the updating of balances, and that, by the way, put on the table that this Law of Contributions is very improveable, and that it possibly contains technical inaccuracies or technical problems, which I suppose will have to be solved when before. Days after that inquiry, on March 10, 2014, the counselor advocated making adjustments to the Act on Contributions so that all historical territories could feel comfortable. And he added: "I trust that throughout this year (2014) the adjustment of the Act on Contributions is agreed." However, nothing has been presented to date, and the Act on Contributions continues to be extended. What, by the way, in our opinion also shows not only the failure of the Basque Nationalist Party, the failure of the outlaws (or some of them, or one of them), but, above all, what shows all this is the failure of the Basque institutional model, of the system we have, how gloomy it is, how complex it is, the difficulties it puts on the road. That's what it proves. Therefore, in our amendment, in addition to defending, as Mr Damborenea said, something obvious, that is to ask the Government to present this law as soon as possible, within three months, which we have collected, what we also propose is to promote the legal and constitutional changes that are necessary to change all this state of affairs and this monumental mess that we have in Euskadi with this absurd Basque institutional framework. And that is why, in addition to saying yes, we agree with the first point or with what the Group of the European People's Party is proposing, what we are saying is that a number of reforms are also needed to modernise the country as a whole. That, by the way, is identical to the second point defended in the previous point, because it is all related (Vasco Finance Council, Economic Concert, Law of the Cup, institutional framework, etc., etc., etc.). And, since we think that all this needs to be changed, what we propose on that second point is that the legal reforms that are necessary to move towards a truly federal, egalitarian and truly supportive model of state, that put a little reasoning to the whole of the Spanish institutions, and in this case also the Basques, are encouraged. Finally, this is, therefore, our whole amendment. I do not know whether the rest of the groups are going to vote in favour of the People's Party motion. If so, there will obviously be a clear mandate for the Government to present this contribution law as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u38	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u39	Good morning, everyone. As a matter of fact, this evening, the subject which Monsieur Damboreea has set up for discussion, or has put us on the table, is a subject which has long since been on the table. The discussion of the Law of Contribution is not a new subject. He has said that it is a matter which every time comes out, because of the differences and differences between historical regions. It is not the only subject that can dispute the difference and defect of lands, but it is the most important in the model of the organisation of the country which is established. And because there are many differences in this dispute, we have not renewed the Contribution Law in 2011. So we're talking about today's four-year-old delay law. As a matter of fact, it was a law planned in the New Year's Law, and the government he planned to run in the first semester of 2014. But here we are, in October 2015, having this discussion. So it's not submitted. And, as Maneiro said, last year after the Basque Council meeting, Mr. Gazagabarria mentioned in an opening at the Ogresual Board that had been published by Mr. Gazaki and Aldudias had already made up a technical group already to examine the effects and consequences of the Contribution Act on the way to agree on a new law. That was a year ago, and we haven't had any official news yet. At that moment, at that committee, we said, and today we repeat: The Contribution Law perpetuates the differences between the Lands, and it must come to that question at once. What has to be done is a real deep discussion about the Contribution Law. This law is the direct reflection of the existing organisation of the country, and we must find amongst them a standard which answers better to the necessities of this people, the example which answers to the interests of the whole community. Because the Act on Contributions has been the subject of debate every time the Basque Finance Council meets. Last year was especially relevant, due to the distortion generated by the collection by the update of balances, but it was nothing new. We all remember and can remember disagreements in previous years, which have been settled with specific agreements in the Council itself, but in other cases no corrective solution has been granted. And the reality is that the application of this law has been problematic for too many years. Different technical reports have highlighted the imbalances and misadjustments created by the implementation of this law, and point to the existence of a territory, in particular Bizkaia, which contributes to the financing of common institutions below their collection capacity. And, with regard to the General Adjustment Fund, Gipuzkoa and Araba have been the recipients of the Fund, and the amount received has not enabled either of them to meet the objective that their relative share in the collection should reach 99 % of the horizontal coefficient. Contribution according to horizontal coefficients creates differences between territory. For the weight of each country over the whole collection of taxes is removed from its horizontal coefficients, which causes a trading problem. In order to face this structure of desorca, at times, several tweaks have been introduced into the model. To mention others, when special taxes were transferred to 1997, it was decided that their distribution would be made according to horizontal coefficients among the territory of 1997. The same year, the general fund for adaptation was introduced into the model. 2005 and 2006. In years, to reduce the disproportionaryness produced from the change of operations with imports, by provisional means, a compensation was introduced in the model, in favor of the countries which had been injured. And the next year, in 2007, the tax collectors of the VAT, were resolved to divide it according to horizontal coefficients between the three forums of the forum, inasmuch as the disproportion created for having changed the regulations of the operations of the importations, which have been formerly created. But the differences between lands have not disappeared. These adjustments have been made, but they're still there. And besides, there are more and more. They increase because there are many other uncorrected distortions. So it's clear that this law doesn't work properly. To overcome the balance of the present we must take another important step in the Contribution Law, which is not worth the mere continuation of the former. The abuse of lands ought to be abandoned, and a law which best answers the wants of this people. That's why we're in charge. The question is not only to present a law, but to introduce the Law of Contribution, which will prevent the present Distractions, and injuries of one another, or the Contribution of Contributions. In short, it is a question of providing us with a new law of contributions that does not simply follow the previous law, but avoids the mutual imbalances and prejudices that it generates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing in the pay shift that hasn't been run, Euskal Sozialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u41	President, ladies and gentlemen. The People's Party proposes to us through a non-law proposal that the Government should bring in a new contribution law. The first thing I want to say, because I have been very attentive to your intervention, is that neither the proposal you make, nor the non-law proposal, nor even your intervention here, clarify anything in relation to what you are supposed to pursue. We are in a legislative chamber, and obviously a plural chamber, and therefore we do not all think the same or have the same interest or the same interests when it comes to politics. It seems reasonable to think that, if the People's Group wants a new law on contributions, it will be because it has some objective that it wants to achieve. And I believe that this is the minimum requirement to be made in legislative work and in parliamentary work when legislation is proposed. We believe that both the Law of Contributions and many others, all those that are related to our institutional framework, to our way of organizing ourselves, I believe that they are all susceptible to revision and improvement, but I believe that we must do so by making proposals that can be valued and on which we can work. The Socialist Group at this session, in this legislature, has put forward legislative initiatives (it has put forward the Housing Act, it has put forward the Historical Territories Act), it has put forward other kinds of policies where it proposed what it wanted to do (there is everything that has been done in relation to taxation), or, for example, we have been putting forward for a long time at the level of Spain that a constitutional reform is necessary, going towards a federal model, and we say what we would like to change. This is our political proposal, this is our approach and our way of working, and that is why I think it is reasonable for us to ask you for correspondence. That is, why the People's Party wants a new contribution law to be proposed. Because what seems to me to be quite illogical is that a specific party that is ruling is being charged with leading the government of all the institutions that have to deal with the Law on Contributions, that it be asked, without giving it any indication, to make a law, as if the proposal that it could make was to satisfy the interests of the People's Party. Look, I don't need to get my other political goals done. My political objectives are set by me. Of course, as you do not clarify anything, and you have repeatedly said here that you do not propose anything, so we must interpret it. And, indeed, in the interpretation, and pulling from hemerotecas, almost always the only thing that appears is that Álava is aggrieved in relation to the contribution that she makes to the whole, from which the Basque Government benefits, as if the contributions were a system to benefit territories or to benefit the Basque Country in the purely instrumental sense, that is, as if what the Law on Contributions had to regulate was only what part of the resources are taken by the deputies, which part are taken by the municipalities and which part is taken by the Government. This war, this kind of territorial war proposal, this kind of comparative grievances, this very institutional debate but without content towards citizenship, we do not see it reasonable, because in reality the Basque Government, the deputies and the municipalities have to do what they have to do is to guarantee health, to guarantee education, to guarantee social policies, to guarantee public investment..., to guarantee all those aspects that have to do with citizenship. And I am open to a debate about the institutional model to know how we solve all that. If I am open to a debate to see how each institution is assigned functions, competencies and resources so that they can be carried out. I am open to whether there is a permanent overlap of competences, or whether there are even invasions of competences, or whether there are limitations of competences. I am open to approaches of institutional reform, of reform of the Administration, that allow, with the citizen's objective, with the aim of bringing to the citizen better public services and better care, we can establish an organizational mechanism that is much more modern, more advanced, and above all more solidarity, more just, more equal, better distribution, more equitable... But none of this arises in the proposal made by the People's Party. The People's Party has for a very long time been saying, therefore, that Álava is badly stopped, and this has a more aroma of wanting to do political battles from those trenches in which one feels more comfortable, where one believes he is stronger, where politically believes he is better off, than really of solving some political problem. I believe that inequality in the Basque Country is not between a city council or a parliament and the government. The inequality in the Basque Country is between those who have jobs and those who do not, among those who have a small income and a large income, among those who have more access to public services and much more remoteness or difficulty, among those who have better communications or worse communications for their mobility... So, of course, having an abstract debate, having a debate about whether the Basque Government, instead of the 70, has to keep the 60; whether the Foral Diputación de Álava, instead of the 16th, has to move to the 14th; whether Bizkaia's, instead of the 50th, has to move to the 60th... Listen, is this simply cold, not talking about competences, not talking about what needs to be guaranteed, not talking about the policies that have to be common to all citizens? What I'm asking you is that you go to some kind of concretion, some kind of orientation. If you want a contribution law, it'll be for something, it'll be to get somewhere. It won't be for the Basque Nationalist Party to offer you on a tray the menu you'd like to taste, because I'm sure you won't. I'm sure you won't like the menu at the end, and then what to do with this kitchen if it's not necessary. Of course, I believe that the Law on Contributions, regardless of whether its updating is a responsibility that falls to the institutions concerned – and this in the Law on Contributions is clearly established how it is done – regardless of that, when we come here to a political debate, listen, take the risk of saying politically where you want to take us. Because he has not raised anything at all; moreover, he has made a boast that he did not propose anything. Hey, make me a law! Finally, we do not instruct the Basque Nationalist Party to make us the Housing Act, the Historical Territories Act, or any other legislation we have proposed here. We've done it ourselves. Neither the Municipal Law, nor a few things where we already knew what we wanted and were already defending a political horizon. That we will then have reached it or have arrived in part, or that we are still in the process of parliamentary debate, but knowing where we were going. Therefore, in the end, this way of working may be very comfortable for you, because it is to order things to the adversary. Well, well, I don't know how to interpret it, I don't understand it, I don't share it, and therefore, I'm not going to endorse it. If you want an amendment to the Contributions Act, I want to know what you want to do in an amendment to the Contributions Act. And when you know what you want in an amendment to the Contributions Act I will see that there is actually a job and that I can value it, and on which I can position myself, give alternatives or what I think appropriate. But at the moment your initiative is an absolutely white initiative. I mean, he doesn't have a mark, he doesn't have anything, and maybe it's worse: he's entrusted it to the opponent. And, finally, this looks like a stronger movie to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u42	Thank you, Mr Price. Madame Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u43	Good morning, and thank you, Chief of Parliament. Chief physician, good morning. Good morning, everyone. Monsieur Damboena, for the sake of raising the initiative, you said that it was the proclamation of all the aldunciations, and that here, as the chief physician told you, there is a company in this sense in the Basque Council of Public Services, working in this way. You have mentioned that it is not necessary to explain the payment of the Cupids, and to accept the new law of Cupid in order to make the Laws of Contributions. And it's true it's not necessary, but it's beneficial. It is not a sine qua non condition, but it is absolutely desirable that, prior to the adoption of the contribution law, the pending liquidations of the quota and also the new quota law should be clarified. Why? Because the contribution law does what it does is to determine what it is, how the rest of the collection is distributed, first of all, as set out in the Historical Territories Act, after paying the quota part that we have to pay to the State. So, Mr. Damborena, that's clear. What remains of a certain sum of money, which must be distributed, if we are to know how it can be done directly, may be done in a better manner; it is necessary that we should know by the cup how much money is to be paid to the state. That, we think, is the best, the best scenario at this moment, although, as you say, it's not necessarily, but it's the right thing to do. You've mentioned in a meaningful way that this "Fndo General de Ajuste" is an element, that the system is innocent. To mention the expression you used, you said, "es injusto desde el miniuto uno." And we don't agree with your statement. We believe that it is highly beneficial, and that it is only natural that in its case there should arise an independence from the system of established contributions, if there should arise in its case an independency, that is the way to account for it. It's obvious if there's an unbalance in the way of rethinking. And in other quarters, there are other grounds for rethinking the balance between different countries. So, we don't agree with that statement you made. Mr. Maniro, you have stated that this law is a proof of the system of the euscal institutions, that it is a different element, "es un fracasso." And we ourselves, as you will be sure, do not agree at all; for, in our opinion, the organizational system of our institutions is a great system of success. This does not mean that in some cases, and in several districts, there are some faultes, and the camps to be directed are not to be found. And that's why the team works in this case and in other areas. But there is no indication of a failure on the contrary. And more than once I have said to you in several disputes: compare data, see how our organizations are and compare other systems to the state of those in other systems. Healthy administrations, a Basque model of social protection that is reference – and you know – to many areas of the state and also other European environments. It cannot be said, as you continually say, that it is a failed system, that it is a failure of an institutional organization system. We don't agree at all in that assertion you make. Mrs. Pinedo said that this law would have been foreseen by the government program of M.P.M., and, as you know better than you, this law has not the same system as a normal bill of law before it could come here, or even a legal proposition. We couldn't accept it, suggest it, or even suggest it by itself. An agreement of the institutions which are in the Basque Council of the United Nations is necessary for them to come here. So you shouldn't blame me. First, that's what it takes. You have mentioned, as a model of the faults, that the Bice has more talent for the collection, and that is another meaning of the fault. Our model, you know, is not according to the collection. You know it's a type of rent, and you can't take that point to indicate that it's the system fault. This does not mean that there are laws in which points can be improved, and that is where we are employed in this work which was founded in 2013, when it was founded in 2013. We must note that the extension of the law ended in 2011. In 2011, we weren't happy. We had a rep at the Council. And not even in 2012. That crew was created in 2013, and that's what it is. But, as we say, the agreement is necessary, the agreement of the institutions is necessary. It is advisable, because it is a more direct stage, to account for the Cupid, and to explain this dispute in the law of Cupid, and then to make a suitable proposition of the law. You have mentioned many changes, Mrs. Pinedo, and I believe that this pattern of contributions is a dynamic model, and has been directed at the moment by the facills which have been detected, and that the law has been adapted to the moment and to the context. All the changes you've made are a sign of the law's dyamism. That's obvious too. You've defended your full correction and introduced it. And you mention "the damages between each other." And, well, "knowing." And we make no agreement with this assertion, because it seems that this mutual injury presents a will, and that if it were to come to be, it would be necessary to correct it. But there is absolutely no will to do that. So, what I said. The law is extended, as the law itself foresees, in its last regulation. If there are concerns, cares are shared among all, cares are shared, not to be in time. The crew is working. We believe that this model, founded on income, is adequate, but if the opportunity is to vary and improve things, it would be the best scenario for what has been said: To deal with all the problems we first got in Madrid. Eta lehen Egibar jaunak galdera bat egin du, zuk zeuk, Damborenea, berriro aipatu izan duzuna: "Why does the Joint Commission not meet to resolve the discrepancies we have around the interpretation of the quota?". You have referred to that question, and the question is this: let's get on with it. Let us resolve the discrepancies that we have (we all have shared responsibilities; responsibilities are shared), and we will resolve those problems, first, and then we will have a good and new law of contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the answers, Monsieur Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u45	Thank you very much, Madam President. Man, Mr. Prieto, I don't know if you've come out to make a deal to make a "pasemisí, pasemisá, and we're going to vote against it because it's the deal we have with the Basque Nationalist Party and point," and then you tell me (it's amazing)... You're telling me to bring the law here, bring a bill? Is that what you told me? With ideas, what do I propose and so on? You know I can't do it! You know I can't do it! No, no, Yes, he did. He did tell me. Don't you know what we think? Hey, I should know. We do not vote in favour of the current Act on Contributions. We said it was unfair, since minute one. We said it was unfair, and not so much in the horizontal coefficients, that also, and in the vertical... Yes, yes, and you will review, if you like, the contributions and amendments that we made to that proposal, to that bill of contributions in your day. I didn't come here with the Álava Diputation... But I'm going to tell you one thing. Look, you and your party rule in the three outlaws. You can. Sure, you do; I don't. I do not govern in any outlaw and in the Basque Government, but you can take your proposals to the Basque Finance Council, since you are on the three governing councils and you also have the agreement here with them. Of course, these are on all three. And you! What I have told you is that the three parliaments complain, the three. Or what do you think, that Bizkaia doesn't complain? If the first proposal made by the new deputy general of Bizkaia in his assumption of office was that he would immediately put forward the reform of the Act on Contributions! Of course, what happens is that then, fifteen days later, meeting with the lehendakari, and where I said, I mean Diego. Why? Because the three are hurt, and we said it many years ago, and there is a benefit. And because the system is not of reality, it is of predictions. It says, "No, it's a contribution system." Yes, of course, it's a system... I always get it, and the others stay there. Sure, that's the system we have. You may agree; we do not agree. But it's just that we, I tell you, we don't vote for that law. You do. Perhaps you, Mr Txarli Prieto, representative of the Socialist Party, agree with the current Act on Contributions, it seems very good to you, and you understand that there is no need to bring a new one. But don't tell me I have to bring my proposals! I can't take them where to take them, or discuss them. I told her, in the last legislature, where we were taking her. That's why there have been meetings, and they have been meeting from 2013 until today. Since 2013. And one of the priorities of this government was to bring this law of contributions to the beginning, and it is clear that it will not come, that it will not come in this legislature. Of course, then we have to ask ourselves the next question. Now we have three deputies governed by the PNV and the PSOE. If they're unable to bring in a new contribution law... And what are you waiting for, that in a year, that maybe there's another government, then it's gonna be easier? Look, a year ago we were told it was very complicated because there were four ruling parties. Hey, look, if you agree with two, I'd have three; absolute majority no, the next in this House. And he didn't look! It was very complicated, but that agreement was not sought, nor was it attempted. Well, it looks like it's easier today. Well, neither. It's not about that either. And we also see that, finally, with the Socialist Party, in a... You will know, because, I say to you, as responsible as you are, that you are in the three outlaw governments and support the Basque Government in this matter. And, look, you tell me that I can bring... Look, what I'm not is... Of course, I am quite consistent, and in this life I try to be so (it is sometimes complicated, but I try to be so); then, I tend to comply with the laws, and if a law tells me that this has to be brought to me by the Basque Government from the Basque Finance Council, I urge the Basque Government to present the project to the Basque Finance Council and then bring it to us here, which is when I can discuss it. I already know that you are in another dynamic and that, of course, your proposals seem out of the question, as you have done in the LTH to modify the Concert, the Statute and the Constitution. Well, we will continue to respect the Constitution, the Statute, the Concert and the LTH as long as it is in force, and when it changes, then we will adapt to those changes. And in the meantime, I will ask the government and those responsible to govern us, here and in the parliaments, to do their duties where they have to do them. And obviously, for what? Hey, if you have the three institutions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u46	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u47	... bitches (I don't know if you've found out: in the last five years, the three bitches), let's see if they're able to find a model that satisfies at least two. Two!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u48	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Misst, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u49	Yes, thank you, President. Mrs. Gorospe told me that I have come to say something like this Law of Contributions demonstrates the failure of the model. I haven't said exactly that, though it's also true. I have said exactly that what shows the failure of the model is that you do not bring this law of contributions to the Basque Parliament, and that we have an extended law of contributions for four years. This is the evidence of the model's failure. And it is indeed the responsibility of the Basque Finance Council to bring this law. Already a year and a half ago the councilman himself said that they were on the subject and that they would bring it throughout 2014, but that it was complicated, because the institutions were in the hands of different political parties. That's not the case anymore. The institutions are governed by the Basque Nationalist Party, and the Basque Socialist Party, if you will. Therefore, they have only one colour. And yet the months go by and the legislative timetable itself or what would be the Basque Finance Council's own obligation to bring in that contribution law continues to be breached. This is, therefore, what shows the failure of the model. And not because UPyD says so, but because you yourselves are unable to meet the demands that are included in that crazy model that we have. But what I raise is: as long as this model change does not take place, what needs to be done is to ask the Basque Finance Council once again to bring in this law of contributions. You said before that the problem was that the institutions were in the hands of several political parties, and now you say that the problem is that we do not have an updated quota law. This is also false, because, as has been said, there is no need to have an updated quota law to pass the relevant contribution law. They're excuses, therefore. And of course, this law of contributions can be modified, as the councillor himself said a year and a half ago: there are technical problems, inequalities are created. I do not want to wage any kind of inter-territorial war on these kinds of matters in relation to which certain historical territories may be harmed. I've never done it, I've opposed it. But I think it has been many years already to demand that the Basque Government and the Finance Council bring that law, because indeed – and I have also been told for a year and a half by the Councillor – this Parliament cannot present that law. Of course, reforms must be promoted. We must reform, Mr Prieto, the Spanish Constitution in order to move towards a truly federal state, and federalism is equality. We must move towards the reform of the Law on Economic Concert (we have talked about it before and I think I have been meridianly clear). The Historical Territories Act must be reformed, or even abolished or abolished, to also abolish the general boards of historic territories and outlaws. Anyway, you have to do a lot of things. I think I'm pretty clear when I talk about these things. But as long as this is not done, I believe it is reasonable for this Parliament to ask the government to submit its own contribution law. And this is what is being demanded. Therefore, Txarli Prieto's intervention gave the impression that it was like a kind of excuse to support the Basque Nationalist Party again. Not too many arguments have been put forward. Is the Basque Finance Council obliged to present this law, yes or no? Yeah. It's been four years and he hasn't shown up? Yeah. Indeed, you have to present it. What do you propose, that Mr Damborenea should focus on this non-legislative proposal on what criteria the People's Party would include in that contribution law? We would be told that it is not the responsibility of this House, and that all it has to do and can do is approve it later with the single reading procedure. Therefore, for me the most reasonable thing is, in my opinion, to vote in favour of the Basque Finance Council bringing in this law of contributions, even if we do not like the institutional framework, and we do not like anything. And then, of course, continue to defend all those reforms that we have been defending. But finally, to come and say what you have said, to vote against because the People's Party does not propose exactly what it wants, when it is the responsibility of the Basque Government and the Finance Council, I am, of course, somewhat rare. But yes, you had spoken, you had agreed, and this response from the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party responds to the pact they have signed. That's the only way to understand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u50	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u51	Yes, thank you, ma'am. The truth is that some of the arguments have been surprising to me, especially for the part that launched them. I have not yet fully understood the position of the Socialist Party on a subject that I believe has a problem, and I thought that the Socialist Party could position itself in other parameters, beyond maintaining what situation of not getting wet. It has given me the feeling that I didn't want to say whether to change or not to change the law, but, well, there it is. Madame Gorospe finally replicated me in the front part. So we already know the nature of the law. I didn't say so and I didn't blame you for the time. Only in my part I've established a reality, and reality is that there is delay in this law. Mr. Maneiro has just said that the law hasn't been brought in for four years. And I have to tell you, too, that Kupo's affair is somehow appropriate to illustrate it, and I do not see it at all. I think they're both capable, if they have a relationship, but they don't have to go one after the other at all. In the first place, there were different political parties in institutions... That, too, seems to point out a defect in the system. We can't think that it only works when all the institutions are in the hands of one side, that can't be. Our system has to work as things are, according to what nations decide. We cannot therefore lay down on the table, because there were several first political parties, there was no law or proposition. Because, as you know as well as I do, the technical working group has been working on this issue for quite some time. There have been very strong discussions there, and you know as well as I do that there are disputations that are insistently reluctant to some of the technical changes that may arise with respect to this law. Everyone will know why, but if here we want to have and worry about everyone's well-being and get rid of territorialism, then I think we all have to do something on that path. If there are injuries between them, it is not a consequence of the will. I didn't say it was the result of the will. I said there were damages between them. And not only the adjustments I've said, which have been made, but which were mostly the adjustments made in the system by some technical materials. Not these, but some punctual problems have happened and have been solved. Not by adjusting the law, but by obtaining some sort of settlements in the Basque Council. Last year... You give me this, you give it to the other... And that's no way to maintain a system. We can't find that every time there's a mismatch in the collection, or under circumstances, we encounter a meeting of the Basque Finance Council that has to start with "I give you because you take me away," "I take you away because I give you...", and we come to an agreement here between four parties, because the law doesn't provide for this kind of situation. It can't be that we can't be capable of deciding how to divide the financial resources of our institutions in this matter, to decide in the end in a room between four people. And that's what we say. We say this law, in the present state, must be this law, and therefore must be so, that this law must be sufficiently adjusted. That this law ought to prevent the disorders which are there, and to deprive them of the evils which are there. And that's what we're proposing, but it's obvious that four years ago there has been no progress, and unfortunately, according to what we see, it won't be done this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u53	President. Mr. Damborenea, I believe that you, who seem to pull a hemerotheque, sometimes betrays you to forget what you say and what you do. Look, in 2007, which is the time when the current law was passed, which has subsequently been extended, because it was in force until 2011, Mr. Rabanera said that this new law guaranteed financial stability for the next five years. I mean, he thought it was a good deal, and he thought it was a good law. That he had to do so under the abstention approach, because you, apart from what he was negotiating as a deputy general in the Basque Finance Council with the other two parliaments and the Basque Government, imposed on him that he would abstain, with a whole rosary of statements by him that he agreed. But, finally, this was the year 2007, you have been able to change. Well, let's see what you've done. From 2011 to 2015... Do you know what year we live? In 2015, right? For from 2011 to 2015 you have shared Basque Finance Council with the Basque Nationalist Party, and Bildu has shared Basque Finance Council with the Basque Nationalist Party. The two of you have shared! Hey, and from 2011 to 2015 you haven't had time to propose a new contribution law? They have not had time from 2011 to 2015. Hey, you haven't done your job right, have you? And now they propose that it be the Basque Nationalist Party that brings together the leaders of the institutions and brings here a law, when it has already answered them a few days ago that until 2017 it does not intend to move a finger, even if it says that it is studying it. Therefore, with this scenario we are here, and you come and – since this morning you are telling everyone that we don't know anything about it – it seems you haven't found out that you have no willingness until 2017 to do absolutely nothing; however, you want there to be a new law of contributions, but you don't say for what. As if a PNL proposing a new contribution law was an end in itself, it was the panacea: we have already solved the world because the request for a law has already come forward. Hey, no, no! Political commitment requires much more. Political commitment requires you to come here and say what you want to change the Contributions Act for. I'll tell you what you want to change the contribution law for. Not for what you want to change the contribution law, which we'll see if it changes, it doesn't change, how it changes... No, no. You want to enter a war of territories as a result of the Law of Contributions, saying that Álava is mistreated, saying that Álava is underfunded, again raising the problem of more foralism and less country... To those of us who think that what has to be more country, because there has to be more citizenship and because there has to be more equality, and because there has to be more rights. But you want to enter into that provincialist policy, a bit of a village, much of that political formation that proposed those alavesist and village political considerations on many occasions. And then, of course, this is not what has to go with the times. You have to come here and you have to say what law you would like it to come out, in what orientation. And if you want to make that debate I make that debate. And if that debate really goes and is serious, we then propose to the Basque Finance Council, we propose to the Basque Government and we propose to the outside parliaments that, according to a number of criteria, they bring us a new law to this Parliament. As we did, by the way, with the tax reform, we brought the political proposals and then we already knew who was responsible for making the regulations, because we already knew who had the competition. And it was done by those who had to do it, but here there was a deep, serious, responsible, rigorous political debate, as is the case with a political party that takes politics seriously and takes Parliament seriously. And you, with this proposal today, have not taken politics or Parliament seriously, and that is why you have brought this, which you have tabled, saying, "I bring nothing here." Actually, you're nothing right now, but you have the chance to be something if, as you used to say, you progress properly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u54	Thank you, Mr Price. Finally, Mrs. Gorospe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u55	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Mr Prieto, in the review of who was in 2011 at the Basque Finance Council, you forgot to say that you were too. He said it was Bildu, it was the People's Party, it was the PNV, each of us with a member, the representative of the outlaw parliament... but you were ruling. That was the year in which, where appropriate, if there had to be a fair law prepared for the end of the originally planned term, the work had to have been done since 2011. You were there like the others. Por eso yo, and you, Mrs. Pinedo, say I mentioned that the difference of colours made the agreement more difficult. No, what I was trying to say is that we have all our cares, that it is difficult to get that consent between the institutions, but not that different colours have naturally made them so. I said if there's any responsibility here, we're all responsible. Mr. Maneiro, what the counselor told you is that above the colors are the institutions. In the 2014 inquiry, he said, "Beyond the colors are the institutions." That's what he told you. He said that it is false what I have said, that I have said that it is necessary to have resolved... to have a new law of quota and to resolve the conflict that we have in relation to the liquidations of quota. I didn't say that. Moreover, I have insisted that, although it is not an essential requirement, it is the best scenario to be able to address this issue on which we are discussing. I have not said at all that it is essential, but necessary and convenient. That's the way you've been talking about how Kupo's business is being solved. We think it's related and that's the rightest scenario. The previous legislature (you too have forgotten!It is that you supported the Socialist Government! How we forget! Because, of course, it says "the socialists were in the previous legislature." And you, supporting that government too! Some responsibility you'll have too! Because what was the support for the Government? And then what did Araba propose? In conclusion, reviewing a meeting of the Finance Commission of the General Boards of Álava, I found a paragraph of which was then junta, Ramiro González, and I was telling the then deputy general, speaking in connection with the amendment of the Law of Contributions: "Well, we will have to address a reform of the Law of Contributions, we will have to do it, or at least try it. From consensus, from seriousness, and away from party debate. And you did not start with a good foot, Mr De Andrés, because this, the proposal, you tell us here today, but you told us earlier in a public appearance, in the middle of the election campaign, and that is no way to do things." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Third point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by Ichasus González, the members of the Basque Socialists, the record of special employment centers. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Ichaso, it's your turn to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u57	Good morning, everyone. Lehenik eta behin, Talde Sozialistaren izenean, Arraztalo elkarteko kidei ongi etorria eman nahi diet, nahiz eta bisita ha bereziki atsegina ez izan. And why this? Because we have a government whose strong phrase, whose slogan, whose portico phrase is "A commitment to people. It's Helburu." However, the citizens of Arraztalo elkartea here today cannot say that this Government is committed to them, as well as to other social-based initiatives that are waiting for the registration of special employment centres to be opened once and for all. And not only does the government not meet these citizens, but it does not even meet its own commitments, as we will have an opportunity to see. And why is there no register of special employment centres? Let us make some history to focus on the subject and the subject of this debate, and we will recall that the first inquiry was in December 2013. The motion was registered on 17 December and was dealt with in this House on 13 February 2014. What then did that motion say? That motion then said that "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to create at this session the administrative framework for the qualification and registration of special employment centres, with the participation of trade unions and agents and with retroactive effect to 1 January for those who register during this year, in order to receive aid which, from the 2014 financial year, can be obtained by such entities! Good. With this, as with all active employment policies, the Government did nothing remarkable, and on 13 June 2014 the branch advisor was asked to see what was going on, that this agreement was not being implemented at the end of the session. And Mr. Aburto, then then alderman and now a flaming mayor of Bilbao, told us the following: That it took more time, because if you want to do it the best way is greater than that established by the agreement to which we have referred..., which has already been explained that a proper development of the law for all policies supporting the employment of persons with disabilities, and in that proper legal framework establish the regulations of the special centers... Anyway. And that without a certain legal framework this made the task difficult. Subsequently, on a written question from Euskal Herria Bildu, the government, when asked to see what was going on with this, says that "it is very complex to elaborate" – this is October 20, 2014, a few months later –... , that "it is very complex to draw up a register without the normative reference of the law, so setting time limits is difficult for us. In any case, the adoption of the legislation will take place when all the mechanisms that guarantee the possible consensus on this matter have been developed, and we believe that it should not go beyond the first quarter of next year." (In the first interpellation the counselor said that for 2014.) "As the amendment puts it, we are in the process of contrasting this second draft with the different actors involved...", etc., etc., etc., etc. Well, I believe that the government has Carl Honoré's book as its heading, which is "The Praise of Slowness", which warns us against the evils of our time (speed, rhythm, haste), and then I believe that this government no longer even claims, but directly exercises the right to slowness. Right to slow... That, by the way, speaking of law, presents us with a draft already a year ago, presents us with a draft a year ago in which, for example, all the issues mentioned are the same ones that raise decrees of other autonomous communities: nature, object, definition, scope..., in short. However, it does not define the concept of a special employment centre, which does define, for example, the Decree of the Community of Aragon 212/2010, which opens the registers, and does so without giving any pot. Nor does it raise the possibility of administrative remedies against decisions which fall within the meaning of them, as does Decree 96/97 of the Community of Madrid. Or, for example, on the change of ownership, as regulated by Decree 2/2015, of the Autonomous Community of La Rioja. That is to say, in order to take so long, to prolong and delay in time in this way, without complying with parliamentary agreements, the truth is that they have not made such an advanced or progressive text. But, frankly, I prefer the Government to approve the draft as it stands, to say that it wants to improve it thanks to the contributions we make here, because the truth is that this is really taking a long time. Of course, on the question of public aid, that is why we are also putting the motion that we are presenting today, which I am going to read. He says that "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to create within two months the administrative framework for the qualification and registration of special employment centres, with the participation of trade unions and agents. "Subsidial orders for the 2015 financial year to such centres shall take into account applicants for registration who during the financial year formalize their registration with effect from 1 January, and may be beneficiaries and entitled to them regardless of whether the grant orders are published before their registration". Why? We believe that this is a precaution to be taken, because, as I am confident that this motion will go forward with the support of the groups that in their day supported another similar motion, I am not so confident that the Government will comply with that agreement, if available, and with those determinations. And why is that? Because, as I said before, the Government does not even comply with its own determinations. On 2 June 2013, the Government presented in committee the objectives of the Department of Employment and Social Policy for the tenth legislature, and in the short-term objectives, then, one of them was the drive to the social economy, with support for the creation of enterprises and the provision of management tools to enterprises of this type. Well, special employment centres are also social economy, and of course, with the halting of that registration, you cannot set up companies of this nature, as you well know, counselor. Moreover, we have the employment recovery programmes 2014-2016, where on page 43 it says "Taking advantage of the potential of the local economy to detect new productive possibilities from the basis of the collaboration of the different local agents of our municipalities and regions, favoring the implementation of measures that take advantage of this local and regional endogenous potential to generate and maintain employment". Well, this has to do with local politics, too. And by the way, I have to say that a budget exercise in local employment policies has been smoked. On page 101, on the other hand, it says: "Objectives. Persons at risk of exclusion need specific support to increase their employability, which should largely revolve around increasing their training. Within this group, it is necessary to specifically support persons with disabilities, since it is a group that generally has a lower educational level than the total population and a low rate of activity". Then we have that in the full monograph of 8 March 2013 resolutions such as the 7.7 of Bildu were adopted, in which it said: "The Parliament urges the government to design and develop aid aimed at the employment of disabled people, as well as to support these people in the integration into ordinary enterprises". And this is also integrated into the economic recovery plan. Or Amendment No 100 by the Basque Nationalist Party itself, which said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to strengthen the treatment of special employment centres in a specific way, and to articulate measures to support and strengthen them, urging the administrations to comply with LISMI in the matter of recruitment". This was also said by the Basque Nationalist Party. But then we have, of course, Lanbide's strategic plan, with ample documents, with a nomenclature that talks about objectives, axes, lines of action... The action line E4-1.2 states: "Develop measures to promote and support persons with disabilities and/or mental illness, such as cross-cutting action of work activation, training and employment promotion programmes". Well, it won't be because the government doesn't documentally deploy great proclamations and exhorts, in short, sounding. But what is the reality today? The reality today is that two years later we have to resubmit a motion in similar terms that safeguards the legitimate interests and rights of those initiatives that seek to become special employment centres, which today cannot be so without registration, and so that once and for all they can also come and benefit from public aid. Although, as I say, I have more the impression that the Government is going to slow down the process to make even this claim unworkable. Mr. Counsellor finished his speech last day, on the occasion of the question that gave rise to this motion, saying that, well, registration is an instrument, an instrument, and that the important thing is the special employment centres, which require priority attention. Well, what I am saying to you, Mr Councillor, is that there are groups here who deserve and are also entitled to this priority attention, and therefore, open up at once, make operational this register of special employment centres, so that those who are not operating today can also receive this priority attention. Mr Aiartza, I regret that I was unable to reach an agreement with you, not for lack of credibility in your approaches, but because you are on the bench supporting the Government, and in view of this background, the Government does not offer us any credibility. No credibility. However, we are obliged, as an opposition that we are, to demand again, in the presence in addition to stakeholders and people who aspire once and for all to this register being operational and able to formalise its registration, and to operate in the market for special employment centres. As we do not have that confidence, so, Mr. Aiartza, I have not reached an agreement with you. As I say to you, not because it is difficult to agree with you, but because in this case you are defending, of course, the Government. And in this area, as in all that has to do with active employment policies, the truth is that it does not offer us any confidence. I would have wanted to, but this really is a motion to tell the Government that it really cannot continue to defend in all that language a little bit to the Ozores, of "different regulatory framework", of what, if I don't know how many, when it then presents a draft that clearly sets out the normative framework, which is pre-existing, which comes with basic laws of the State, which says how these things have to be, and that, on the other hand, in common territory this has been done at other times without greater difficulty. It was only necessary to have taken it, to have made a comparative analysis of what other decrees regulate this type of institution, and to have taken it out. But the Government is slowing down in a somewhat irritating way, and that is why we are bringing this motion back to demand that the Government, once and for all, set up special employment centres.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u58	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Passing over the crews who are the leaders of justice, Mr. Adarz, who is the representative of the group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u59	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. The mixed model of route, occupation and employment management, seeking to generate effective employment opportunities for persons with disabilities, in a broad sense, has always been seen as a model, from other parts of the State that adopted another model of development, as a reference in terms of the employability results it achieved. And that history of special employment in Euskadi has had the success that we know, because it has always had a strong foundation, an associative base that promoted these first entrepreneurial initiatives and that today continues to promote them, forming. A reality recognized by all on different occasions, on many occasions, from social recognition, the recognition of our citizenship, to the recognition of recognition in this House. In this sense, without going any further, the positive comments and data that are materialized in this model. I can now recall the statements made by current and previous members of the Government by parliamentary spokesmen such as Mrs Llanos, or by yourself, Mr Itxaso, who recently reminded us of how Euskadi presents, together with Navarra, the lowest unemployment rate for persons with disabilities in relation to the Spanish State, and is at the head of employment for persons with disabilities and also at the head of employment for groups with disabilities with the greatest difficulties of integration, with particular reference to the model action of these companies. I have no doubt that this very serious, important issue concerns us all. We are concerned about all parliamentary groups, the Government is concerned, all of our citizens are concerned... It is a shared concern, since we talk about active employment policies, we talk about disabled people, we talk about job placement, we talk about real life projects. We fully share with the Sailburu Toña, from this parliamentary group, when it moves us that our institutions, our country, has repeatedly demonstrated enough to have a special dedication to these centres and to people with disabilities, who need a special integration and a special effort of all of us and ourselves for their integration into employment, and always thinking and acting to improve. Thinking and acting, with constant improvement in our compass. Because, indeed, our commitment, Mr Itxaso, is with people. And today we are dealing with this motion, as a result of the inquiry that in the past full of control on 16 October you carried out, Mr Itxaso to the Sailburu Toña. In that full of control you, as the holder of this initiative, already made us two previous announcements, two announcements like preventions about yourself. I got it that way, didn't I? That that interpellation would end up turning into this motion. Right, we're here today to treat her. And secondly, he also told us that his speech – and I quote – "may seem propagandistic, electoral." Right. And it is not that it may seem or seem, but it is propagandistic and electoral, that speech and that of today. And, as in the bad propaganda, you, Mr.Itxaso, want to initially transfer an image to us, and I quote again: "But the truth is that the government on this matter has done nothing." And today, too, he was giving his speech in this regard. As you said, it is indeed true that we are here today and it is true that your speech is about electoral propaganda, but it is uncertain that this Government on this matter has done nothing. And to support that image that wants to move us, in our view false image, uses very concrete tools. The normal thing, in our opinion, would have been to bring us some objective data, some significant examples... Today he has given us some documentary data, but not beyond. Something. Something. But no, it doesn't bring anything, just rhetoric. He's just bringing us rhetoric. Cement that false image into three ideas. Active employment policies – he told us; today he has not told us, but he has told us repeatedly – are an unwanted son of the Basque Nationalist Party and the government. From our point of view, from my point of view, an inappropriate simile, but it has been transferred to us on different occasions, regardless of whether it is directed at us or others. Another question, another idea: paralysis by observation. Today he also spoke of praise for slowness, of proclamations and exhortations that do not reach anywhere. And he was also talking to us – not today, certainly, but on other occasions – about unrecognizable intentions. You know that this you say is not true, and neither is it fair. You know that this thing you say is pure propaganda. You know that the truth in active policies is that you are working a lot and well. Certain facts: Decree 177/2010, on aid for the reconciliation of family and work life; aid for insertion companies; aid for entrepreneurs 2015; cooperation agreements and agreements with institutions, bodies and universities; aid for local actions to promote employment (two consecutive calls without interruption); call for aid for the recruitment of unemployed young people; Lehen Aukera programme; Sendotu programme; commitment to employment programme; three initiatives, one for each territory; call for aid for the development of actions and employment guidance services in collaboration with Lanbide; projects, training for unemployed people, and many others. And the specific ones in the field of disability: grant for indefinite recruitment of persons with disabilities in ordinary enterprises; aid for special employment centres; maintenance and job creation; support units for professional activity in special employment centres. True data, these are true data, with good results in some cases, with excellent results in others. He's doing a lot, and he's doing well. Those goals we were talking about today are being met. All these actions have maintained or increased their economic endowment since our incorporation. In all, management improvement is recognized by most entities. The deadlines for implementation have been shortened, the dates of the calls have been advanced, and new programmes have also been put in place in which the needs of persons with disabilities as a whole have been specifically considered. By way of example, the call for aid for the development of the service of employment centres in collaboration with Lanbide, or the call for aid for the development of actions and employment guidance services for groups with special difficulties (and one of the groups is that of persons with disabilities) and in the three territories. Returning to the motion, it is true that, beyond the fireworks of the interpellation of the past 16, and if we remove it, we can conclude that a single question was transferred to the Sailburu: "When are they going to create the register for special employment centres?". That was the only question we could make clear of this inquiry. To what the Sailburu answered clearly, leaving record of the steps that had been taken in the elaboration of this decree, its passage and approval by the board of directors of Lanbide on 12 July, and the preview of the signature of the corresponding order for 19 October. Then, we were told the Sailburu, the processing will begin as a general provision. And today, we already know that this order has certainly been signed on 19 October. This too is true: the credibility of this Government, in the face of that lack of progress that you are talking about. Throughout this process, the Government is having the continued collaboration of the third sector, with contributions from entities working for the employment of persons with disabilities. This Government continues to believe that the development of this decree for the registration of special employment centres should be (it should be, Mr. Itxaso) only part of a more general framework, where the needs, opportunities and challenges of employment are analysed. For this reason, and despite having had to focus on the preparation and drafting of this decree, the Government continues to work to provide a policy framework that provides responses to the findings of this comprehensive analysis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u60	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing on the line of uncorrected teams, Mistto-UPyD, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u61	Yes, thank you. Just to say... [[Write error]] ... Socialist Group. We agree with what is proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u62	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u63	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Well, as we are debating again here today, as Mr Itxaso has said, a motion on the creation of the administrative framework for the registration of special employment centres. And the truth is that re-discussing the initiative is the result of something that can be applied to this government, and that is summed up in a very popular phrase, which is that of "advices I sell that I don't have." Because we are faced with an absolutely demanding government in relation to what others have to do, but absolutely dispensing with their tasks. Because I have to remember, as has been said here, that a year ago, a year ago, we were discussing the same issue, and we approved an initiative aimed precisely at creating that register of special employment centres. And today, a year later, we are still unregistered and applying for the same. And the second issue is also a matter of substance to this Government, which is expert in the complaint, in the constant denunciation of non-compliance with the Statute, in the request for more transfers, but which is poorly applied in the exercise of the multiple transfers it does have in its possession. It is true, however much some say here, that active employment policies, when they were claimed, were claimed by mouth, because they were sued, but then they were not accepted. And it had to be a non-nationalist government that eventually assumed those powers. And in the exercise of these are not being applied precisely, and this initiative that is brought here today is a good example. In other autonomous communities, competition over active employment policies came very early, and in practice these registers have been approved for a long time. In some, such as the Community of Madrid, already since the last century, although it sounds very strong. It is true – it has been said here, we said it at the time and we must reiterate it – that employment difficulties have affected all areas, which have also affected the field of disabled people, although it is true that unemployment rates are lower, it is true that they are even lower, as I said at the time and today Mr Aiartza has said, even in those people who have the most difficulty in entering work. But it is also true, as I said at the time and I would like to reiterate now, that this greater integration is thanks to the important work that the social initiative and these mixed employment routes have developed in Basquedi. And, as was said here when the interpellation was completed, when it comes to the employment of persons with disabilities and special employment centres, it is clear that we must start by talking about LISMI, the basic legislation in which they appear to be defined. And, as he also said here, these centres are those where at least 70% are people with disabilities, and they can be public or private, and they can be for profit or not. The development regulations are set out in Royal Decree 2273/85 of 4 December and, in accordance with Article 7 thereof, it is stipulated that the establishment of such centres requires the qualification of the Administration and its subsequent registration in the Register of Public Service Centres for State Employment, or, where appropriate, in which the Autonomous Communities are responsible after verification of compliance with all the requirements. As we also said then, after Royal Decree 1441/2010, on the transfer of functions and services to the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, it is established that from that moment (i.e. from January 2011 onwards), as soon as the transfer of the transfer took effect, the qualification of the special employment centres became the competence of our community, namely Lanbide. And Lanbide is the one who has to make that register of special employment centres, and he is, according to the counselor, the one who is currently managing them through the Labour Activation Directorate. A year ago, as I said before, the creation of this register was discussed in this House. And it has also been, for what has been said here, a long time the elaborate draft. It was then commented and reiterated that a normative framework of reference was needed, but that normative framework already exists! I just told you, and you've been told before. Then what remains is the application of that normative framework and transform the draft, which is a draft, into a decree. It is true, and as has been reiterated here, that the Councillor said that it was being done, that in June this year the Lanbide Board of Directors approved the proposed regulations on the establishment of the register of special employment centres and the regulation of the qualification and registration procedure. He said that the initial documentation of the file was being finalized for processing, and that on October 19th – which has already passed – the order for the initiation of the procedure was expected to be issued. But the question to be asked is what has been done so far, what they have done all year. Is it so complicated to create this record? Why do other autonomous communities already have it and we still don't? Are other communities more capable than us? Of course, the more capable I don't know, but the faster... the faster they are. When this initiative was discussed last year, the previous advisor said that his intention was to create it in 2014. And the speaker in that plenary, the PNV representative, who was not Mr. Aiartza, pointed out that it seemed to be a race of deadlines, rather than doing the job right. Man, if you can, both things: do the job right, and within reasonable time. The truth is it must be more complicated to make the record than to build the pyramids of Egypt, eh! 'Cause it's late, it's late, hey! Because the year 2014, in which the record was to be, he left, the counselor also left, and the frame does not arrive. But it's just that this 2015 is leaving, this advisor will go, this government will go, and the registration will still not arrive. I believe, of course, that in this matter we could have acted more promptly and more diligently. Because the end of the legislature will come, and the registration of the special employment centres, the fulfilment of this initiative, will continue to see no light. And I really don't think it's that complicated. I believe that, as has been said here, models exist, experiences exist. All you have to do is consult them and adapt them here. I don't think it's that complicated. That is why we are talking about deadlines at the time and we are tabling an amendment on deadlines, but in this case we have not tabled any amendments, because we believe that, if you were already right to be the initiative a year ago, you now have even more. And what we have to do is... And we are going to vote in favour, in favour of this initiative, but, beyond talking here, what I think needs to be done is working there, that is, in Lanbide, and that at once this sees the light. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u64	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Zulaika, representing the EH team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u65	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning and welcome to the representatives of the congregation and to all who have come with them. Today we are talking about other collective people in a state of weakness in society, people who have a functionary distraction. Most of the time, not by their insufficiency, but by the walls which they find in society. The rate of jobs for people with functional differences is very low. It's only 24% and those who get a job pay 14% less than the rest of the staff. They don't have a chance to find a normal job. It is very difficult, though it is often more competitive or more competitive than the other workers, when they develop a common work. They find the walls everywhere, both in private and public. However, there are tools on the rule frame to turn that status around. There are laws about it, but the law does not generally conform to it, and, perhaps, even if it did, it could be wanting. In 1982 the LISMI law, which is so badly named, was admitted. There must be workers who have more than 50 employees and work for private and public organizations with 2 percent functional débertsity. The question is not only that this number is not exceeded and very low; Since this law was accepted, it took years to realize that it didn't work. And then they gave the corporations another chance to hire the administrations with the centers of various services or special employments so that they wouldn't make it up to 2 percent. Instead of making more inspections and placing more fines, the companies were free from fulfilling the first with the second option. These people were reduced by the law of being an ordinary occupation. You know, the funk rules in this line, too. We have frequently brought the Chamber to this discussion of 6/2008 Eves, the Autonomy Administration, and the contract of their public sector, which regulates certain social considerations, environmental and other public policies. specifically its 4th and 9th appendages are connected to today's subject. As we were recently informed at a meeting at the Eplegu board, the level of the execution of that resolution is very little. When they close the doors to be a job in a regular trade, special employment centers are a choice for people who have functional débertysity to have a job. It's the kind of corporations or associations that are within the social economy, among their principles, that people take priority and prefer social interest to capital, to promote local development, and in the case of special employment centres, to give people a chance of work in a weak state. EHG is supposed to be pushing a lot of people like that. Such formulas must be established above the precepts which place the capital in their centre. However, we wish to make it clear that neither the special employment centers nor the centers of employment can be used to promote public services, nor to destroy public employments. We will always oppose the decisions which proceed from that Illo. And, on the other hand, we can clearly see that special employment centres, as well as employment companies, must be encouraged and assisted, if the workers who work there are always worthy conditions of work. It must be the same choice, not the cases we know, where you charge less than the minimum work date, even if you work all the time. Returning to the discussion of today, as the party proposer has shown, when creating new special jobs centers, they must be registered in the official census. But that census has not been created. Since then we have the jurisdiction of active politics, we could not create or enumerate any of these kinds, these new characters have been left in a limbo. If the fun really believes in socialnomy, and really thinks that these companies need to be pushed, they can't get in the way again and again. Last year a clear order was accepted, and we asked you to create a census. But it's been over a year and it's not done yet. There are formulas waiting for such new enterprises to start, and the census. To give an example, for example, that the Arrival Association has set up here today to give the psychic illnesses to those in the Oarso, for example, a chance of employment. They don't have the chance to ask for scholarships because they're not registered. Of course, because the census isn't created. And that's sad, yes. It is so difficult to start a kind of initiative, and, when they come, instead of making it easier for them to make it easier for them. That's unacceptable, and that has to be solved. The motion described by PSE has not been corrected since the EH Collectation, because it was the same last year, and the one that was accepted last year was part of the middle-class agreement with the EH Collectors. So, with our correction, we were trying to get them to create the census, to interact with the corporations and unions, or to contribute with them. We also see that this is the case. So today we're gonna go for that reason too. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Passing on the answers, Mr. Ichaso, your word is yours. [[Applause]] Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u67	First, I must recall that the first parliamentary agreement is dated 13 February 2014. This goes for over a year, almost two. Mr. Aiartza, you tell me that I speak of these things but I don't set examples. They just put one on him. Here's an example. Here's an example. If that's not what I'm saying, it's that they're citizens waiting for the government to put on their batteries, take action...! That he's not even worth the budget wild card, because it doesn't cost money. This doesn't cost money. It is done, the registration is enabled, and those who meet the conditions are registered. And he gives me all the data again. And another thing that they also do, with quite... anyway, I don't know, is talk about the existing model. That it is, that it is model, that it is exemplary, that we have special employment centres, but do not take refuge in that status quo to veto the possibility of others joining that constellation of special employment centres having an interest, wanting, needing and having reason to do so. I am going to tell you, Mr Aiartza, that when we say that the active employment policies the Government is burying them, I did not want to enter into other matters that are not the subject of the debate, but I will simply tell you that in addition to this problem, this delay with the registration of the special employment centres, in employment guidance we are empty, because the Government has forgotten to draw up a decree in anticipation of the expiration of the agreements with collaborating entities, so that they are now without guidance, without an enabling agreement for guidance. The ESC draws the attention of the Government because it intends to abolish the relief contract. Finally, I have already mentioned from local employment plans that a budget year has been smoked, with all the importance of active employment policy in local and regional plans. So, that, which may seem, as I say, electoralist, propagandistic, those are the facts. They are contrasted, real facts, and history is the only thing that neither God can change. That's there, and there's no other way to change the genesis of what's happened so far. More examples you want? You were present at the commission on September 28, 2015, where Lanbide's director of services said that Lanbide's registration of special employment centres..., and then you were asked, "Hey, but is there a registration?". "No, man, it's that in internal order... But, well, we call it that, but it's not a record." I mean, it was also an explanation of the Marx brothers' cabin. Indeed, Mr Aiartza, it is true, we have to be less flattered, we have to be less theorizing and more political action, which in this case is the responsibility of the Government. They believe at once, and do not walk with circumloquies. Because, of course, in that transaction, Mrs Zulaika, the participation of trade unions and social partners was introduced on her proposal. Well, this is serving the government as an excuse to do nothing, because it turns out that, after informing us all the times that you have been asked that yes, that you were consulting with the agents and the unions, last day the counselor ends saying yes, that this is already going on today, but that now we have to give a hearing to all those. Well, I don't know what they've been doing all the time! I mean, if they've spoken before... If they are to be heard, I suppose it will be a procedural matter, but the deadlines would have to be shortened. If you've spoken before, because I really don't know if you've spoken to anyone. Because you asked them who, and you did not answer the written question: "Yes, we have spoken." But they say, "With whom?". "With some." In short – I'm not going to extend anymore – they create that record, there are people waiting. Not just those who are here, but extramurals from this Parliament, I am sure there are other initiatives that are calling for it. And they also fulfil, even if it is only, in the end, a little coherence, with their own dictates, with their own commitments. I have read before documents, very pompous documents, huge bricks that talk about what the government is going to do in this legislature. We're in the last minute, and we don't know anything about this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u68	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Adarz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u69	Thanks again. Mrs. Llanos, you ask us two questions: What has been done so far? How has this competition been developed? I gave him a list. It is clear, of course, that what is being done in the whole area of active employment policies, and in this specific area, is clear. That's what he's doing. Is the comment on the fulfillment of a specific question, in this case of the scope of the registration, and is it comparing a thirty-six-year breach of an organic law of the State (and no, do not tell me that I am a complainer and those things that you usually say), a thirty-six-year breach of an organic law of the State, with a few months in the delay of...? If we can understand it this way, because, in fact, progress is being made on this issue. So, I don't think it's to be picky with a few and discriminating with ourselves, much less. You have no comparison, Mrs. Llanos. Mr. Itxaso, put on the batteries. The Government has the batteries on. Take refuge. Don't take refuge anywhere. There he sees the list I've read to him, and I couldn't read it all. To the paralysis of observation, he told us, and these things of great texts. There's evidence: there's no paralysis. No paralysis, no data. And there is another evidence: that there is indeed observation, and there is still observation. It is our compass, the determination of areas of improvement. You were also speaking to us the other day in the interpellation of a very interesting question, which is the severity of judgment. I mean, "I'm going to be very strict with you, counselor." I believe that in this question of the severity of the trial you also have two criteria: a criterion towards the present Government, which determines or ends up sentencing paralysis by the observation, and a different criterion or a different measure towards the former Government, towards the López Government. Mrs. Llanos told you, in that inquiry to which you referred (we didn't tell her, Mrs. Llanos told her) "Why didn't you do it? Why didn't you do it?". (I would remind Mrs Llanos at this time that they also supported that government.) And you were answering with an appointment, I'm going to read it to you. And it relates to something that you referred to in your second intervention, the political action that belongs to the Government, that political action that belongs to the Government. And you said, "We didn't do it because there was an opposition that said he was going to rule from it, and he didn't raise this question." It's a date for you. Come on, they were a government with a lot of initiative. That I would call paralysis, and in this case certain, because they did nothing, they did not make decree. Certain paralysis by sublimation. That is, you evaporated, you passed from the solid state to the gasser directly as soon as you entered the government. In any case, you were also talking about satisfaction: "There will come a time when the government will give us satisfaction." I tell you that moment is near. Our group has tabled an amendment to the whole, as you know, of the text of the motion tabled by the Socialist Party, and, although we agree on the first of the points, not on the second. As is well known, over the past three years the processes of the existing calls for support for employment with disabilities have improved substantially, normalizing payments linked to the grant orders and shortening their deadlines. In this regard, in this 2015 financial year, all disability employment aid orders are published, and several of them are resolved in their entirety. That is why we feel that the wording of our second point is more appropriate in the face of this approach of retroactivity, which in our view is insecure. Much of them are resolved in their entirety. In other words, we are talking about a Lanbide budget for people with disabilities of €36,350,000, which in this case benefits 10,715 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u70	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Mist must not speak. Basque Popular, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u71	Yes, Madam President, if I may, from the seat, because I will be very brief. Look, your intervention has been a clear example of how different prisms you see things when it is done by the Basque Government that when it is done not only by the central government, but also by the Basque Government when it was not managed by you. Look, it is true that I told Mr Itxaso what I said at the time, and you will not be able to say at least to this Member of Parliament that it is not demanding, or that it was not at the time with Mr López's government, and that it does not put things in front of the Socialist Party at the moment. But it's just that you're already getting over them. It's just that they're getting over them already. Because it is true that since the active employment policies were transferred they did not create the register, but that you take longer and still do not create it. They still don't create it. I think, really, it doesn't have to be that complicated, because there are models. It's just that you're not starting out of nowhere! It's not about discovering the philosophical stone. That there are examples in other communities! That they do not need to carry the Euskadi is different to the registration of the special employment centres! That by creating a similar thing, which allows those who are not in the register at the moment to be, and in this way to be able to access aid such as those already constituted, I think that would be sufficient. I really think sometimes the best is the enemy of the good. And in this case... come on, I don't know what the record will be like after, but I think they'd settle for something that wasn't so great but that was done already. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u72	Thank you, Miss Llanos. And finally, the representative of the EH Collect Group, Mrs. Zulaika.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u73	Well, just to ask that in this case you fulfill that mandate that is going to come out of here today, and also to provide other special employment centres that so far have not been able to apply for such aid (which are very important to them, to start up their activity and to help people with functional diversity), well, now they can do so quickly and they can at least play with the same opportunities as the rest of the special employment centres.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Forth point on the theme list: "Pull up the legal proposal of the legislatures around the self-consumption regulations of the electric power. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Maeztun, representative of the EH Group, has the word to introduce and defend himself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u75	Yes, good noon to all. Thank you, Mr. President. The threat is complete. In August, this year's August, when we proposed to the law as our own, the policy of self-consumption was a threat, but unfortunately, in October this year, this threat has become reality, because the government of the Populative Party has gradually produced a royal proof of electrical self-consumption. And what is the purpose of this regulation? There is only one purpose in this regulation, and it is to guarantee the profits or profits of the larger electric companies. This is the sole aim of this royal formation: In our case, we're in charge of the Empress business that makes Monopoly or electric olipolis. And how do they want to satisfy this end, or achieve this end? The electric self-sumption, in our houses, in our buildings, in our councils, hindering, strengthening, and costing the self-consumption that we can perform in our public buildings. Today, and the result of this royal procession, you must be one of the most retractable energy in the power of self-consumption, you must be very convinced once and for all that you can do it, and you must have too much money to have to spare so that you can do it because it has cost too much. It is not only that a pattern, founded on fossil fuels, subsists. Besides, this royal tradition is also a classic, because at this moment you have to spend a lot of money in order to spend self-consumption so that you can make the installation and, of course, wait a lot of years to get back in order to recover that investment. Why all this? Well, especially for one reason. Because the companies that make an electric monopoly, and the politicians who work for them, know very well that there are opportunities at this moment, real opportunities at the level of Europe and other places in the world, that our homes are really real to be converted into photobolta parks, and our buildings to become photostatic parks, public buildings to retractable parks. And a small, very small competition, but to convert competition into a central model of electrons, and fossil fuels, to make competition. I mean, self-sumption, electrical self-consumption, power-rectimating auto-consumption, because it supposes a step in the model change to remodel from fossil fuel-based model. Even because he supposes an important step in self-determination. Not only as a people of independence, as a citizen, because in a more essential medium, in energy, we might be more independent if we were able to transfer self-consumption. And that's very well known by companies and politicians working for them. They want a centralized model, centralized production, centralized distribution, and centralized electrical energy transport. What for? In order to continue with their business. Of course, the electric auto-consumption, with reorganized energy, also leads us to a more ecological model. Well, that's not what they want. And they've made a royal decree on a 44-page that can't be read. Well, you can read it. They have taken out a decree of the 44 pages which is very difficult to understand. What do they get? Well, as I said before, it cost self-consumption, with a lot of tramits, with new requests, plus a tax. "El impoesto be so." Because right now, you can make self-consumption, but it's much cheaper to continue with the current model, to remain connected to the network. Regardless of whether this network is supplied with gas or coal thermal power plants, nuclear power plants, independently, it is much cheaper to follow this model based on fossil fuels, this polluting and centralized model, in the hands of five companies, than to put a plate on its roof, on its terrace, on its garden or on the roof of a community building. It is much cheaper at the moment, thanks to this royal decree – which is precisely what you are looking for – than to put on a plaque. Why? Because a new tax is invented, the so-called "sun tax"; which, translated into a subject that we could understand, to an example that we could understand much easier, to have a garden and some tomatoes, supposes that I have to pay the State for planting some tomatoes and for consuming some tomatoes. Why? Because I'm an insidiary. Because there's a network of supermarkets, that for those people who can't have garden and plant and eat their own tomatoes there are those supermarkets, that can give those other people. So, I'm an insolidary, for planting and eating my own tomatoes. That's the real electric self-consumption decree. With an exception that has now been put, after the allegations, and is that if I plant or consume ten or less tomatoes only paid for planting them, not because I eat them. Thank you very much. Why did you do that? If you hire 10 kilowattt power, or less than 10 kilowattts, then I don't pay my self-consuming energy. Of course, that's logical. But of course I pay for the fixed costs. In fact, I have to buy two new counters and an endless list of tramites, an endless list of costs. But there I don't know for this royal decree. To make it even more difficult for us to produce and consume our own energy by renewable methods, they also prohibit us from doing so in a Community way. Returning to the example of tomatoes, they forbid my community of owners that we may have a community garden. Totally forbidden. The possibility of sharing self-consumption and self-production facilities is prohibited. That's what the royal decree does. And, by the way, it is impossible or does not capture the possibility of the net balance sheet. That is, the electricity that we can produce in our facilities, if at some point we are not consuming it and we have leftovers, we have to give it to the network. We have to give it to Iberdrola or Endesa. We have to give it to him free of charge. Or, if not, we have to become entrepreneurs, become small businesses and make VAT returns, discharge ourselves in the tax on economic activities, etc., etc. That is, the perfect formula for no one to think about making self-consumption and putting a plaque on their roof. I said this was a threat. And the villagers were mobilized. And in the state it was more than 200,000 signatures combined against it. 200,000 signatures, thousands against this population. And five for this company. What did the government do? Five to enpres. Who won again? Electric Oligolipolis. Why? There can be several reasons. I have one. 200,000 citizens don't guarantee a fixed position for a minister or a power director in an electrician. These five companies can assure him of his law, when he has finished his commission, of a fixed employment. Because it is also behind this that one of the most important evils in politics is at the moment: the evil of the spinning doors. Again, instead of attending to the general interest, the politicians were once more instead of serving, instead of again making laws and regulations for a few very small economic interests. The attack, then, as I have explained before, is in every respect. Because it insists on a reorganising pattern, because it prevents an independent model, and prevents a more ecological pattern. What for? A few companies to make their profit. It's a big revenue, by the way. If we see the latest report of the Euscal Organization of energy, our home bill has been built 60%. Someone here has got 60% of their pay? On the street I'm sure wages haven't been raised 60%. The electric company's snippets are. For the last six years, 60%. So it's a big business and that's why they try to keep politicians in their hands. What about it? Now, in front of that we introduced another legally, and we've agreed with the Socialist Party, as well as other members of the iguy or middle-way. First, I say, except for the popular party, because in this case all of you, all of you, have no correction, ask for one thing which we all asked for, and this royal decree is to be abandoned. And a direct demand for the State Government: to create a new regulator, to encourage self consumption, to promote self-consumption, and, independently of self-consumption, to promote self-consumption with pure balance and retractal energy. This request is logical and necessary. And that's where we get it. But what after that? You ask the state to cancel that royal decree and nothing more? Just folded your arms and... How bad are they in Madrid, what bad laws do they make in Madrid? Not really. We have options to deal with this. That they're complicated? Of course I am. Is there going to be difficulties? Of course I am. We saw them talking about Facking and we're watching. But does that mean we shouldn't try? Of course not! At first we required him to make a law of his own, or a regulation of his own. We have suffered this request, and we demand the government to report in six months' time, to present itself to you, to know what the consequences of this new regulation are, and what action we can make to resist. It's logical, not because we're independent and because we want a proper frame regulator of our own in this case. Of course we're independent. But that's not why it's a logical request, because besides telling the people what the bad are in Madrid, we have to provide solutions. And we believe that a government has that responsibility and that's why we're asking it. From that point on, we also ask the Basque Organization of energy to change the subsidies which are now in use, and to change the consequences of this new regulation, in order to prevent them. And then, finally, two more requests come directly to the legislature. And it's, on the one hand, that the power that we're currently running ends, anyway. Whether it is possible to have conclusions during the next meeting, at least before the end of this legislation, that we may conclude some consequences from this legislature. And lastly, we ask the Arlias to intervene in this matter, and the other, because the rights of consumers are also violated, as we believe, with this legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u76	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u77	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to you all. Indeed, as far as the actual self-consumption decree is concerned, we all know the context, and I think we also know the views of the different parliamentary groups. On December 13, 2013, we discussed another non-law proposal that was also originating from EH Bildu, concerning this same issue. That day the agreement was backed by the Basque Nationalist Party, EH Bildu and the Basque Socialist Party. In that transaction, we adopted five points, two of which related to requesting action from the Government of Spain, and two of which called for action that depended exclusively on the Basque Government. Since that vote the most serious thing has happened: the royal decree is already a reality (because at that time we were talking about drafts); and, on the other hand, the finding that here the commitment of the Basque Government was only there, began and ended in the signing of that transactional amendment, in the demand of the Rajoy Government, forgetting what affects its own demands. Because point 4 of that agreement said: "In the event that the actual decree mentioned comes into force, the Basque Government will analyse concrete proposals to promote the self-consumption of electricity". We understood who we agreed that day with the group that supports the Government that there was a willingness and commitment to do something. But once again they're signatures that never go anywhere. The full agreement was referred, as requested, to the Congress of Deputies, the Senate, the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism and the Presidency of the Government of Spain, nothing more and nothing less, telling them of the great agreement that we had decided here. And of all this, apart from goodism, nothing. And there we are on December 13, 2013 and right there, or perhaps worse, we find ourselves today. In the opinion of my parliamentary group, this is the worst possible scenario, and we hope that with the change of government in December it will never be implemented, because the PSOE undertakes to repeal this royal decree. In view of the above, and having read the original proposal, we have made an amendment, we have now made an amendment to the non-law proposal of EH Bildu. Because what is unquestionable is that all groups, with the exception of the People's Party, reject the real decree and we also say it clearly, but we also understand that this Parliament cannot remain in the rejection, without demanding from the Basque Government that it should act, because there is no reason not to do so. For this reason, we say that it is indeed right, as I say, that we all reject the real decree that comes from the feared Madrid, which is responsible for everything, and it is very well the commitment that we all political groups have taken to repeal it after the elections in Euskadi, but we must ask ourselves: And in Euskadi what? To what is Urkullu's government committed? What are the next steps to take? Because we understand that the rejection of the royal decree must lead to an implicit bet on a concrete energy policy, which is what nobody knows today. The central Government has built an insurmountable wall to prevent the development of energy self-consumption, and we said so before the adoption of this royal decree regulating the administrative, technical and economic conditions of the modes of supply of electricity with self-consumption and production with self-consumption. I said this myself, as you can see in the minutes of that debate; we say and say this to all political parties, consumer associations, environmental associations, business associations, trade unions and social movements that sign society's commitment to civic right to energy self-consumption. The Socialist Group fully accepts the manifesto, and therefore requests the Basque Government not to remain in the words; that Basque citizens want facts, and on issues such as energy, the Urkullu Government is defined by self-congratulation. The royal decree implies that, in addition to paying tolls to the system like any other consumer, those who self-consumer also pay a sun tax – as Mr Maeztu said – extra, for the same right to use the network as the rest of consumers, to power and to self-consumer energy. And today, as on 13 December 2013, we have tried to reach an agreement between the groups that we are part of this House. During the negotiation of this non-legislative proposal to try to reach agreement, one aspect of concern to the Basque Nationalist Party is whether or not it applies in households less than one specific consumption, which, according to the Basque Nationalist Party, do not pay this tax to the sun. It is true that the legislation establishes special conditions for the application of the tax in domestic facilities, but the interpretation made by the Basque Nationalist Party of this provision is not the correct one, and once again an excuse is sought for not reaching an agreement, when what this agreement implies are commitments of concrete action by the Basque Government. In addition to all that, the real decree goes against the recommendations of the European Community: a directive on the internal market in electricity, and a second directive on promoting the use of energy from renewable sources. Self-consumption, contrary to what some believe, does not destabilize the system, but on the contrary, is beneficial to it. The Socialist Group, like the most understood groups in this area, speaks of self-consumption as solidarity, reduces the price of electricity, generates competition in the electricity market, contributes to the maintenance of the system as any other consumer. Spain is the only country in the world with a self-consumption regulation designed to prevent its development rather than promote it. And, although everything we can say about the royal decree reflects a broad agreement in this House, and we could have stayed with a compromise amendment that had a single point and, therefore, the People's Party would have been left alone, we understand that, as I said earlier, we should not feed self-congratulation. The Basque Government can do more than it does, of course, in energy (and in other things, but also in energy). It could enter into commitments that go beyond what is written on a paper or signed in a compromise amendment. Our level of self-government allows us to act beyond looking to Madrid to look for the culprit of all evils. When the Basque Government does not want to act, it is always the responsibility of the central Government. When Euskadi feels threatened by the action of the Spanish Government, the Nationalist Party raises its voice, sometimes even recklessly, but when it comes to always taking responsibility for balloons outside. We're talking about the Statute, we're talking about the competitions... That's right, the PNV is a specialist in which, when you are interested in getting your head out of this self-government, you seek the way – because they exist – to be able to develop our own skills, and on the subject of energy we could also do so. The Basque Socialists, as I say, are against the royal decree, and in Madrid we have acted accordingly. But we are in favour of the Basques doing something in defence of renewable energies, beyond big speeches and big newspaper headlines that do not agree with the decisions that the Governing Council then takes. The Basque nationalists stand, it is true, against the royal decree adopted by the Rajoy government, but from that what? And, having said that, what will the Basque Government do to act accordingly and protect those Basque citizens who want to develop self-consumption? Seeing the amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party to this particular point; reading the answers given to this spokesman by the responsible councillor, by Mrs Tapia; listening to the statements of the Lehendakari in concrete acts, however much he talks about the Euskadi's top ten in renewable energies, which I would like him to explain to me; attending the energy presentation when it is convened, and listening to the subsequent interventions of the participants, the Socialist Group comes to a clear conclusion: the government of the Lehendakari Urkullu is not going to do anything. The government of Rajoy will be left in total criticism, when Pedro Sánchez governs it will be the total criticism of Pedro Sánchez's government, and nothing here. It is always the Government of Spain, the state that is so bad that it wants to end the Basque self-government. We understand that it is not acceptable that all the amendments of the Basque Nationalist Party always go in the same direction: guilty of everything, Madrid, and, with regard to our competences, we demand those which we do not have, but we do not develop those which we have. That's what you always do. Having said that, the compromise amendment that Mr Maeztu has explained that we have signed, we understand that he has points on which perhaps all groups at one point or another could agree. The royal decree, as I say, is something that we reject all groups, obviously less the People's Party, and the rest of the points... Finally, calling for the presentation to be completed before the end of the legislature, taking into account when we started it and seeing what is left of the legislature, does not seem so much to ask. Asking the Ararteko to position himself on this issue, as on many other issues, we understand that it is not so much to ask. What we believe is that in this of self-consumption, as in many other issues, there are political parties that stand up and say clearly what they think, that we can share it or not, as is the case with the People's Party (I do not share its position, but at least it says it from the front, it is not wrong), then we have other groups, that we have also positioned ourselves when we have had the opportunity to do so, and then we have the Basque Nationalist Party, that we do not know, does not answer, and that they always want to stay in that position of half-pensionists: we say that we do not want the real decree of Madrid, because they are bad bad, but when we ask them "Very well, we will reject this, we will repeal it when we can. And what are you going to do to act in the opposite situation?", then nothing of that. And we are faced with the thesis that this draft is no longer a draft, there is a clear regulation, and we are faced with a situation in which Basque citizens organized in associations competent in this matter are calling for concrete action. And what we know is that you, as I said, nothing at all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u78	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Misst, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u79	Yes, thank you, President. First let's hear what the other groups say, because it turns out that the other groups vote in favour, I don't know if all or some of them. In any case, these furious attacks on the rest of the groups do not know if what you are looking for is that some of them actually vote in favour of the initiative or finally vote against it, because it gives the impression that when you two vote for certain initiatives, what you are ultimately trying to do is not go out. But, well, in any case, perhaps if you allow points to be voted on, then it is also possible that any of the points will come forward, although I may say that not all of them. But anyway. And in relation to this issue, of course, it is a very interesting issue, and in relation to the four initial points that Mr Maeztu claimed, we have to say that in principle we saw both the first and the fourth, with regard to the withdrawal of the royal decree and with regard to the increase in the aid referred to therein. In any case, we will continue to listen to each other's arguments, and then say something about the transactional that you have signed. Indeed, around self-consumption, which is a technique of energy production based mainly on renewables, there is a very interesting debate on the fundamental problems of energy policy. The energy system is a complex one, where there are no panacea or magic solutions; what is at stake is to make a policy as balanced as possible, in which environmental and economic costs are the lowest possible. Self-consumption, within that marimagnum that is the world of energy production, we think it has to take its place. Because what we don't understand is what's behind this kind of constant squabble, this permanent refusal to regulate properly something that is already regulated in many places in the world. Well, we do not understand, or perhaps we do understand why the Spanish Government maintains its postulates on these issues. What is at heart is an inflexible defence of an energy model that has proved its failure, an energy model where it harms both the small consumer and the large consumer, with very damaging effects on industry as well. In addition, there is a mentality problem, this of paying for something that you don't want or don't need, that would be that rate to anyone who has a self-consumption facility and uses it. This is what we called in the Congress of Deputies as energy feudalism. It's a middle-aged tax, where people were forced to pay the local lord a fee because the local lord had a mill. The scheme is basically the same, it is the same: you are forced to pay a fee, a tax, because there is an electrical distribution network, even if one does not use it at that time. Mentality, therefore, clearly feudal. The result is that Spain continues to have a disastrous energy policy, and that all that is proposed by innovation, competition and competitiveness is always faced with this closed defense of a business model that from the point of view of consumers is a failure, because it has no pass to accept that certain interests or certain business model is the axis of energy policy. Self-consumption is a technique to develop and employ, because Spain is also a very suitable country for this. This is indeed what we think. And it is about unifying advances in technology, in computer science, in urban renewal (there are new models of cities), to produce what important social actors, such as the Renewables Foundation and others, have proposed, which is to turn cities and urban areas not only into energy consumers, but also into producers, where self-consumption should have a great role. What we propose is that within this energy mix self-consumption has the maximum role it can play in economic terms of profitability and efficiency. This is what we propose. What is not reasonable, what is irrational, is to refuse, always to prevent through this feudal, medieval, pre-liberal path, to put constant barriers of access, dissuasive rates, abusive penalties, which we have been suffering the whole legislature, so that the productive model effectively modernizes. At the end of what it is is an obsolete model, this is what we have, an obsolete model, which in a colloquial way we have framed in this concept of "capitalism of friends", where there are privileged relations with companies, for which it is much more comfortable to have good relations with political power than to strive to compete and innovate. It is a good example that Mr Maeztu has set in relation to tomatoes, because it is the example that we put in the Congress of Deputies. [[Barres]] Actually, it's like I plant a tomato in my house and I'm forced to pay a toll because there's a shopkeeper who sells tomatoes. Mr Maeztu has adapted the example, but it is indeed a good example that simplifies very well what we are talking about. We therefore share the arguments that have been put forward so far on this issue. The Renewables Foundation has said very interesting things in recent times in relation to this matter. The Renewables Foundation recently stated that both industry and SMEs and households can take an active role in the electricity sector, moving from a passive position of energy buyers to active producers and self-consumers of renewable energy. Indeed, self-consumption is a key instrument for the democratization of energy as a citizens' right in general, and not just of those with the greatest purchasing power, as implied by the Government's real self-consumption decree, which consequently seeks to tax and regulate it in a dissuasive manner. The royal decree – said this foundation – "is a contempt for best practices, which can only be understood by the submission to the speculative interests of the Spanish electric oligopoly, in an attempt to postpone the generalization of renewables, and in this case the energy democratization and the empowerment of civil society". We do share all these arguments perfectly explained by the Renewables Foundation. Although we had tabled an amendment, we are obviously against this royal decree, we are firmly opposed to it, and we hope that the next Government of Spain will repeal this decree. Therefore, we share some of the points contained in the transactional. The fundamental, the main, the first of them. It gives the impression, in relation to the rest of the points, that it was included in that transactional, that what was intended with them was that this initiative did not go forward. In the second point, it is proposed to urge the Basque Government to submit to Parliament a report analysing the impact of the above-mentioned legislation and the possibilities of developing a regulatory framework of its own to promote the implementation of net self-consumption and distributed electricity production. We believe that there is no competence for this. In fact, no one has done so so far, nor did the Socialist Party push it when it ruled, with which we understand that the Socialist Party recognizes that we have no competence to do so. And with regard to what needs to be done – and this is a debate that is constantly repeated, when the Spanish Government adopts laws that affect us and that we do not like – I believe that what basically needs to be done is one of these two things: either to change government, or to force this government to change those concrete policies. Otherwise, we would be in a permanent process of independence from all those governments that make decisions that we do not like, and we do not really think that this is the solution. We believe that we have no competence, and that, therefore, what needs to be done is to change those policies or to change the Government. We agree with the increase in aid proposed. And in relation to what is proposed about the paper, we hope that this paper will work as hard as possible, beyond that UPyD is not in it, because the work is accumulated for us. But, in the end, it is a matter of this presentation gathering more often, and perhaps there by January, so it can make its contributions. And in relation to what is asked of Ararteko, then, I do not know if it is perhaps something superfluous. In any case, here the important thing is to oppose the real decree, to change the energy policy that has been implemented in Spain in recent years, to change those policies, to change the government. And I think that's the most important thing. And the Basque Government should do everything it can, indeed, of course it does. The Basque Government, which does everything it can, but the competences are also perfectly assessed, and in many cases, as in this one, there is no such possibility, we think. Therefore, I share some of the points of that transactional that you have signed, as I believe the other groups do, or at least the Basque Nationalist Party. But anyway, let's listen first to see what the Jeltzale spokesman tells us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u80	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Carro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon. On Saturday, October 10, 2015, this royal decree was published in the Official Gazette of the State, a royal decree of self-consumption that the Government of Spain has taken two years to approve, for the great rejection it has had. The so-called sun tax. In mid-July 2015, Gure Energia, the Basque node of the Platform for a New Energy Model, proposed a text for us to proceed with an institutional declaration, since after the Minister's statements, where he said he planned to take it to the Council of Ministers on 31 July, this platform wanted to give a press conference at the Congress of Deputies on 27 July, before the imminent adoption of the Royal Decree. Well, because of the refusal of a group here in the Basque Parliament (not ours), this statement was not made. Faithful to the Platform's commitment to a New Energy Model, our transactional amendment is the same as the one that transferred the platform to us for approval at the end of July 2015. We would therefore ask for the vote on points, and we would vote in favour of this first point. We've already been e-mailed. We also want to thank both EH Bildu and the Socialist Party in advance, because we have tried to reach a compromise since yesterday, we have been working on some texts, and, well, in the end we have not reached an agreement, because we had discrepancies in some of the issues that I am going to go on to develop. But I want to thank you. Well, to this text that in July added a majority agreement, on 17 August EH Bildu presented his own text (a text that he did not even bother to correct, despite being presented on 17 August and today is 29 October), and in which he says that the Basque Government can do everything. I mean, you can withdraw this royal decree, you haven't, and even make another one. That is what they have in the amendment tabled by EH Bildu and which has not been worthy to correct so far, thanks to this compromise. I believe that EH Bildu should take an example here of this platform for a new energy model, which in its text calls on the Government of Spain, the competent authority in this electrical regulation, and not the Basque Government. But, well, to ask for the delay, you did have time. It would have been good, then, that it would not have seemed that the Basque Government is always doing things wrong, and from August to October it is public and notorious that this is going to stay for the historical. Well, what is this Basque government doing in favour of renewable energy? Facts. Well, then, taking into account the government program, and taking into account that, as I said, at this current juncture and in a country like ours, which is highly energy-consuming, without only natural resources and with a strong dependence on the outside, savings and efficiency become our greatest energy resource, in the government program, in its first commitment to employment and people, in economic development and competitiveness, in line 1.8: "An energy strategy for renewable energy". And in this last year the facts are as follows. That, while the Government of Spain is issued by Brussels in October this year, by the Building Efficiency Directive published five years ago and the Government of Spain has not transposed to the legal order, the Basque Government publishes last year Decree 226/2014 on the certification of the energy efficiency of buildings; in March 2015 it publishes the regulation of the control and registration of energy efficiency certificates, and on 14 October 2015 it publishes the Decree on the energy sustainability of the public sector of the Autonomous Community of Basquedi, so that the public administration itself is the tractor. It regulates, as stated in Article 1, savings, energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy in the public sector of the Basque Autonomous Community. Then the Basque Autonomous Community, which is the public administration, is a tractor in the use of renewable energies. But what else are we talking about today? And I believe that here, too, I would like to publicly thank EH Bildu and the Socialist Party for not using the argument we used in the compromise communiqués, that this Basque government could legislate, and they gave us the example of the Community of Murcia, of how it was a reference since 2006. I am grateful that you did not mention this subject, as we are going to point out, because of the big hole that was going to put in it, and I think it would get into a good EH Bildu mess. Well, we're talking about electrical regulation and the European electrical system, yes. Because Euskadi is not an electric island. Euskadi is a country with a lot of industry, with many electricity networks and very interconnected with the north of Spain and France. Electricity flows across Europe; excessive consumption at a point of demand more energy. And we have already explained this more than once, the longline at European level: that a longline full of water, as soon as we move it to one side, that need of energy forces that..., quickly the energy we can consume, either from Norway or from anywhere. And we see the example also in this month of October, but nine years ago what happened to the Germans when they decided to cut off the production lines of the Rhine, from the south, which had consumption. They changed the time at which they had to cut that supply, and fell into a chain, and 5 million Europeans ran out of light from Germany to Barcelona, passing through Italy, France, Portugal, Belgium... And that is and they have it in any document. Then we're very intertwined, and here in Euskadi more. How can we regulate from the Basque Country? From the Basque Country there is only one way to regulate, and is that in the Basque Statute, in Article 10, it has exclusive competence in the following matters: paragraph 11, production, distribution and transport of energy, when this transport – and here is the crux of the question – does not leave its territory and its exploitation does not affect another province or autonomous community. Because, as you well know, and it is clear from the Statute, in article 149 of the Spanish Constitution, the bases of mining and energy are the exclusive competence of the State. Then we can legislate, but as long as it does not leave its territory and its exploitation does not affect another province or autonomous community. So, what happens in Euskadi if we want to legislate in energy production, distribution and transport facilities? We will have to ensure that this transport does not leave our territory, from Euskadi, and that its use does not affect another province or autonomous community. Is this possible in Euskadi? Not for us. Why? Because, since we are a very industrialized country, with a very mesh network of transport and distribution, that we want to be efficient and connected with Europe, enhancing the Euroregion, how does all this marry with having within Álava a County of Treviño that belongs to another community? Shall we isolate him? How do you get married that we have a large surface bordering Navarra and abundant electric exchange lines? Don't we cooperate with them? Do we isolate them, too? Do we not work together and benefit from each other, because we have to comply that this transport does not leave their territory (Euskadi) and its exploitation does not affect another province or Autonomous community? How do we also marry that we have lines of distribution and electric transport exchange with Iparralde, a Basque-French area punished by the French Government with poor infrastructure also in the electricity system? Do we also cut off their electricity supply and isolate them, in order to ensure that this transport does not leave our territory (Euskadi) and that its use does not affect another province or autonomous community? And that interprets this for us, because the Spanish State interprets that it is another country and, therefore, of its exclusive competence. This is the only way to legislate within the Spanish State. So, what happens to the Murcian community? For the Murcian community is the only community that does have legislation, which is called the Renewable Energy and Savings and Energy Efficiency Act of the Murcia Region, and it does plan to promote self-consumption and all this. But how does he do it? The preamble to paragraph 8 says this if they read the 2006 law, which states that this law is enacted under article 10.1.28 of Organic Law 4/1982 of 9 June, approving the Statute of Autonomy for the Region of Murcia, by virtue of which the autonomous community has exclusive competence in the field of energy production, distribution and transport facilities when the transport does not leave its territory and its exploitation does not affect another autonomous community. Does this sound like anything to you? That is what we have read for the Statute of Autonomy! And that's why they legislate. Then why can Murcia do it? Because it is a single province, it is in a corner of the network, it does not limit with other countries like France, with few lines of distribution and electric transport, and all its industry is in Cartagena, in the sea, where there are no counties of Treviño, nor navarras, nor iparraldes, nor any of this. Well, I'm running out of time. More business. About the paper, Mrs. Red, don't lie. In the texts we are trying to make for the compromise, we have taken away from the beginning of the next session, which you do not like and have not admitted. Then don't tell me you don't want it at the next session. Be exact and true and just. In point 5, we are waiting for the new Government. I believe that to give work to Ararteko, taking into account what Mrs Red told us, that, well, Mr Sánchez will rule soon, and we are already in December, I believe that to charge Mr Lezertua with all this extra work... I think we could wait until January quietly. And don't worry, then we'd support him, too. And as for putting in more money or not putting in more money, just tomorrow the budgets arrive. We have the amendments and we have everything to follow this line and to put, as long as we comply with what expenditure is, with the money we have and as far as we can have. That's the time to discuss money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u82	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. Passing on the side of the teams that have no corrections, the representative of the Basque Potula, Mrs. lópez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u83	Yes, good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, we are talking about self-consumption, and I would like to say what self-consumption is, because of course we understand that self-consumption occurs when an electric consumer generates his or her own electrical energy with small, small power, generally photovoltaic, mini-wind or microgeneration installations. Does it have benefits for a consumer to consume energy self with this decree? Yeah, it does have benefits. Self-consumer doesn't pay for the energy it consumes. Save yourself having to buy it from the power grid. Therefore, it does not pay any of the taxes associated with self-consumption. It is not affected by sinks or possible price increases for fuels that alter light prices. And this decree includes two models of self-consumer: self-consumer with installation less than 100 kilowatts, and self-consumer with installation greater than 100 kilowatts. The installation less than 100 kilowatts can accumulate the energy that you don't use (you can accumulate it, you can't sell it), but it is that this self-consumer has two options: to be connected to the network, or not to be connected to the network. If it is not connected to the network, the cost is zero, it pays absolutely nothing. Nothing. The energy produced by the sun has no tax. He doesn't pay anything, because he doesn't use the network. Therefore, it is false and they know it (but, well, you have to use the multiples): the sun has no tax. Then, if it is connected to the network, it does not actually pay electricity, does not pay VAT, does not pay any activity tax. What do you pay? It pays the costs of the electrical system, like any consumer. You have a house, and you don't use the house, but you pay a few costs, right? Well, here's the same. And then, if you use transport... If you don't want to accumulate the energy you don't spend and you want to give it to the network, if you want, you'll use that transport. And the transport you use to take power from the network, if you want, but, of course, I think that's pretty basic. Energy has no tax, the energy of the sun. In addition, you know that the Royal Decree establishes two types of exemptions in relation to payments. First, for all self-consumers who have hired a power equal to or less than 10 kilowatts. That is, installation less than 100 kilowatts, which is connected to the network... less than 100 kilowatts not, 10 kilowatts or less, pays nothing. He doesn't pay anything. Is that clear? Nor do they pay for facilities that are exempt from payment in island and extra-penisular regimes, because, as we all know, producing electricity in these areas is four times more expensive than on the peninsula. We talk about the other model: self-consumer with installation of more than 100 kilowatts, which self-consumer and sells. You can sell or pour the leftover. He can't accumulate. And since they are sellers, they logically have to be registered in the Register of Electricity Producers. Of course! They're doing an economic activity! They will therefore have to be registered. Or not? What you say is that it is illegal, the report of the Council of State in relation to this royal decree not only endorses the content, but states that it is in accordance with the legal framework in force, and, of course, is fully supportive in all aspects that refer to what the self-consumer must pay for terms of toll, electricity costs or charges. Therefore, some legal endorsement has what you say. What would happen if the self-consumer connected to the network did not pay for the network and support services? If we did not contribute to financing the electricity system, it would be the rest of the consumers who would see the electricity bill increased to compensate for the smaller contribution of those who decide to consume themselves. This is a covert consumer subsidy, of course. This situation seems unfair to us, and even more so if we take into account that a self-consumer is expected to be a person with a certain economic capacity, taking into account that he has had the capacity to make an installation, and would be benefited at the cost of raising the bill of the rest of the consumers. What would happen to all those affected by energy poverty? I was just going to raise their bill! I think they contradict each other in their proposals. Some of you from other countries were spoken of. It is true that some countries in our environment, such as Italy, Denmark or Germany, have long encouraged the consumption of renewable energy sources, and it was a way to develop these technologies and be able to achieve the 2020 targets. However, as they already have a few years of experience, Denmark is reviewing the rules of self-consumption, and in part Germany is also reviewing the rules of self-consumption. And why? Because the system they had is causing a negative impact on the system, by stopping paying the self-consumers the cost of the network and premiums that are transferred to the rest of the consumers. Therefore, there is experience, and based on that experience we are legislating. A self-consumer connected to the network only replaces the service of producing electricity, but does not replace the service of guarantee of supply, so it must continue to pay it in full, if it is connected to the network and its contract is more than 100 kilowatts. There is no sun tax, it is not paid for the energy produced by the sun: it is paid for the guarantee of the supply of electricity. You have a house, only use it for two months... the rest of the months you pay a receipt. Why? Because you want to have the light always connected. He could be discharged and discharged for only two months, but if he wants to be connected, he has to pay. So, I think it's something that's understandable. He gave us the example of tomatoes and pears, or apples, or potatoes. Hey, no. Here what we are talking about is that the garden, whether rustic land or urban land, pays contribution. Why? For keeping the accesses, the sewer, etc., I don't care. You want to put the tomatoes in the garden, and those left over, not knowing if they're good or bad, if they have A or B, we eat the others. Hey, no. No way! Whether you pay the contribution, the contribution of the land, keep it empty, put tomatoes or not, but you will have to pay a contribution. And that's what you pay here, the contribution of the services you provide, so that you have access to the land, so that you don't get flooded and other circumstances. I see your source of information is, among others, The World, right? Because this is one of the thirty-eight comments the citizens supposedly made to an article of this decree. We think they've copied it, but they've copied it pretty badly. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u84	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing on the answers, Mr. Mazzu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u85	Electric self-consumption. I'll try to get the subject back together. And in this case, to answer Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz because he spoke about self-consumption. I don't know very well because I can answer Mr. Carro. Mrs López de Ocariz, well, you have put on the table a series of arguments, those that have been putting on the table the People's Party since the self-consumption draft began to work, and now it has already become a royal decree. And I'm going to counter that data with other data, and we'll see if you can counter it to me when you come here. Firstly, it is only paid for the fixed and not for the self-consumption energy for those self-producers and self-consumers with a contracted power of less than 10 kilowatts. And they also pay for the installer newsletter, and they also pay for the payment of the commitment, they also pay for the payment of the hook, they also pay for the technical design memory, they also pay for the request of connection to the electrical company, they also pay for the connection study, they also pay two specific accountants that are now established in this royal decree, and they also pay for the registration in the Register of Self-Consumption. And you'll say, "It's necessary to pay for it," but I'll give you another example. I don't buy a plate, I buy an efficient refrigerator, much more efficient than I have today. The result is the same as that of the plate, because the plate what it does is that my energy consumption is much more efficient, uniting, bringing the place of production to the place of consumption. For the refrigerator I don't have to pay any of these expenses and administrative requirements that I have to pay with the plate. Why with the badge? If it's the same! If I am achieving the same goal, and above all the most efficient refrigerator is subsidizing me by the Basque Government! Why with the plates? Because you know very well that this, if it applies as it is applying in other countries, for example in Germany, means removing market share in electricity generation from large companies. First of all. What you are not also saying is that this exception has been applied in a transitional way. Let's see who has the arrests of getting into a facility of this kind in a transitional way, not knowing when he's going to recover the expenses. What you do not say in that example, in your tomato garden and in your rustic land, that the contribution has to be paid, is that that contribution is paid to the public administration. Here we are paying the network to a private company, to private companies, not to the public administration. A network we're already paying for on the bill, a network we've already paid for by the citizens, and we're still paying for it on our bill. And we're paying it to private companies, not a contribution to a city hall, to a public administration. That's another big difference. Therefore, they had the possibility of having regulated the self-consumption as it is regulated elsewhere, with the possibility of making a net balance on the network, and they do not want to do so. And they don't want to because that's what electric companies want. And finally, Mr. Car. What do you think about self-consumption? Would you like to see more self-consumption in the Basque Autonomous Community? Would you like us to be able to deal with state regulations from here, so that we can boost self-consumption? I'd like you to talk to me about that. Because about the energy model, which we are already knowing, or we already know quite well which one you are defending, we will have time to debate, but about self-consumption. Very badly the royal state decree, you agree. And from there, what, there's nothing the Basque government can do? Can't a report be made to see what influence it has when it comes to boosting self-consumption in the Basque Autonomous Community? Can't it be done? Can we not accommodate the subsidies that exist today, seeing that there are going to be added costs, in order to alleviate those costs? Can't it be done? If that's what we're asking! And then simply, to end, apart from all this, but since you have taken it out – and it's not the first time I've been with any member of your party – for the respect I have for you, I think it's better not to leave you from this evident rostrum what your linguistic deficiencies are. Please read, in Basque, which is the language in which we register the initial proposal, what it says. Because it says "Eusko Legebiltzarrak Jaurlaritzari eskatzen gave the Spanish statue Gobernuari eskatzea". It is true that in Spanish there is an error in the translation. Translators and translators are human and human, and they have been wrong, but do not leave your linguistic deficiencies in evidence from this rostrum. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u86	Thank you... Okay, that's enough. Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u87	Yes, thank you, President. Well, as one of the arguments repeated by two political groups specifically to evade the package, once again, is the issue of competences, I think that in the end it is easier to set clear examples so that you can see how, when you want, you can. Because, look, Mr Carro, in the end – I specifically in some other debate I have already told you – we are faced with this old debate between competences and responsibilities, which is that you are left with the issue of competences, but it seems that what is not within the strict competence of the Statute should not be left to you either, is something you do not want to answer. Because it can be done. And I'm going to give you several examples. One, the Royal Decree of 2012, which spoke of the subject of rest, was something in which the Basque Government did not have competence, and it was the Government of Patxi López that made a decree to be able to act on this subject. It is true that he is paralyzed in the Constitutional Court, but the Socialist Government tried to find a way out to avoid repose. Related to this was the attention to irregular immigrants, in which the Basque Government does not have competence either, because, as we know, the issue of immigration depends on the Spanish Government. The government of Patxi López also drafted a decree in order to guarantee immigrants health care in the Basque Country. By the way, the Constitutional Court endorsed the measure, and it is under way and has therefore been resolved. I want to say that when you want to do it and there is political will to do it you can look for ways to do it. But I am also going to tell you another in which you have participated in the vote, although, in the end, I have many doubts as to whether you believed what you were voting for, beyond the fact that it coincided with an electoral committee, as were the municipal ones: fracking law. Throughout the debate, one of the most repeated arguments on the part of the Basque Nationalist Party was that we had no competence to act on the issue. After a great parliamentary debate, a speech that lasted longer than it should have lasted, we looked for a way to do it: we could go to the Basque Water Law, in which we do have competence, so that we could look for a way to ban fracking in Euskadi, voted by the Basque Nationalist Party, as I say, I believe by electoral pressure. Can you, or can't you? Do you want to give an answer, yes or no? I mean that the competencies are some, but it seems to me that politics (not today, all of life) has gone or tried to go a step ahead of the scenarios to which we are subject today. And I think that policy in this too, in the face of a social demand, in a situation in which we all say that we are for renewable energies, in a real decree that we all say that we want to repeal, in the face of that, why does not the Basque Government try to put in place clear measures and policies in order to be able to make it easier for someone...? Well, we are also not very clear, as Mr Maeztu has said, what the Basque Nationalist Party really thinks. Look, Mr Carro, you once again, in the old competition debate, avoid entering the next step. So, my question is, is it up to you guys to talk about self-consumption, yes or no? Because, of course, if it's not up to them, they won't be willing to answer either. This is about what it has to do with skills. As far as Ararteko is concerned, well, look, I'll leave you alone. Yes, Pedro Sánchez will rule Spain, but it is that the Ararteko will continue to exist, rule Pedro Sánchez or let us have the misfortune that he continues to rule Rajoy. The Ararteko has his powers, performs his interventions when asked or when he considers that he has to do so, and, finally, if we are not going to ask Ararteko for anything, because we are in an electoral process, because, just as Euskadi is always in an electoral process, we stop asking him for everything. Let's never ask him for anything I mean, because that, anyway, is to look... I no longer know what excuses to seek to not even support the point in which Ararteko is asked to position himself on this issue. And then, in what you tell me about the subject of the paper, I am clear and concise, it is true: you just wanted to take the start. But what is the beginning of the next course? January 1st? It's just that no one was telling the energy paper that January 1st would bring the paper's conclusions! What we were saying to him was that at first... It may be February, it may even be March, but it is that those of us who are part of the paper know how their development is going, which is that we did not want to bring to this paper. That is why, being clear and concise, in the answer I gave in all this negotiation of that amendment I said that it was a way of committing ourselves, those of us who are part of it, to speed up the work and not to end the legislature having wasted time for three years, because the paper will die when the legislature dies. So let us all be clear and concise. Again, Euskadi has a level of self-government that everyone would like, the rest of the autonomous communities. What cannot be done is that we use that self-government to cover ourselves when we are not interested in developing it, and use it as a bold weapon when we are concerned. Because, by the way, we have the best system of social policies, in which all the autonomous communities are looked at: there we also use, when we want, the competences of the Autonomous Community, to try to solve what Spain's competences do not fix. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u88	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Miss... Mr. Maniro... He mustn't speak. Eubertarians... Mr. Carro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. You see, Mr. Maeztu, I will read to you: "Legez besteko proposamena (bi puntu): Eusko Legebiltzarrak Jaurlaritzari eskatzen dio (bi puntu):". We pass the leaf, and it appears 1, 2, 3, 4. And it is true that in point 1 he puts "Spainoleko statue", but what do you think he puts on the previous sheet? "Eusko Legebiltzarrak Jaurlaritzari eskatzen dio (bi puntu):". And then they show up on 1, 2, 3 and 4. And then in Spanish, we go to the Spanish: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to (two points):", and then point 1. He speaks nothing of the Spanish Government, and says directly "Remove the draft of the royal decree regulating the administrative conditions...". Then... But, let's see, translation error... What does it say here? "Two points of legal proposal: "Esse GUKY asks (two-points): One, two, three, four. What does it say about eroska here? "Eus Legal... "It doesn't belong here to the Spanish State... "I don't know. Luego, calm down. What do we do, says Mr. Maeztu. Well, by boat soon, I'd tell you that the famous refrigerator you've commented on, subsidize it. Then, if you have some more time, on October 14, 2015, the decree of September 22, the 178/2015, on the Energy Sustainability of the Public Sector in the Autonomous Community of Euskadi has been published. Here it tells you how the entire public administration has to be a pioneer and tractor of all the development of renewable energies. That's for him to be entertained for a while. Mrs. Red, tell me about the fracking. If there is anyone who has dizzyed the loser with this subject, but, come on, for years, it has been his government, when he was led by the lehendakari Patxi López. The competitions. I have commented on the issue of legislation, that with the issue of legislation there is only one way to legislate, and Murcia has done so, and thank God they have not taken it out publicly, because there is no way. Since the Statute, there is no way to regulate this. And look, how faithful you comply with state law. Because on the subject of fracking they say, "You don't do anything..." What do you mean, no! A five-year moratorium! And what did they say? "Eye, no, let that the Constitutional shake us. We didn't leave him." And when we're seeing from EH Bildu that they've been able to even give up the "Ikurrina bai, spainola ez" thing, and even Garitano has fired now in May putting her in the place of honor, because for the other four years she had her there three meters away. More compliance with state laws...! And now they tell us here what to legislate, give ideas? Messedity! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u90	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. The representative of the American Basque Team, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u91	Mr Maeztu, the truth is that you have given me no solid argument with which you show me that there is a sun tax in that decree. None. He tells me they have to put accountants on. Man, they have to put an installation in condition! Of course, if you're not going to be hooked to the net, you don't have to put any counters, you don't have to put absolutely nothing. It can accumulate energy; therefore, it does not have to put anything. But if you want to be hooked to the network, and you want to use it, you have to put an accountant, you have to put an installation in condition. I just don't know what you're asking us to do! A mediocre thing? I don't know. I believed him more rigorously. He's talking about an efficient refrigerator. How, like the Volkswagens? Or what was the fridge like? Was it like the Volkswagens, the fridge? Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about something very serious. And there are those who are annoyed that a People's Party government regulates self-consumption, because they believe that only the left has a patent to regulate that. And no, ladies and gentlemen. In Spain, self-consumption is regulated for the first time, and regulated by the People's Party. He did it in Murcia, and he does it now in the Government of Spain. Sure! Is there a problem? They're running out of speech, aren't they? They're done. You said this decree is a threat, and, look, it's a threat to manipulate information to deter consumers and deceive them. That's a threat, because you know you're not telling the truth when you're talking about this. He knows he's not telling the truth, or he doesn't understand anything. But I consider you smart enough... as much as I do, that I understand it, and you don't. [[Barres]] Mr. Carro, what a pulse in the fulfillment of the Constitution, when here you are experts in vapulizing it! And today he's hooked on the Constitution! I can't believe it. His work on the energy issue is to divert attention to Madrid. The development of competences here is not a matter. This does not involve the development of energy skills. There's only one premise here, which is not to disturb the energy act. That's a bigger premise. That's right, call continuously, insist on the ministry to resort to the law of fracking, yes, the day after it was passed in this House. And here, otherwise, you have a lot of respect for what this House approves. And they continue to insist, and they bring them documentation, in case they had not realized in the ministry what line can be resorted to. That's what you do. What a shame! They have no interest in closing the energy presentation, no interest. This nationalist government is characterized by being in government and not ruling, to say and not doing, by promising and not fulfilling. Corruption starts by promising what you can't do, and that's what you do every day.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Now that the discussion's over, we'll vote. The first thing about the Economic concert. I won't read the texts. We'll vote the Basque Socialists, the Basque Popular Groups, and the Middle Exercise Amendment that has signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 52; counters, 1; white, 0; Abstations, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u93	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Second question about the Book of Contributions. This is where we vote for the original text of Mr. Damboreno, Mr. Basterrechea. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The opposites, 63; white, 0; abstain, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u94	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Misto-UPyD team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; supporters 1, contrary, 73; white, 0; abstain, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u95	So he didn't accept it. And finally, we vote for the general correction of the EH Collect Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters; 21; counters, 45; white, 0; abstations, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u96	So he didn't accept it. Third question about the collection of special employment centers. We'll vote for the original text of Mr. Ichaso Gonz's motion. Is it possible? Yeah. It's got two points. We'll vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u97	The first point is unanimously accepted. Next, we vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the party, 48; contrary, 26; white, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u98	So the second point is accepted. We'll vote for the fourth point on the theme list, the area of the power's autoconsumption policy. Here's EH Collect and the middle line that's signed by the Basque Socialists. Is that what you're asking for? Number three? The first one? Is it possible for the spots? Yeah. We'll vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 64; the opponents 10; the white ones are 0,0; abstaining.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u99	So the first point is accepted. After that, we'll vote for the other points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of the east, 37; opponents 26; white, 0; abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u100	So the other points are also accepted. We've come all this way and it stops till about four-fifteen. It was two and fifteen in the afternoon. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at forty-six.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u101	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting again. The fifth point in the theme list: "Pull up the legal proposal of the legislature around the situation created by the milk-collector. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Lázarbaster, it's yours to present the word as an initiative and get rid of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u102	Good afternoon, everyone. For the last few months, the milk cleaner left us a good deal of news. That's the signal that the sector is in critical condition and that's what we've got through the news. Your quota system was cancelled last March, a quota system that has been controlling European milk support for the last 30 years. And we may safely say that it has been another step in Europe to regulate the productions and the markets in this erasement process. It is opposed to the principle of property of nourishment, which leaves everything in the hands of the market, and favors the market-place to regulate itself. We may say in Europe that 20% of the price of milk-collectors is paid a gallon of milk, and that Europe has recently driven 500 million dollars to calm the unrest and fury of the cattlemen who had driven them. The government of Madrid announced a 300 euros support, 300 cow euros, for the mines in the galleys. If we come to the Araba, Bizkai, and Gipulia, the situation is very disturbing here. The Quotaal revelation has produced another stroke, but the problem has long since occurred. The only way for the last 30 years is to draw a single one, i.e., a single one for the milk machine. As to the production, the milk snails became modernized, turned to investments, and many cows entered, many cows and few lands. And how much is that? To give the worst data in all Europe. The whole of Europe is the largest cattle mast for each acre of land in Araban, Biscaian, and Gipuzian. As for the transformation of milk and marketing, the whole sector is organized around a single project. And those who have not entered that one way, or have once entered it, have found a desert. They've only been put into trouble from the administration. But it's not just that. The fact is that those who have taken this single road are also disappearing, and are disappearing in a very high rhythm. Here it is expressed in the last 20 years of the graphic that the number of milk-collars in Araban, Bukka, and Gipuzia, has come in the slide, as the blue line expresses from top to bottom. And what shows the red lines for the next 15 years is that if we go back to the decade, we can run out of sectors. This is the reality here. In order to give more data, as in the last 10 years, we could see here in the graph, but carried to the data, 77% of the producers for the past 10 years has disappeared. The average scale of the producers is 1,918 euros per cow, and the cattle-horses, which I have already mentioned, are Araba, Bizkai, and Gipus. We've got most cows here for each key. One average, 40 acres of head. After that there would be Italy, Holland, 1,5 acres of minds. And it's also a fact that this data is improved by Araba, and improved by a great deal. For in the gym, for instance, there are two acres, three, four, five, eight, and ten of them, we know them. And what's going on here is the high production costs. The domestic pastures aren't enough and the cows' food must be bought outside. The dependence on external factors is therefore increased, and peasants remain without autonomy. And, of course, environmental problems are obvious too. As reality is so crude, Mrs. Tapia, the day before yesterday at the Economics Committee, is really a disgrace to us. In his own words, he's a professionally trained field and a perfectly suitable job. And do you think this reality is a good deed? It's fun when you say you're so bad or that you're better than anything in the Spanish state to justify politics. But in this case, I would at least have been grateful to some self-critics, and probably the peasants of the 1,400 farms that have disappeared for the last ten years would have been grateful. It seems to us that the lid is a remarkable lack of respect for them. And as if the sector had a future, they also plan new measures. New measurements, but in the usual direction. And if you ask Mrs. Tapia, "Do you foresee a little milk-making from here to ten years? "'His answer was that he would need a glass ball to find out. Is this the answer of a farmer's department? We asked him other questions. For instance, where do the cows here eat the pen that they produced? Or where do cows eat what is produced in the Aran? Or where does milk here be produced? Isn't it 30 years late to start cheeseing with a cow milk now? And no answer from him. But that's not because he doesn't know the answer. No, that's the answer that shames him. And because it would be true to admit reality to answer those questions. Because this reality demands self-critic of what has been before. And it's a fact that I'm telling you, it's like it's gonna be the future. A short time ago we had the appearance of an agent in the North of the Basque Country, and, on the other hand, declared that in the French State the greater number of young farmers are installed, or that the area is the Basque Country. And the young men that install them, in the milk-cleaner, half transform and sell their milk. Here, however, the farmer himself transforms his milk and sells it. And we've also seen in the Gipuz the pre-law government set them up in different valleys of the Gipulia, a collective area for transformation of milk by farmers. Well, as soon as we get a new government, it's what he's done to stop those projects. Here we see again, along this single road, that they draw only one path for the future of the sector. And don't let anyone get out of that way. We have presented our proposal with another proposal, our proposal to the milk-cleaner, and it is not yet to upset or to abandon it, as some one will say in some subsequent intervention. Our purpose is to open new paths in the same way as now, so that there are different ways. So by this other law, we plan to set up an integral release for the milk cleaner. In order to be consumed here the milk that is produced, to put new structural initiatives in motion. To pay for the prices higher from the production funding, to promote commitments from industry and distribution. The milk-makers reduced external-dependence and set up a special plan for deintentation to help and counsel the producers who chose it. To promote without transgeneity milk product and its special marketing tag. I'm afraid it's an organic product of milk. The milk dealers transform their milk and burn the market around them. To help the producers change milk, make sure the new sanitary hospital is in progress as fast as they can and promote collective areas to transform milk. The farmers to put their milk on its value to show the transformation of the production model and all the transparency around the stroke in the label. In addition to the price paid to the producer, the citizens are paid. So that the first things that the milk-makers buy may be closest to the trade of the milk dealers and the peasants of Araba and Navarre. And finally, let the producers follow the current legislation, so that the produce of fresh and perishable products, like milk, may be paid within 30 days, so that milk may not be used in the stalls as baits, and not be sold at the due prices of just production. What we plan is to start new ways from that single path which has hitherto been the case. And I've been told that a middle-way has just been agreed on. I haven't read it yet, so I can't do any ratings about it at least for the moment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u103	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. lópez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon. As Mr Lazarobaster has said, on Tuesday we had the opportunity, in committee, to talk about this issue at length. We thought that the position of each group in committee had already been resolved, but, however, as Mr Lazarobaster has maintained the initiative for this plenary, we will say something more about this matter. It must be said that since the 1980s the European dairy sector has been regulated from Brussels through milk quotas, a measure which sought to prevent domestic production from exceeding consumer demand and the foreseeable fall in prices, and so-called national production quotas were established. Quotas that tried to balance demand and production (what you now call food sovereignty is very old, as old as it was in the early 1980s); quota that was distributed among the farmers of each Member State and that they were obliged to comply, and who failed for excess and sold was severely fined. In Spain a much lower share was accepted than it should have, because the winners hid the real production, because (always with those fears) they believed that this was how they could avoid taxes, etc. The reality is, it started off with a bad foot. We always had a much lower share than consumers' demand. If we consumed an average of 9 million tonnes of milk, our share was 6 million. As a result, France and other Member States supplied this part of the Spanish market with dairy products. This created critical moments for the sector and wars between farmers and industry. The year 2007, I think I remember, was the year that the highest price had milk, and at the beginning of 2008 Spain, for an initiative of the Government, asked for an increase in quota, thinking naively that it would only increase to Spain. But the quota increase was for all member states linearly, 2%. With this we made a bread like cakes: this quota was gradually increased, until 2015, that quotas were eliminated. We could say they were lynxes, but that's the reality. The reality is that there is more supply than demand in Europe today. The increase in quotas has coincided with the circumstances of a fall in consumption, prices have fallen, and production costs exceed the price per litre that farmers receive. The milk sector, the dairy sector in the Basque Country, accounts for 13% of final agricultural production. We are talking about 165 million kilos per year, which in economic terms amounts to 65 million euros. We talk about around 430 farms that market milk in the Basque Country. Mr.Lazarobaster was teaching us a chart, but it is that in 2015 the milk delivery rate is 5% higher than 2014. Therefore, the volume, first of all, does not correspond to the number of producers or to the number of cows, because if the livestock efficiency is higher, then the number of cows tells us little. I believe that what we have to value today is the number of kilos that are produced. Therefore, today we can say, in 2015, that we have 5% more delivery. That's the reality, it's the data, it's objective data. Look, I, which I produce, and in my house there have been cows, in the sixties the model was different. In all the houses there were dairy cows, there were cereals, there were pigs... there were a lot of things. Farms have been structured differently over time. Therefore, the number does not imply anything; it implies production. And production can say that in 2015 it is higher than in 2014. Five percent. So, we can do the graphics... You're interested in taking that chart out, but there are others too. So, we're going to value what is one and the other, and it actually gives us another reality, but I don't know which one is better, right? If we are producing 165 million liters and we consume 180, we have to produce more to get to what we are consuming. So, having a raise is good, I understand. As I told you, the dairy sector in the Basque Country is more structured than in other autonomous communities. That's an objective fact, that's right. And the elimination of quotas has affected us to a lesser extent. That is an objective reality. I mean, that's the way it is. You mean we don't have things to do? Of course I do! Still, as I said, we have weaknesses that must be corrected. We have an excessive dependence on the delivery of liquid to the industry: 97.5% of what we produce is delivered directly to the industry. Can things be done? Of course I do! We've said it not once, but a hundred thousand times. But there were other interests, other things had to be supported or other productions protected, and therefore this did not even touch, did it not? The transformation we're making is minimal. There are some specific facts in some area, but the truth is that any cow's milk processing project that has emerged has been boycotted since the Administration, from sectors, from..., etc., but has been boycotted. And we all know, at least those who move in this world, transformation projects that have had to close out of exhaustion, that did not let them or present themselves at fairs. Therefore, we have not done things right, and we are towing, and here we have an offer of cow's milk cheeses from other areas, than on Saturdays, if I go to the market of Vitoria, then I find queue of consumers buying cow's milk cheese, which cannot be from the Basque country because we do not do it. Therefore, there is demand and we make no offer. That's one of the circumstances and one of the weakness we have, isn't it? He was telling us about the livestock load per hectare, high in Gipuzkoa. It will probably have been higher, because, if the number of cows has fallen, there will have been times when the livestock load has been higher. And what you're saying is it has to increase. So, you're gonna put more livestock on it, aren't you? I've interpreted that from your words. We bought the food outside. Sure! Is it okay for you to have rape here? The rape, which yields performance. Is that okay with you? No, he doesn't like it. Therefore, you contradict yourself. It's just that you guys are hitting each other! Therefore, when they have a logical and consistent line with what they preach, we may consider their measures, but if not, we may not. It's just that if we have to lower the price of feed, then we'll probably have to take measures that we don't like, but is that good, or is it bad for the dairy sector? It'll be good, won't it? So, Mr Lazarobaster, you have to agree with yourself first, and then try to get the sector to follow you. We have made an amendment and we have reached a compromise amendment with the rest of the groups, and our ideas are, first, to strengthen co-operativeism in the dairy sector, because that has shown us that it is good, that it has made our dairy sector better support this call for quota elimination. And it is also good because they can be strengthened in reaching agreements with industry, because it increases the volume of production to be negotiated, and that strengthens the strength of the dairy sector. We also say that we must develop the short channels of transformation; that it is not the panacea and that I do not see many dairy farms turning now into the exploitation itself. Therefore, we will have to see how that is promoted and in what way, but it does not seem to us bad that once and for all the Administration will also get to work on this line. Of course this has to be in agreement with the outside parliaments and with the whole sector, because each has its own line of competence, and we believe that what the sector thinks about this is important. And I also believe that we need to promote our dairy products, the values that the sector represents, the maintenance of the dairy sector in the autonomous community. We believe that it is essential, necessary, and that it has values that bring us, and that we cannot let that fall, in some way, or weaken. I therefore believe that the amendment we have agreed is quite positive for the sector, and I would ask you to support it. I know that you in your initiative are asking for other things, but we really need to focus on what is important, and I believe that the lines we have outlined in this compromise amendment are important. That after you can do other things? Well, probably. But first we are going to strengthen the dairy sector of our autonomous community and give it tools so that it can better withstand the demands of the market, which will undoubtedly have them. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u106	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone, ladies and gentlemen. EH Bildu has really brought us a proposal that we can share in its philosophy, but that in the agreement that we are going to approve we convert it and we want to turn it into a practical proposal to solve the problem that producers have today. Because we also share the concern of the proposer: it is true, the end of the milk quota, in fact, causes the fall in milk prices, and a future without milk quotas further erodes the bargaining power of farmers. It is therefore necessary to put in place measures to cushion the negative impact of the end of the milk quotas which the European Union has marked. Milk prices are those of 20 years ago. They are, therefore, prices of ruin. And from a ruin of prices we can go to the ruin of farmers, and from the ruin of farmers we can and will lead us to the ruin of farms, and from the ruin of farms to the ruin of the whole sector, of hundreds and hundreds of farms that we want to protect and that many of them are disappearing. As is known, producers are defenseless against the big dairy industry. These large companies can pay approximately 0.24 to 0.28 cents per litre, when this litre costs 0.35 cents per litre to produce it. This is the reality. In front of it, small producers are making an effort to unite in cooperative enterprises, they are managing to maintain a dignity in price, and therefore they are succeeding in defending the dignity of the work they do. But if we do not act, if we do not intervene, the market will end up dragging everyone. The Basque Socialists are committed to these interventions, because we believe that this is a strategic sector for the vertebration of the rural environment. We want a vertebrate country, cohesive in all its areas (social, territorial and productive) and we therefore advocate strengthening the role of the primary sector of the rural world and the potential it continues to offer despite globalisation. In the face of this defence, which we have already reiterated in the majority in this Parliament, farmers and farmers continue to suffer from the passivity, improvisation and lack of initiatives of the central government. This Government, which has already resigned, has not avoided what it has had in its hands: to avoid the liberalisation of the dairy sector. And therefore, he did not do what he had to do. And it really could have helped the sector much more, the sector that can now really disappear, and it runs the risk, especially small and medium-sized farms. The Government of Spain has been an accomplice to the decision of the European Union to put an end to these quotas which have regulated the market for more than thirty years. These quotas have prevented overproductions that could sink milk prices, and with them to a large part of the livestock sector. The initial objective of the quota introduced in 1984 was to limit public expenditure in the European Union and control milk production, thereby establishing producers' prices and incomes. They were also intended to help maintain the activities of the most disadvantaged and least committed areas. We understand that a future without milk quotas further erodes the bargaining power of farmers, but, as we also repeat the Socialists, here the mere complaint does not serve us, it does not apply. Here's what's there. This is the legacy that a central government leaves to the dairy sector. The question is whether we can do something here (yes, here), with our powers, to prove that we really are at the side of the sector. And the socialists think so. That is why we propose to implement an extraordinary plan of support for the dairy sector, which we propose, and something that we believe is fundamental and which we must do: to support initiatives on the cooperation market, linked to the development of short channels and transformation; to provide defined aid for structuring, processing and marketing, which can directly affect the future of the sector; to put in place aid and support measures for producers to organise themselves on a solid and well-sized cooperative basis, which have proved to be efficient and effective vis-à-vis large industries; to strengthen aid programmes for producer groups and cooperation, which serve to develop new products which can directly affect the future of the sector; to agree with the large areas which the milk ceases to be the product of hooking at lower cost prices and which introduce the concept of fair buying prices to producers. All of this involves involving in this effort the departments of competitiveness, consumption and employment, and we are pleased to know that the party supporting the Government shares this vision, as does the People's Party of this Parliament. That is why we advocate this realistic and practical agreement, which, in addition to our institutions, calls for the responsibility of consumers and food chains. That is why measures need to be put in place in order to be able to help and cope with the negative impact of the end of the milk quota, which marks the European Union. From our Socialist Group, our commitment to the dairy sector. And we think that shared efforts are often successful, today and for the future of the whole sector. And now, in conclusion, I would like to ask Bildu to support the amendment. I believe that this is a complete amendment, which contains very well how we can help the sector, what aid we can strengthen. And I think it's important. The proposal that you made is not bad, but I think that first we have to solve and solve the problem that exists, and then we will talk about labels, another way of transforming, another way of helping the sector. But I think it is very important that we vote unanimously today and the sector sees that it is supported by this institution. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u108	The head of the table, members of the legislature, all good afternoons. I know that the time is not the best, the subject is not exciting, but in any case, the subject touches many people and a sector that weighs little financially, but which is extremely relevant, and with their absence we would miss it. And sometimes we play his possible absence. Already a few months ago in this same room we were invited, and with the same protagonists today, the sheep sector, that of milk. Shortly before, we had also had the cow, the milk, and the one with quotas. Today we meet again the cow, again the milk, but now without quotas. Let us say that the milk GNP package, a sector in any case in constant crisis, and an example that the EU seems to be doing us little good. Do not conclude that I am a Eurosceptic, which is not true. On the contrary, I am a Euroaddict. Perhaps that is why I particularly regret that the union between European countries, whose fundamental objective for many years has been the common agricultural policy, will continue, after decades, to wander permanently. It cannot be that after so many years of trying different policies, after putting in place the quota (very perfectable, that is, but effective), the EU eliminates it to provoke what everyone knew was going to happen months in advance. Certainly the quota system was not perfect, as it prevailed against one another, while it caused parallel quota markets (even someone got rich selling a quota that had been received free of charge from the Administration), but so and so, the quota system managed to balance the most complex balance in agriculture, which is supply and demand. It seemed, therefore, that if the quota system were to achieve, albeit to a limited extent, a certain balance of prices and a certain justice in the payment to the producer of a justification, the most logical thing would have been to maintain and perfect it, but never to eliminate it, and to arrive at what everyone warned that it was going to come, and arrived. It is also true that the crisis has precipitated, perhaps artificially, that is also true, because since the liberalisation of the market, which is what prompts us in today's GNP, it has not been so long before the European countryside is filled with such a large number of cows in production as to bring prices down so suddenly, which seems to indicate that there is another person directly responsible for this crisis beyond the European Union and who has managed to speed it up, which is nothing other than the large distribution. Regardless of whether the crisis broke out in August, among other things because in the summer traditionally the consumption of milk falls, and therefore its price, some industries and some milk distributors have taken advantage of this already announced circumstance of falling prices to play with the farmers and pay them with significant discounts and below the cost of production, for that way, and knowing how to use the low price of milk as attractive in the lineals, to impute some small profits. Therefore, if the elimination of the milk quota – which means an increase in production – is accompanied by consumption containment, and that production is dispersed and with little bargaining power, and, finally, that the veto continues – this is very important – of marketing to Russia, which obliges an extra marketing in the internal market (because what we do not sell there we have to sell here), we have the perfect storm, but in this case milk. This disturbing panorama in Europe, thanks to God in Euskadi, and even though it is not free of some uncertainty, seems to be affecting us less. Of the 436 milk farms in Euskadi, which sell 165 million kilos, as has already been said, we can say that the real crisis situation affects exactly eighteen farms. If the average price reduction for these eighteen farms was EUR 0.2 per kilo, in the rest of the Basque sector it was 10 times less than two cents per kilo. From there I'm sure there will be people who will expect that I'm a proud frog of my own, and they're right, but I'll stick to my own, too, and I'll refer to the numbers. And, given the possible question of what is the reason for this moderate optimism, which logically will be made those who do not know this sector – which surely there are, that is, logically – I have to tell you that co-operativeism is to blame. If it were not for the historical will to unite so many farmers of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa; if it were not for the express will to settle the dairy cow sector in Euskadi that had the different political leaders of the different institutions of this country (and here I cannot forget to quote expressly the one who worked most on that issue, who was the former agricultural adviser, already deceased, José Manuel Goikoetxea); if it were not for them, today we would not have in Euskadi dairy sector. If it had not been for that will to underpin the sectoral functioning on the basis of strong co-operativeism, not only with negotiating capacity, but also owner of industry and marketing and, therefore, milk collection capacity in all corners, today we would be regretting what has not been done, rather than discussing how to continue working. In fact, the eighteen farms detected in crisis have been operating with an auction system at the highest bidder, until the widespread price fall, which could have been supported by the farms added to the Kaiku cooperative, at the same time Iparlat's majority shareholder. Once the storm broke out, both the EU and the Spanish Government itself and, of course, the Basque Government have taken action to try to address the chaos generated as a matter of urgency. I will not go in to break down the measures the ministry intends to implement, because they are not part of our negotiation. And also because we do not trust them at the outset, since the Spanish Government was not able to stop, for lack of conviction, the elimination of the quota system, nor, as I have already pointed out, the EU did. What confidence can we have in those who by action or omission eliminated a perfectable but balanced system? And what confidence can we have in those who, in the face of the multiple warnings of what was going to happen and ended up taking no action and today are engaged in making improvised decisions as a matter of urgency? That is why the compromise we have signed seeks to transfer to the Basque Government what measures this Parliament believes should be taken to continue supporting a sector we still need, if we do not want to start paying the cost of non-agriculture. Basically, the work we ask of the Government is based on three axes that have already been mentioned here: strengthening co-operativeism, diversifying production, and becoming an accomplice to distribution. Active and strong co-operativeism is the key to sustaining the dairy sector able to withstand the storms of milk. The Basque Government and the three parliaments must therefore continue to deepen such co-operativeism, encouraging integration into the system of all producers. On the other hand, the dependence of the majority of the dairy sector on exclusive liquid milk is an excessively risky dependence, especially when it is a primary product that can be transformed into multiple and differentiated products. For this reason, the Government is asked to boost aid, both in cooperation programmes and in Lehiatu and others, to promote projects and investments that diversify production, and thus, when the milk earthquake shakes, part of the income of a dairy farm is not affected. And the third block refers to the imperative need to address the problem of large distribution through significant price cuts in order to make its linears attractive. That benefit that the supermarket can get is always detrimental to the farmer, and endangers his own existence. The Administration (the Basque Government) must therefore mediate between the two parties and pressure the distribution sector to make its sales prices higher than the reasonable cost of production. Cooperation and the pursuit of fraud are in this case the two sides of the same coin. All of them measures already analyzed, and, if not put in place, all on doors to be executed. What comes to the conclusion that the government is aligned with what this Parliament is suggesting, or that this Parliament has understood that the measures that the government is going to put in place are the right ones, so high. Without forgetting, by the way, that all of them are being agreed with the whole sector in the broadest sense. This is where the milk GNP ends, where measures will be proposed to prevent the crisis in the dairy sector. Because we have to intervene, that the worst thing is to leave things to chance, because, in case you don't know, chance usually has very bad milk. What this crisis has allowed to visualize, in any case, is that the forecast of structuring a sector, of forming cooperatives and of uniting production with transformation and marketing has been the best way to support it in the face of the improvisation of the European Union, the apprehension of some distribution and the inability of a Madridn ministry. Because, as Seneca said, "when you are in the midst of adversity it is already late to be cautious." And I say I should have been cautious before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u109	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The next round of the group that hasn't been running any corrections,UPyD... He won't take the word. Passing on the answer shift, EH Collect. Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u110	Yeah. Having read the middle course, we shall not defend it, because it seems to us that the measures they receive from it will not open any new way from that road till now. And that's what we're looking for right now. Madame Lopez de Ocarariz, you have made it clear that you put the kilos before people, and I think you will understand them, or I have too many things to say to EAJ today with the group that has pushed the milking system off. Mrs. Fresno, tell me that you agree with the original text in a certain degree, but that what is signed is really short. And Mr. Tellegio, in a way, you've spent half of your interference in Europe and you've made a very superficial speech. And what they're looking for is actually hiding the reality of the sector. And that's why you use two major arguments. One, we're better off here than the rest of us. And the second thing is that the crew took over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over I'll say again how much you like to look at the surrounding miseries, we're better here. But in this case, too, you're not being honest. In fact, you count the price of a quart of milk paid to the peasants. And I don't need to tell you, but to calculate the benefits, you have to take the tickets off the expenses. And if you have the tallest European cattle year here, with the higher production costs, I ask: Have you compared the production costs around us? And the other: You know, it's a good idea when you're in the middle of the race, you know? the only road marked in the last ten o'clock in the sector is so clean and the desert shakes out of it, do you think the milk doctor has some measurements to disagree with? The liquid milk is very decadent, it must begin to be cheesed by the Eusco Labels, Mrs. Tapia said, probably it'll transform the Northolas... Why don't the peasants transform their milk, make cheese, roll and sell them? I don't find any cattle or vegetables in my valley and why does the plan come somehow to be five or ten different cheeses in each valley and so many yogurts? There's people waiting to consume, the product's all missing. And for that, the tools are needed by the peasants. The collective rotation centers are an excellent tool for the peasants to start by transforming their milk. But you don't accept that, you cut it off to follow your only way while the sector is going down forever. And here it has been explained to the local population that in several decades we have a strong milk attorney, that the quality here is very good, and that the terms are as 'quameter zero', 'a hundred natives'. And as if there were nothing to be made better than the highest, and reality is far from there. We ought to explain to the people what true reality is, and in a good way. Milk cleaner's going to ruin. What the cows here eat in addition to farm grass, there is also a transgenic Soja from Brazil, which has been produced in the United States by transgenic corn, which exists in Poland. And as long as this happens, the cerea, which is produced in the Aran, goes to the market of the world without even passing by. Cattle give more medicine than is desirable.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u111	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u112	Yeah, I'll finish it right now. The milk produced here, the greatest milk, the going outside, and the drink here comes from the outside, and a long one. You have to tell the people we have a lot of work to do. That we want to reorganize our milk attorney as a village, that we're going to open new roads, and that we also demand their commitment. And what I can't allow is that chart, burdening that line to appear here with the face of the sector's saviour. And I'll end up telling you I'd like to remind them that the peasants who have disappeared for the past few years don't remember them, and a warm goodbye to them from here. And on the other hand, to those who have brought their milk this morning, and to those who are coming down this evening, keep up their spirits and keep their spirits high.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u113	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. The representative of the Basque Popular, Mrs. lópez de Ocariz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u114	Yeah. The truth is, I didn't intend to intervene, but I realized that Mrs Fresno has some wrong data. And also, to point out, when he talks about the Government of Spain's failure to do its duties, I will remind him of what the Secretary General of Agriculture and Food said: "Josep Puxeu questioned that the allocation of the milk quota is extinguished in 2015" (remember, Secretary of State in 2008: Government not of the PP, of course), "as the Commission has assured. But he demanded an increase in the amount to be received by Spain, so that, if this system is finally over, the farms are prepared, competitive in the whole continent" (the whole continent). Mrs Fresno, what did the Government of Spain do in 2008? Request a quota increase. He wanted only Spain, but the Commission told him that 2% was linear, raising the European quota by 2%. Spain touched 400,000 tons of increase. But, look, what happened then was that the Secretary of State of the Government in 2008, Mr Zapatero's Socialist Government, did absolutely nothing to ensure that quotas were not eliminated in 2015, among other things because they came to Brussels very little, and when they came they blew it. Similarly, they called for the elimination of the planting rights of the vineyard, and there we have the elimination of the planting rights of the vineyard. In 2012, when the new Government entered, it could no longer act, because it was already approved. They left all the hydrological plans unapproved, were Brussels' fines for the inaction of his Government, and it turns out that the Spanish Government had to stop those fines, because, if not, the truth that the economic situation was bad, and could not be faced. Therefore, when talking about the Government of Spain specify which Government it is talking about. Because if there are any guilty and responsible people here, it is the government that in 2008 were genuine lynxes. They did the opposite of what had to be done, only because of a propaganda and electoral issue: giving Galicia more quota. With this, today they have the problem they have in Galicia thanks to their work. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u116	Yes, thank you, President. Yes, Mrs López de Ocariz, I believe that in these four years that Mr Rajoy and the PP have been ruling, they have sufficient responsibility to have shortened, to have intervened in the European Union. It was really their responsibility, and they didn't act, they didn't do anything. They have been mute, and they have given the European Union the right to have this whole problem that we now have with quotas. Indeed, the Socialist Party in Brussels has worked, presented initiatives, and opposed all these procedures, which I saw could be a failure and a danger to the sector's disappearance. And the Socialist Party in Madrid has also presented countless initiatives, worked and left a lot of time and has tried to protest, to see that this whole situation was going to be very dangerous. It has also become sufficiently clear that the Basque dairy sector is seeking its survival by reducing milk dependence by 90%. The Basque Government should adopt and strengthen support measures to analyse the situation in the Basque sector in order to assess the situation in the sector, as well as the measures to be taken by the Basque administrations; it should work together with the outside bodies, as well as with the main sectoral actors (agrarian organisations, management centres and sectoral associations, cooperatives, milk buyers, processing industry and large distribution). The evaluation of the dairy production sector could be highlighted in two points: the need for a strong restructuring, and the significant loss of farms and livestock. In just over ten years, a significant percentage has been lost both in the farms that exist and in the livestock farm. By drastically changing the productive model and the positive externalities attached to the sector, among the most important reasons we would highlight four: Globalization. The product tends to move to more favourable areas geographically and climateally, or as an area with measures aimed at economic reasons: production costs, aid, proximity to a core of consumption, transformation and policies. Concentration and organizations in the last links of the valuation chain, to the detriment of the great atomisation and lack of structuring of the producing sector, negatively affecting its bargaining power. The disappearance or limitation of the market regulation instruments provided for in the CAP. Current economic crisis, accentuated by exogenous reasons: closure of the Russian market, general interests, etc. We must therefore recognise that the smaller farms, with less than 250,000 kilograms of animal quota, half of the existing ones and which account for 12.5% of production, can be negatively affected by the disappearance of many of them. What has cost them so much effort and investment since March 31st is no longer worth anything. This is paradoxical and ruinous, since the money invested in quota has not allowed other things to be done. The new scenario that farmers will have as a future is very uncertain. Industry will decide when to produce, at what price, with what quality parameters, and the collection areas. The only thing the industry is looking for is cheaper milk. We cannot forget all the farms called mountain areas, ultraperipheral and disadvantaged, considering that they will have little chance of benefiting from inequality and the elimination of quotas. We would like to comment on a kind of aid, on what the Basque Government must do here to strengthen agricultural holdings. It should promote training and advice; support for investments in farms; aid for investments in processing and marketing; establishment of producer groups; aid for cooperation, short channels and marketing; aid for disadvantaged areas; aid for animal welfare; and support for investments and facilities. The sector must count, and this type of aid must be strengthened and directly affected in the future. Finally, I would like to say and conclude by saying that the Socialist Group will continue to work, supporting and helping, with a commitment to work with and for the dairy sector, because we want it to go up, because we need to work to get it up and improve its situation. That's all, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Finally, Eucabertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u118	All right, cheer me up. With this, calm down, this tedious GNP is going to be over by now. However, it has been adapted, because the PP and the Socialist Party are already seen to be campaigning, and then this has... And then... Man, my speech is shallow! Thanks for the grade. Now you are the qualifier of others' speech. You'll tell me when she's Sakona, when she thinks I've gone into it. Because to say, for example, that in my region no one transforms milk and it is the fault of the government, or that the government cuts what the farmers say, or even Mrs López de Ocariz has said that all attempts to process milk transformation have been short-circuited... If you don't give me examples, if you don't give me casuistics, that's not superficial: that's frivolous. It's frivolous. Tell me the cases, explain them. Because the Basque Government historically, in its subsidy programmes (now Lehiatu, but before it was called otherwise), traditionally subsidized, always, projects for the processing of milk, tomatoes, lettuce or whatever. But no, here it comes, there are four generalities, and the gentleman of the PNV is accused of superficial. And you... of an extraordinary depth. Because, of course, it blames the government for the massive decline in farms, which is true and worrying; however, I had come here to a GNP which you yourself entitled "on the situation created by the liberalisation of the dairy sector". That is, the disappearance of quotas, an addition to the problems. But the milk sector is much more contentious than the aid that the government can give. Think of this country, its orography, the reality of what is happening in the dairy sector in Europe, the pressure generated by the industry and the jobs generated by the industry, and you value me if at best you are heroes who continue to endure with the milk sector really. Because if you think you're going to solve the dairy sector, or its liberalization, with your program... It's a program... forgive me, forgive me, but from Playmobil's farm. I do not know, with ecological milk, with short circuits..., they are aids, they are indispensable, it is good to have it, they are alternatives, but that does not solve the dairy sector in the context in which we move, Mr Lazarus! It doesn't solve it at all. Not at all. And besides, I'm going to tell you, it tells me that with the Basque government it has descended I don't know how much milk and farms, and it's true. The curve that is an objective reality, and we have responsibility I suppose many people, and it has responsibility for the reality on which a hugely complex sector moves. But outside parliaments also have their responsibility: in their aid plans they also generate aid for dairy farms. And, look, a figure I took today morning to fly feather: 2011-2014, period of the last outlying delegations, disappearance of dairy farms in Álava, 13%, and in Gipuzkoa 25%. Who ruled in Gipuzkoa? Did he rule the PNV and its superficiality, or did he rule Bildu and his sakona? Ah! Well, that's it. Then... I will tell you more, I will tell you more: if it were not for the system – which the institutions did put a lot of pressure on – of structuring a sector, of creating a strong cooperative, a transformative industry, today, today, with the disappearance of milk quotas, today the dairy sector in Euskadi would have disappeared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u119	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The original text of another proposition, as well as the EH Collector, has been discussed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 21; contraries, 52; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u120	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we'll vote for the Esquila Populars, the Basque Socialists, and the middle-line corrections signed by the Eucabertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 52; counters, 21. White, 0; Abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u121	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "The other suggestion of the law of Egypt, as it was made by Poppse, concerning twenty-five per cent of the price of extraordinary officials. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Llanos has the word to introduce and take off her initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. I hope not to extend much, because, in addition to the time and the full length that we have had, therefore, it is not much to receive, and also because the purpose of this initiative is very concrete, although I suppose that after, in the interventions of the groups, then, everyone will take advantage that the Pisuerga passes through Valladolid to make all kinds of criticisms, and almost without exercising pythonise, which lately I am given quite well, sure, sure they will mess with the government of Mariano Rajoy. Because it's true that we're all in pre-campaign. I do not know if the Basque Nationalist Party is not going to run for the next general election, and that is why, of course, it is not in the pre-campaign, nor will it be in the campaign afterwards. But, finally, one of the first debates that took place in this House was precisely the one concerning the extra pay of officials. A bill on measures on the extra pay of officials was introduced, and Councillor Erkoreka was at the time satisfied with the speed of his Government's submission of this first bill. The truth is that the work must have been arduous, it must have been costly, and it must have left the Government on the verge of exhaustion and on the verge of exhaustion, because the truth is that many bills are not later in this House, right. But, finally, separate exhaustions, as I said, the purpose of the bill was, as I prayed, to resolve the situation created by Royal Decree-Law of 13 July 2012 of extraordinary measures to ensure budgetary stability, and the resolution adopted by the Constitutional Court agreeing to the suspension of the decision of the Socialist Executive to give effect to the extra payment to public employees for December of the financial year 2012. This Royal Decree-Law of 13 July 2012 established, in effect, the suspension (not the abolition), the postponement of the extraordinary pay of that year. The measure, clearly said then, I insist, was to shift over time the payment of the extraordinary payment for December 2012. It was a difficult step, no one would have liked to have to take. Believe me, the People's Party government did not like to have to take it, but it was forced by the dire economic situation that was going through at the time and that required measures that would result in a short-term outcome. There was a need to lower public spending and contribute to the reduction of the deficit. The central government, as I say, had to take measures to ensure budgetary stability, and one of them was precisely that, the postponement of the December 2012 payment. Some at that time tore their clothes, and even appealed the ruling of the People's Party Government to the courts. However, those who then tore their clothes, years earlier they remained silent and looked elsewhere when the socialist government (yes, Mr Zapatero's government) reduced the salaries of officials by 5%; a measure of a permanent nature which led to a loss of purchasing power that has not been recovered. While the 5% drop, whether it liked it or not, was followed with loyalty and responsibility by the governments of the Autonomous Communities of the People's Party, here in Euskadi it did not happen the same. Here the Basque Government, as I say, still in socialist hands, challenged it before the courts, but more as a pose, as a pure posture, because it knew in advance what would be the result of that challenge. It was, therefore, in addition to a disloyal attitude, an irresponsible attitude, because everyone knew that the basic legislation of the State was binding, so that its attitude, as I say, generated great legal uncertainty and confusion in a subject as sensitive as this. As I said before, the economic situation of that summer of 2012 was serious. It was the most difficult time for the Spanish economy, and the truth had to be told, because that is what brings confidence and stability. The situation was so serious, that Mr Lehendakari himself spoke of "national emergency". And in that situation, crossing hands does not solve things, but makes them worse. We must live up to the circumstances, and certainly some were not. It was necessary to take measures with courage and determination to improve the economy, and that was what the People's Party Government did, even if those measures were unpopular. But it is those measures that have allowed the recovery today, at this moment, not to be a chimera, but to start to look like a reality, even though there are still – and we must recognize it and we all recognise it – many things to do. Well, well, as I say, then it was said that the extra pay would be returned. A commitment was made to public workers and their trade union representatives, and that commitment is being fulfilled. In the same year, 25 per cent of State administration officials were returned earlier this year. And on 11 September of this year the government also approved the Royal Decree-Law for the refund of 26.4% of the extra payment to officials of the General Administration of the State, who have charged it in October. To this end, an extraordinary credit of EUR 250 million was made available. And it has also been committed that in 2016 they will receive the remaining 50%, and that the salary will also be increased to staff members, and it has established a budgetary appropriation for that. And this, as I say, has been possible because of the improvement of the economy, which has made it possible to cope with these disbursements, thanks to the fact that there has been an increase in the collection. In 2013, the Basque Government requested the Constitutional Court to rule as soon as possible, so that Basque staff could recover all the extra pay for the year 2012 as soon as possible. Therefore, in view of this request, for it to be recovered as soon as possible, everything suggested that as soon as possible it would be possible to make more refunds of the suspended extra pay. The Basque Government this year, it is true, was returning 25% of that extra payment in 2012, and for this purpose it provided a credit of EUR 20 million. Moreover, it should be remembered here that in July of that same year Mr Erkoreka showed that he would increase the salary of officials by 1% and that in September the other 25% of that extra pay suspended in December 2012 would be recovered if the central government did the same. It was pointed out that if the forecasts that were being made from the Ministry of Finance were confirmed, and the legal impediments for both were unblocked, they would be fulfilled. Now those impediments are gone. There is now the possibility of making another return, because, as we say, this is permitted by State legislation, and even the central government has made the return of that 25%. And so have other public administrations, such as the Foral de Álava, which has returned it, and which has been able to do so because it had an economic allocation for it. However, in the case of the Basque Government, we do not know whether or not this provision exists. What we do know is that it is not going to be done, because it has already been said that it is not going to be done, that the financial situation does not allow it. Mr Erkoreka stated that, if the Álava Parliament can make the extra payment, then "blessed be your financial situation" (these were your textual words: "Blessed be your financial situation"), but that this was not the case with the Basque Government, which could not cope with this payment either in September or October, and I am very afraid that neither in November nor in December. And the question is: why, knowing that it was going to have to be returned – because, as I say, it was a postponement –; why, asking from the Basque Government the resolution of the appeal as soon as possible in order to proceed with the return; why, saying that if the legal obstacles were removed, it would be done now? Mr Erkoreka pointed out that the economic situation of the Basque Government does not allow this, but what should be asked is what the Basque Government has done or has not done so that its economic situation does not allow it to face this. Because it was foreseeable that this would have to be done in 2015, with which we believe the accounts should have been squared, financial exercises should have been made, and see where those resources could be obtained to pay staff members, because staff members deserved this commitment. It is not acceptable to criticize it, but then, when it has to act, not to act, and not to return that 25 % which is the responsibility of the officials. Because the truth is that the Basque government to criticize the first in line, the first in the banner always, and if it has to criticize the government of Mariano Rajoy let's not say. But in order to govern, to act, to pay, to take measures that can alleviate the situation that the officials, who have had to make many sacrifices in this economic crisis, have contributed a lot to the improvement of the economy without compromising the quality of public service, for which the Basque Government does not really commit itself. It is true that these questions should have been specific to an inquiry and answered by Mr Erkoreka, and in the event of an unsatisfactory response to a motion. But really, if we wanted the payment to be made as soon as possible, it was yours that this House urged the Government to make that payment, and the inquiry and motion were too long a time. That is why we have tabled this non-legislative proposal, and that is why we are submitting it as a matter of urgency in its day, so that officials could have that 25% on their payroll as soon as possible. Because this royal decree – let's not forget – allows those who want to do it (who want to do it) to pay back. That is, it remains in the hands of the autonomous authorities. We therefore believe that it is a matter of political will, that if we want to do so, we can do so. In fact, the Bureau of this Parliament has already agreed to return 25% of the extra payment to those who were abolished in 2012. It seems that last week the Basque Government met with the trade unions, and what was shown is that 25% would be paid at the beginning of 2016, but the remaining 50% has neither date nor budget allocation, because it seems that what has been recorded in budgets is only the one referring to that second payment of 25%. On the other hand, as I say, it has been done in the General Budgets of the State. And, therefore, what we are asking of the Basque Government is something very clear and simple. It is true that they will then be involved in other debates that can be done and that can be considered, but what this initiative proposes is very clear and very simple: that we proceed as soon as possible to the return of that second 25%, and that this government commits itself, as others have already done, to the return of the remaining 50% at the beginning of 2016. The question is whether or not we want to do it, whether there is political will to do it or not. That's all we have to say. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u123	Thank you, Miss Llanos. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Arrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u124	Good afternoon. The Spanish Government, which is on the threshold of elections, and because it is economical growth, has taken so many measures to justify its face in the working conditions of the workers of public services. And among them, he opened the door to return the extra price of 2012. In 2012 the Popular Party decided to deprive and impose upon the state of extraordinary rewards. Now, for other reasons, the ELALEKIA decided to return what she had taken away. And this is reality, Mrs. Llanos, that's all. You said it right too. Now you have to sell it, it's time to sell that economy is going well and that in the state, Spain, you're doing well. And in this context we place the other proposal, as you have brought it to the whole assembly today. For the past few years, it's been a lot since the staff of public services had been removed and a lot of public services and jobs raiding Madrid's place. The extra salary of 2012 is one of them, but not the only one. As a result of these imaginary policies, we have said more than once, thousands of jobs have been lost. I shall make but one instance: 2,500 people who've been retired in 2013-2014 have been treated directly in Araban, in Gipuzia and Bitz. This, considering not the business of other measures. The purchase power almost dropped 20%. There's an extra fee for that, but there's still five percent of residual residual government, made by the state government, and also established here. And it's been frozen for years from the solsleday that's been frozen for years. There have been others, however, not only these: Not to fill the replacements from the first day, not even the medical agent, but to increase the work... In education, for instance, the professor's student student ratio has become visibly worse, and fewer teachers have become students. The temporary rate of membership has risen, the services are privatizing, and we'd have an endless list. What we have here is that public employees have been punished for the last few years and public services have been weakened by their quality. Both, moreover, have a direct connection: that there are fewer workers, that they may be more labourers, lesser wages, when it is almost prohibited, the effect is to injure the service. When many of these measures have been imposed upon and established, it's always been said that he can't do anything else. And Madrid forces him to come and fill it. And we don't agree. You know, it's just, like, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, you know, like, Instead of defending property, public services, and public workmen, he has established all the restrictions imposed on Madrid. He had something else to do, but it is essential to say that he is one of the reasons why he should be reduced to agree. And it was an excuse too. Apart from what has been said during this interval, the collective negotiation in the public sector has vanished. The last deal was 2010 and it didn't work out. All decisions have been submitted and carried on through decadents during the past few years, which is very serious. And it's like this once in a while that I'm sure you're going to follow me the same way. A witness of this to the extraordinary salary of 2012, and to all the other matters mentioned. If we consider what has been said in the General of the Public Function in the last week, and if we consider what MUGH has said publicly, it seems to us that he has no intention of changing it. 25% of 2012 special wages he says he won't be back now and he'll be doing it in 2016. But he didn't even say when he's going back to 50 percent, or when he's going back. And it's weird. Now, Madrid has decided to give that money back to the working people in the state, and I'm not going to give it to the public employees here. In this case, it's the other way around. He has no problem making his decisions. Now he takes it so as not to pay the workmen what is due to them, even though he pays them in the state. And this one is amazing too. But about the ascent of 2015, the head for the usual time, as Rajey said, only in Madrid. Without negotiation, retired, without considering the potential for purchase. And on the other hand, he also exhibits at the table that 35 hours of work will be reported. All right, but you have to come up with a plan to get a job lost. If not, it won't work, it won't get lost with that size. And, after all, as has been said, he has put aside the collective negotiation. It's kind of a problem making fun of everything that's been doing with a collective negotiations in the public sector. And from this consideration and examination comes the correction we have expressed. We proposed two special sections, and we have them. First, you have to translate what you've taken from the workers. And among them there is an extraordinary salary of 2015. And in our correction, we propose that everything should be translated, 75% of what is missing, we say in the middle, and in the year 50th, 2016th. And in order to do that, we put a deadline in the middle, which, as I have said, we have defined. And we said that this should be negotiated. But, as has been said before, the public labourers have been deprived of a great number of rights of labour during these years, and have never been deprived of it. And it is time to strengthen public services, restore the lost employment, and return to the workers who have been deprived of it, to set up a real collective negotiation, to put aside their position, and to supply the means necessary to public public services, which the public needs. But, as I said before, it's as if, again, it's a different way, right and wrong from our point of view. He has publicly introduced public affairs the day before, regardless of the necessity of public services and the demands of those who work in it. and what is still more serious, without any negotiation, and without any attempt to negotiate. A meeting has been called to report late and running with the workers' representatives. Everyone we're talking about, as I said, has something to do with the budget, just as I've discussed it right now. There's still time for us to make proposals, too. for we think that we ought to put all this before the payment of the debt, or before other expediency. And, as I said before, we've agreed on a medium with the Socialist Party and we plan three points in the middle. First, we accuse the Spanish Government of public services and public employees. And we're making fun of your homework for two more points, what's always coming from state to move in another direction, up and down, isn't it? Because it is a debt to the public, and that must be returned to them. And, as has been said, we determine the deadlines. And on the other hand, to bet on a collective negotiation is to bet on the next point, what has been taken away, what has been lost, from the last temporal agreement, we call to strengthen it again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u126	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen. The Socialists want to defend today the negotiation with workers' representatives as a nuclear element of the conditions under which their rights are guaranteed. Also on how to repay an extraordinary payment that was unjustly withdrawn. When a government puts patches where it talks about rights, it can happen what happens now: that it stays in this matter behind even the Rajoy government, which is already difficult. The Government of Spain had electoral emergencies and has asked for credit to try to satisfy public employees, thinking of obtaining a higher number of votes in the forthcoming general elections. Not because we're better, but because the general elections are on top. And his party has launched itself into that race, and he brings us this proposal to highlight the goodness of the Executive that will pass into history not only because it is the one that has laminated the most rights in the history of Spanish democracy, but because it has done so, with the prepotence of an absolute majority, and that it has demonstrated its inability to understand the country in which it lives. The PP proposes that Basque institutions follow Rajoy's path, and we are not for the work. Because we want to record our rejection of the measures imposed by that government, and to restore all suspended rights, also that which assists public employees to recover the salary set out in the budgetary laws. And even if the result is similar, the starting point is totally opposite. With the abolition of that pay in 2012, the Spanish Government created a problem where it did not exist, and decided to impose that problem on others. The Socialist Government of Euskadi at that time tried to fulfil its obligations of retribution, and the Government of Spain did not leave it. In his day we denounced that injustice, but to it was added another problem, which improvised the government of Urkullu just to reach Ajuria Enea: a law that advanced the extra payments cancelled in six months. All opposition groups abstained. We did not consider that law necessary, because it was sufficient that those employees who might have problems because they did not receive that part of their salary could apply for a payroll advance. And that law, which sought to alleviate the consequences of incomprehensible and unjust political decisions, obviated allusion to labour rights. It only referred to advance payments. So in October, public employees have already charged those 2015 extras. And while in the rest of Spain they will also be able to recover part of what was lost three years ago, here they will not do so. The law, which was sold as compensation for injustice, has become unfair. But that law failed in a great pillar: the previous negotiation with the workers' representatives, to know before what their will was. And, as the proponent quotes, the Álava Diputation, at the initiative of the area that is not casually socialist, the first thing he did was sit with the workers to study the return formula. And he has agreed with them that this year 25% will be returned, and at the beginning of which 50% will still be left to them. What the Basque Government has done, on the contrary, is to sit down the trade unions three days before approving the budget proposal to tell them that it will not return that amount at the same rate as the others; that is, it has informed them of a decision taken. He hasn't negotiated with them again. He may argue budgetary difficulties, he may argue that next year he will increase wages by 1%, but what he cannot claim is that they have not had three years to close any agreement with the workers. And third lack of that express law: the lack of foresight of a transitory. The time of application is not determined, nor is the way to return the lost amount. No, no, It only required all employees, whether or not they had domestic emergencies, to change their pay dates. This Government, which has shown so many shortcomings in legislative initiative, has shown its limitations in this law. Socialists do not know whether this executive thinks or does not change this hasty foresight; it is your responsibility, you govern. What we do want is for him to learn to sit at a table of dialogue with those who represent the interests of those employees, to agree with them on how to return everything that has been left behind in this crisis. That is why we support our compromise amendment, the amendment between the EH Bildu Group and the Socialist Group, in which we denounce, in the first point, the continued annihilation of public services and the continuing deterioration of the rights of public workers by the Government of Spain, and propose, in the second point, a form of subscription: that 25% of the extra payment not paid in the financial year 2012 be refunded before 31 December 2015, and the rest, 50% that would still be pending, in 2016, but after a negotiation with the workers' representatives on how to make such a subscription. Finally, the Basque Parliament is also urged to negotiate with the trade unions the recovery of the lost working conditions and of the employment destroyed during these years, taking as a reference the last employment agreement. And nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u127	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Madame Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon again, everybody. Well, if you hear what you've heard, two or three things that are clear, it's not really clear. The commitment to the Jeltzal Party is a special payer of the workingers, 2012, a firm commitment to pay, in the organizations where the Eucus Jehltarian Party is managed, that public workers will pay a special salary. They'll be booked according to the financial powers of each organization. And secondly, that the discourses I have heard have astonished me. Because, Mrs. Llanos, you started by saying, with a lot of pomp, or with a lot of seriousness, that you had to tell the truth in 2012. Now what? Do you have to tell the truth, or don't you have to tell the truth? What about the assessments and considerations that have been made by the European Commission in relation to the 2015 and 2016 budget? What do you say about the 7 billion supposed adjustment that the next government will probably have to address? Are you telling the truth, or are you not telling the truth? Is the truth being said depending on the circumstances and context in which everyone is, the context in which we live? "The government is not going to do it," you said in connection with the payment. "Why, if they knew it had to be done?". The only one who knew that it would be possible to do so was Rajoy and his campaign team, his electoral campaign team, who gave the order to Mr. Montoro so that this could be done, at the end of the year, and without taking into account the difficulties that could generate this decision in other institutions. A campaign act. Rajoy and his election campaign team knew that, I insist. It is not a matter of political will, you say. The political will of the PNV – and I have started by clearly stating what the political will of the PNV is – is clear and firm: the institutions governed by the Basque Nationalist Party will pay the full amount of the 2012 extra payment according to their possibilities and their financial-economic situation. Mrs. Sánchez, the unfair law of advance of extra pay. Well, look, I don't know if you'll know that here in Euskadi and Navarre is in the only communities in which you've moved forward... that was done according to you so unfairly to advance the payment of the payments, so that it didn't have the effect of postponing that extra pay. Only here; in no other community has the same decision been made. And it has been a decision that has favored public employees, the 70,000 public employees of the Basque Government. And they haven't done that anywhere else. But, moreover, I do not know if you have forgotten that this year's 2015 budget, we have approved it jointly. I don't know if I should remind you. They are not budgetary difficulties, he says. No, they're not budget difficulties. How can you say? What happens is that you do not know that no one in this government allows the target of the established deficit to be doubled, as you allowed one year. Then they had an economic-financial rebalancing plan. Thus, the budgetary difficulties that other public institutions are experiencing are not difficulties. Not like that. I would also like to draw attention, Mrs Llanos, to the fact that you say that the second 25% has to be paid. That, by the way, many autonomous communities governed by you and you have not paid even the first quarter, not even the first quarter. The People's Party and the Socialist Party, which so much is filled here by putting duties, where you govern do not. And they will, and they will. And another question I'm going to tell you. The Government in the texts it has approved to allow the payment of the second quarter and of 50%, in both, both in the Royal Decree-Law 10/2015 of 11 September, to which you have referred, and also in the 2016 budgets, is said to be allowed as long as, on a reasoned basis (Ms. Llanos, it is not political will), it can be stated on a reasoned basis that the financial and economic situation of the institution in question permits it. It's not political will. That's what you wrote. And you know very well that, if you do not comply with that, what can happen also depends on you, and who can suffer will be the government or the corresponding institution that does not comply with what you determine. You've done this to your liking, a year in advance. You, Mrs. Sánchez, also have a little fragile memory. Because do you remember a European summit that was held on 7 and 8 May 2010? And do you remember what happened after that European summit, who ruled in 2010 in Spain and what happened? Do you remember who and what happened as a result of that European summit? I'm going to do a little review on my own. Zapatero announced the cuts imposed by the European Union on May 10th (remember?), the reduction of salaries for civil servants, the cuts in pensions, the increase in VAT, laying down an entire economic policy followed so far (the one of the EUR 400, the one of the EUR 2,500 per birth, the aid for the rental of housing for young people, successive plans). And after that fateful 2010 you ruled, and with the support of the People's Party raised to a golden rule the fulfillment, the necessary fulfillment of the deficit objective, sacralizing the fulfillment of the deficit objective, including it in article 135 of the Spanish Constitution. You and you. And we all have to comply. And they have the courage, one and the other, to come here and teach us lessons. Before a colleague told me, Mrs Llanos, talking about this debate, about the surprise of this debate, that the People's Party follows the strategy of the pyromaniac fireman: first light the fire, then come to put it out. But don't get confused, because the pyromaniac is. The arsonist is not a fireman. Mrs. Arrido, we do not agree in your speech at all. That whatever is imposed on the Madrid must be fulfilled, we perform it, and wherever you rule it just the same. I don't like it, just the same. But if you like, we often repeat what you have been to the Allied in Gipulia, because each one leaves a mark where he is. And I have said several times here, that the more subtle pupil of Montoro has been only Mme. Franco. It hasn't been and you're the ones who do it and we have to do it. Because we have nothing else. But keep our political will clear. One, you criticized so much, the assaults on the public service, and not at all. The first thing you're going to do for years and years is that our public services, our public policies, our health training, our education, will be made and guaranteed. And secondly, as I have said, all the efforts to make this payment will be made and the whole will be paid. And in that case, the quest of the Jeltza of the Eunct Party is firm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. The turn of the team that has issued any corrections. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u130	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Mrs Llanos and the People's Party propose that we urge the Basque Government to immediately pay the officials 25% of the 2012 extra pay, and the remaining 50% in January 2016. I will vote in favour of the initiative, although I fear that we will lack sufficient votes to get this initiative going. Already at the time we opposed the cut, the abolition of the payment promoted by the Government of Spain, just as we have been opposing all the social cuts promoted by the Government of Spain or by the Basque Government: cuts in education, cuts in health care, cuts in social spending, cuts in pensions, cuts in R & D+i... We have always stood against all these cuts, all these cuts, also those pointed out by Mrs Gorospe. Of all the cuts promoted by the previous Basque government, by the Socialist Party supported by the People's Party. And also against all the cuts promoted by this Basque government of the Basque Nationalist Party. And also against all the cuts driven at the time by Mr Zapatero's government, and against all the cuts driven by the People's Party. We've always stood against it. And here, and in Spain as a whole, when resources have been lacking or are lacking, and certainly resources are always lacking, we have proposed alternatives to unjust cuts, they are called cutbacks by governments, they are called adjustments or they are called budget cuts. We have always stood against it, and we have always presented alternatives. And we have indeed talked here and in the Congress of Deputies about the need to reform the model of state. And we have talked about the reform of the Basque institutional framework and the need to abolish the parliaments or the need to abolish or merge municipalities. We have talked about the closure of a number of superfluous entities and chiringuites that exist here and in Spain as a whole. And we have talked about the need to eliminate the duplication and inefficiencies that exist in the Spanish autonomous state, and also those that provoke the Basque institutional framework. And we have talked about prioritizing the budget items that are really necessary in the face of unnecessary, identity or superfluous items. And we have always advocated productive investments in the face of pharaonic, clientel or electoral works, which have cost us so much money in recent years. And we have also talked about pushing forward and we have advocated tax reforms. And we talked about fighting more and better against tax fraud. And we have also proposed to push for anti-corruption measures. Do you know how much corruption in Spain costs? EUR 40 billion per year, according to a study recently carried out by the University of Las Palmas. We are talking about EUR 40 billion per year, and that is where we have to intervene; where this Government, and especially the Government of Spain, have to intervene, also in order to promote measures against corruption. Those are anti-popular measures, but popular in the People's Party. In the case of cuts and the abolition of salaries for public officials and employees, we have always said that this is particularly serious, because indeed public officials, public employees, are indispensable to ensure the welfare state and to satisfy the provision of public services to citizens. We talk about doctors, we talk about nurses, we talk about cops, we talk about ertzainas, we talk about teachers... , staff essential for ensuring public services. And it is not that they have had to make great sacrifices, but that great unjust cuts have been pushed against them all, having been able to push other kinds of perfectly possible measures to carry out but that the great political parties insistently refuse to push. Therefore, just as we opposed the cuts and cuts in the salaries of public employees, or their postponing in time, we argue that the Basque Government already pays what it had to cut, in fact, what it had to cut at the time, because it cut the Spanish Government. That being said, it is obviously a sarcasm that it is precisely the People's Party that demands the Basque Government to pay already what it owes to the officials, given that it was the People's Party that cut at the time. Just as it is a sarcasm that the Spanish Government decides to pay right now, or to announce that it will pay in January what it suppressed earlier, in a clearly electoral and electoral strategy. Not to mention the budgetary lies evidenced and denounced by the European Commission itself. Finally, it is a shame that this cut-off occurred at the time, and it is a shame that the return is promised in the full electoral campaign, or in the full pre-election campaign. In any case, we have been demanding that the cut be returned since 2012. We will therefore vote in favour of the initiative. Having said that, it can also be said that the decision of the Government of Spain is clearly insufficient, it is a patch, it is a raccoon measure, since the cuts are consolidated, and the welfare state has been rolled over the last few years. Therefore, it is a patch and a raccoon measure, a clearly insufficient measure. Mr Erkoreka and the Basque Government say that the economic situation of the Government does not allow it, does not allow the return of these amounts to public employees, which basically demonstrates one thing: that the Basque Nationalist Party is very poorly managed, and that it has not actually done its duties and has not promoted the reforms that Euskadi needs. In any case, I say that we will vote in favour of the initiative, and we hope that the Basque Government, if it comes out, will comply.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u131	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing the answers, the representative of the Basque Popular Group, Mrs Llanos, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u132	Thank you again, Madam President. Soon. I would like to thank Mr Maneiro for his support for the initiative. Obviously it is always conditional support, because it is accompanied by criticism, as it could not be otherwise, because, as I said before, it is never a bad time to give the Rajoy government. Do things right or don't do it, it's never a bad time. There was talk here of budget lies. The truth is that it seems that Mariano Rajoy's government was not telling the truth, and it was telling it, when it revealed how bad the economic situation was when it caught the government. And, of course, it is not the government of Mariano Rajoy, but the international organizations, which are recognizing what has been the progress that the economic situation in Spain has had in these years. And it's not about washing your face. Obviously, all the measures are always electoral, because, as always – I have said on some occasions – there are always elections near, right?So they are always electoral. Whatever choice it is, they're always electoralists. And if it's not done, it's criticized because it's not done. And it's not a question of washing your face or electoralism. It is a question, as I said before, of the economic moment at which it has been possible to do so. What is true that it is necessary to return other rights that are also being done and that have to continue to be done? Yeah. But we are talking, as I said in my first speech, about this one. The Basque Nationalist Party. Mrs. Gorospe, don't get so transcendent. I understand that coming here to say that the economic situation does not allow... What does that mean? That after three years of Mr Urkullu's government, we are economically worse than the Spanish government and economically we are worse than the Álava Parliament, for example, which has been able to pay, and that when it proposed this party was not managed by the Basque Nationalist Party. To us... It is true that it puts it in the decree: if the economic situation permits it. But we already see that after three years of nationalist rule the economic situation does not allow the payment to officials. He doesn't allow it. Then less Mr. Urkullu's flowers when he comes out here with how good we are, because we already see that we're not so good, and the officials already see, and they're the first pagans that we're not so good. One thing has failed you, because you always cling to the excuse that "It is that the central government does not leave me", and now that you leave, of course, it is that your shames have been left in the air. Of course, they leave me, and now the one who has to say it's not me. And they're saying no. Why? Because we're economically ill. Well, good to know! But I think you can do financial exercises to pay that extra pay. I believe it is a matter of political will. Look, Basque officials would have liked this to have been basic legislation as well. You would have had one more reason to complain and lament Erkoreka Tuesday, but it would have been good for the officials, because then you would have had no more trouble than paying 25%. Since you have been allowed to do what you think is appropriate, you will not receive it. And according to the Socialist Party, well, here before we've talked about Pin and Pon's farm... For you live in the worlds of Yupi, but totally and absolutely. Really. Mr. Zapatero lived in the worlds of Yupi, and so left Spain as he left it, and you still live in the worlds of Yupi, because you want to cover the sun with a finger. Because, tell me we're no better now than four years ago... Really, make him look at it! Make him look at it. And, man, it misses me... You talk about negotiation, Mrs Sánchez, and you really negotiated with the officials the 5% discount, and the officials listened to it and applauded it with their ears, and you were totally in agreement, and in a negotiation process you said, "Yes, yes, yes, we're going to lower 5%"? Come on! And here the government of Patxi López, which then against the postponement (which does not suspend it, the postponement) of the pay, as I told you before, tore the clothes, by 5% they complied without asking. At the 5% drop, without re-chis-tar. I guess negotiated with the unions, I guess, but without reching. And here I imagine, at the first point, that you... I am going to ask for the vote on points, because I do not agree with the first one, although I believe that when they speak of the "continuing annihilation of public services and the deterioration of the rights of the workers of the Government of Spain" it is essentially their government, eh! Fundamentally, from his Government. Now, it seems to me that annihilating them... He cut them down a lot, because 5% was a continuous loss, but as much as annihilating them... Now, you're going to sign it, because you don't think you're alluded to. Just like they don't think they're alluded to... Because you have a chance, look, in the budget negotiation. In the budget negotiation, put an item so that there is an appropriation to pay the extra payment. That's where they're gonna get the chance. They're going to have it! Because you're talking about the fact that these gentlemen have been ruling... But if you are the support of this government! Yes, they do not agree with eighty percent of their measures, but, still, it is broad Castile, and they approve their budgets. Well, in the budget negotiation. Because, look, in the budgets of the Álava Parliament, which I had planned... That I don't think you spoke to Mr Montoro directly, and neither did Mr Rementeria, and I also planned to return it, eh! I say you won't have a direct line, I don't know. But you foresaw, you foresaw an item for the refund of the extra pay, and you voted against those budgets. And in those here, in those of this year 2015, that there is no party, they voted yes. And in 2016? As I say to you, in my work of pythonism, which lately I'm about to dedicate myself to and buy myself a ball, they're going to vote again, and without that match. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u133	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Gather EH, Mrs. Ardon, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u134	Yeah. Miss Llanos, I will not delay to explain how we value it, and how we place the proposition which you have brought here today. Yes, it's an informal decision, in a way. On the one hand, you're destroying public service everywhere, and on the other hand you're making such a gesture, in a friendly way, because it's for you at this moment. It's not credible, I've already said your proposal. Are you really defending public employees? It's not credible and I won't repeat what I said before. And, to be honest, what you've heard, it's true that the Socialist Party isn't around to give people a lot of study about it, because it's been reduced by PSOE, as well as by PSE. I've already mentioned the down payment of 5%, the Socialist Party did, among other restrictions. And this is also a reality. But here at the moment, you said, Mrs. Gorospe, you said, no doubt, she'll pay for the extra price of 2012, and she's engaged to that economic situation when she's given the opportunity of economics. But we don't think that the economic situation of this moment does not give him a chance, we don't think it's true. As the first truth was, he couldn't help it. You will repeat, everywhere, that everybody does the same thing, but we believe it is not always so. And that there are examples to say that things have been made in another manner, both in the case of extraordinary reward, and in the neighbourhood of solstice. And we think it could be this moment. For the question is not only that of an extraordinary wages, but I have already said that what is being done here with public services is uncertain, and we are really convinced that they are weakening, that they have to be restored in the last years, and that they must be strengthened. And this is obviously connected to the budget. And the budget is just a priority thing, and that's all. And I have already mentioned, whether to pay or accept the defense line, or do I not know what game to put it to, are they before the basic themes of the people? Is it before education? Must it be before co-operation or health? Shouldn't it be priority? And I have already said that the conditions of service are highly connected with service. The non-determination does not only affect workers, but it exerts its influence on the service. And at least that's what we're talking about. And we're also talking about jobs, for instance. Yes, the theme you often talk about, and what you often say is that you have to do it and get it back. Well, we say it's very easy to start from home, and it's starting from home to recover the job that's destroyed in public services. And that's a choice. It's a decision. It's a decision and it can be done. You're surprised, you said, with both Popular Party and everybody, and you've surprised me in a certain degree, because you've thrown him, for instance, to the Poptular, to see what they've said to them from Europe, that they've got to cut down 7 million euros, and so on. And, on the one hand, Erkorek says there is no extra salary for money, and on the other hand he seems to be ready to run with them in Madrid and Ciudad. Then wonder can be here on every side, because it's really hard to understand this play for people. And that goes in there, too. And to finish it, I'd say we're still arguing about the agenda and the things that came from Madrid and what's going on. And there is also time to make decisions here about public and public services. And that's why it would be all right to go around with the reality here, to agree to what we have, what we want to get, what we need to discuss about other people's affairs, to make our own book. And that's why if we give up something in the middle, it's positive that you're asking me to do this thing, you start doing it, you know, through a collective negotiation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u136	Well, let's see, Mrs. Llanos, you rise to the rostrum as if the People's Party were the Immaculate Conception: blame is always on everyone else. What you did you had to do by imposition, he said, as if you were absolutely different. And he forgets that the extra pay..., he talks about the 5% reduction, and he forgets that taking off or suspending the extra pay in 2012 meant that the officials had a 7% reduction in their salary. And in their day they said (you said) "It is that it is extra pay!". But it's just that the extra pay is salary. It's just that I remember that that was said, that, since it's extra... I mean, the extra pay is salary, because the salary can be divided by twelve or fourteen, but it doesn't stop being salary, a salary that the worker has to receive. But he says, "No, no, it's just that we just suspended her. They'll pay for it." It's just that you've invented a lot of legal concepts in these years. They've invented the deferred layoff, and now they've invented the deferred wage. I mean, I take the pay off the month that I want the workers, and I tell them it's different and I pay it when I win. It's just that the rights of the workers can disappear, so... you lie down one day and the next day you've lost your rights, which is what you've been doing for the past four years. Recognize your mistakes! You took away 7% of that year's salary from the civil servants, and also during these four years... Yes, because not paying the extra pay at the end is getting 7% less pay. And during these four years they have continued to freeze their wages! They could have climbed them up a little bit every year, but they didn't want to. They have continued to freeze wages for four years, and have continued to punish civil servants year after year. So, don't come as if "No, guilt has everything we find." It's just that you've done that one year and another you've been punishing officials. And during these years we have experienced the worst cuts in the history of Spanish democracy in labor rights. And he's talking to me here about, "No, it's just that we're going to do it because it's improved the situation." No, we've all told you it's very clear. If it's so clear! You guys do it... They started paying it because there was a sentence that forced them, because it was appealed by the unions. It hasn't been a decision that the PP said, "I'm gonna start paying the extra pay." It's just that they forget there's a sentence that said to them, "You're bound to start having to pay that." And from there the returns begin. It's not that "Now it's better, I've decided I'm going to pay for it"... No, no! You start paying because there's a sentence you have to comply with, and from there, as we're in the electoral process, they say, "Let's return everything fast and running. I'm going to ask for a credit, and so I'm fine, and see if that's how I cheat on the officials and get a few more votes." But don't tell me about the wonder of the situation. Does the situation in the labour market look wonderful to you? Much better than the one four years ago? (Berbotsa) With precarious contracts? On precarious contracts? With young people who are no longer mileurists, who are scienteurists! Let's see, with a poverty in Spain...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u137	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u138	...as it wasn't four years ago. What are you telling me?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u139	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u140	The world of Yupi, yours. The world of Yupi, yours. Well, on the other hand...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u141	Silence. Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u142	Take it easy for me. On the other hand, I will continue with Mrs Gorospe. Well, we have a problem. When you decide to advance the extra pay, as your own name indicates, you are advancing a pay, and now there is a problem. First we have to see how those 2012 amounts are returned, but we also have the problem of what is done in the end with that advance, because, if not, there will be a month when the workers can get booed, the officials. You can stay out of charge for a month! Then you will have to meet with the workers' representatives and negotiate that situation, because we are not only talking about 50% of it being left unpaid. It's just that there's also a rule that advanced that, and it's being charged in advance. So, with all that meddling, you have to get together with the unions and decide how it is resolved in the best possible way to remain as it is negotiated with them, and that is what I told you in my speech. But that's the logical thing, the normal thing. And what has been done, and logically, is that you talk to the representatives of the workers, of the officials concerned. Decide with them, agree with them, and subscribe to them as they remain with them. And that's where the compromise amendment goes, and that's what we're asking from here. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u143	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u144	At this turn, Mrs. Arrido, I'll start the bush, I've finished and now... If you want, I'll let you finish. I don't have a pedal. It was to get the other way around. You said that public services worry you, they get weaker, and I want to say it over and over again, not at all, not at all, but at least in fun. Look, the budget, the bill that's going to be present tomorrow, is well known to you about 294 million, it will increase 294 million. From 294 million, it will be calculated to pay 181 million debt, just as you do in places where you're hired and where you work, because the calendar of the depreciation is in command. Of the 113 million remaining, 60 million workers will be paid to raise %1 and other concepts. 143 million to 60 million workers. And of the rest of the rest, I'll tell you above. Three million to direct the refugees that are to come in the Euscare, 4 million. 13,5 million for the innovation. All the money left like this to finance public service and public policy directed to the people. 60 million from $113 million to workers. So I think there's not much sense in this argument, which you say much. Maneiro, you were talking about the PNV being a bad manager. Look, the PNV obviously I was going to say that it's like evidence: for years, and in a lot of managed institutions as it shows, it's good manager. What we don't have is the opportunity to know how UPyD is managing, because you've never managed anything. And, of course, from which you have no responsibility to manage, it is very easy to make the speeches you make. Mrs Llanos, the Parliament of Álava, the Parliament of Gipuzkoa, many municipalities..., many have paid according to their financial and economic situation. Not just the Álava Diputation. And it will be paid in the rest of the institutions as well. We were talking about telling the truth, and they remembered it. You, Mrs Llanos, belong to a parliamentary group that supported budgets in the previous legislature that multiplied by ten the debt we have to deal with now. And that leads the current government to allocate, of 294 million increments, 181 million to comply with the planned amortization schedule. And those budgets were approved by you. The level of indebtedness of the current Basque Government was approved by you. And budgetary rigour and seriousness... The truth is that it seems very questionable to us, because we do not know what the rigour and budgetary seriousness you are defending is. Because it seems incredible that we were going to hear the PP say that we have to be in debt to finance something that is not investment, or that we have to fail to meet the goal of the deficit, which was so sacred until now, and pass the brown to the next government, or fail to comply with what you yourselves set out in the actual legislative decrees. You know, it's always been an off-line for you to manage the organization. It's been a financial seriousness and precision, as the president says it over and over again, one of the Red Mitch's business principles. Finally, I'd like to repeat that the firm commitment to the Jeltist Party will be paid to pay the full salary, and that's how it's paid when the financial situation makes it easy for you and your other organizations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Maneiro mustn't talk. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote as much as Euskalka Potula. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 11. The contrary, 36; white, 0; abstaining, 26.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u146	So he didn't accept it. Next up, EHG and the Special Socialist Basque Amendment signed. Do you vote on points? No, okay. We'll vote for her as a whole. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 37; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 36.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-29.u147	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. The subject list has run out, the whole meeting ends. It was 6 p.m. and 7 p.m.
