ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, remember that the new House of Earth has been delegated to the parliamentary vote. I also inform you, that the fifth point in the subject-list is to be discussed in the first place, that the first point has been withdrawn and the fourth is the proposition of the same as that of the Chinese team of Euscal, that what was withUPyD has also been withdrawn. Five point in theme list: "Mutation, published by the members of the U.S.A.A.A.A.A.U.A.A.A.D.D. de Angulo EH.S.C.S.S.S.S.A.S.A.S.A.A.A. Discipline and final resolution. In the turn of the party that made the proposal, Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u1	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, Chief, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, good morning. At the check meeting in March 13 we entered a detailed interpelation with the Chief Toñan. On that day, and even today, it was our intention to inquire about the proposal allowed to extend the system of defence to people who are unemployed. The reply of the chief physician to EH was not clear; therefore, in the gathering of the whole evening, in order to end the situation of 100,000 persons, we propose our exact proposals. But before the content of our motion is explained, and the subject is to be established, it is proper that we should go to the foundation of our problem. We mention in our motion the number of long-term unemployed people who are talking about François 100,000 people who aren't working for more than two years, we're talking about the number of people who don't have any economic help. In Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa today there are 100,000 unemployed and unemployed who do not receive any State benefits. On the other hand, of the 66,373 citizens receiving GIR, some 50,000 are active. So, what are the other 50,000 people who are out of the system living, or malliving? This question was also asked to the advisor at the inquiry. And above all, and most importantly, what can we do among all of us to ensure that this large group of people abandon the situation of severe poverty or the risk of exclusion in which they find themselves? We ask ourselves over and over what we can do, because we have seen no proposal or change in the last month. We've heard about it that you're saying, "We can't do everything, but we do what we can as much as the means allow." It is clear that in the Basque institutions there is not enough money we would like to invest in fine housing, society, and employments. Parliament urges us to take steps to strengthen our social protection system. "Nondik aterako dugu straight?", galdetzen zion saltburuak beer burrs. On the other hand, when the Chief Toña department came to present us at the Eplea Plane evaluation committee, he agreed that we must be more ambitious, and that we must do more. That's why we decided to face it and try to turn this difficult situation through five precise proposals of our own. On the other hand, before yesterday we analyzed the latest data on unemployment, data that we publicly admit are good, but in the same way we also point out that we must take them with caution, and that we cannot fall into the self-congratulation that we so often quote here. Because it is not good to make a biased reading of the data, among other things because we cannot avoid that we are faced with a great contradiction: langabetu kopurua jaitsi da, baina horrek ez du esan nahi gehiengoen bizi baldintzak hobetu direnik. Eustaten, EAPN and Cáritasen iritziz, gaur betan komunikabideek jasotzen duten bezala, arrakala soziala gero eta mandiagoa da. Hilabete askotan zehar salatu dogu porezia kronifikatzen ari dela éta ezbairik gabe gero eta zailagoa izango da kronifikazio horretatik personsonak aterazea. In South Euscala, 200,000 people are unemployed and 423 thousand people are in danger of poverty. That's the contradiction. So, if we want to talk honestly, obviously it's not the right time to talk about self-consciousness. And how is it possible that, with less unemployment, the social gap and the number of people in poverty do not fall? To answer this question we should stop to think carefully about what kind of employment is being created, what types of contracts are being processed. If we are talking about jobs with weekly contracts, if we are talking about miserable wages, which have to be complemented by GIR, if we are dealing with youth employment programmes based on scholarships and temporary contracts, if we are aware that in 95% of cases contracts are temporary, if we know for sure that at least 50% of people who for two years are trying to reintegrate into work do not get it, we now understand why, even though the number of unemployed and unemployed is falling, the situation of people in social exclusion, poverty or extreme poverty is not improving. This is diagnosis, and here we have agreed to develop our proposition by groups in March, which has been carried on in the field of neglect: First, in order to ensure access to a number of people who don't have social rights, we ask him to give us a technical examination of the rights received in 18/2008 law. Secondly, to make them know the rights received in this law, and to give them their prestige, we ask you again to discuss a campaign with the most active societies. The third, in order to expand to young men who are above the age of 18, and who are unemployed, and to push their own path, we ask them to disperse the page of the course. Fourth, we're asking you to make changes in November 24/2011. 6. To reduce the censusation of article 6, and abolish Article 9. And the fifth, and finally, we ask RGI to add 10% and take away the rate of PCV's 250 euros. Five concrete proposals, which seek to develop a prior agreement signed between several groups in this House in order to improve the situation of thousands of Basques and Basques who for different reasons fail to emerge from the painful and unjust situation in which they find themselves...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u2	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u3	Thank you. We've already made a note of what you've been saying about this, but we haven't given the opinion of all the other teams who introduced it. It seems to us today that EAJ has made a full correction to himself and to himself: Today you propose less than agreed on March 5th. In March, we were saying that if you want to make it stronger, you're gonna have to take care of our backup system. What for? Now, for the sake of the least weighty conditions of life, you ask to maintain the defence system, and, as far as possible, for the sake of improvement, since that system is an example of solidity and poverty and social neglect. What's changed? Why don't you set the terms today and not March? Why today do you add "as far as possible"? We're standing in front of a step back, remarkable in what's growing money. Party Popular? Now the Party is still in its line: it allows us to improve the protection system, well, but not to measure it. They talk about remedying the shortcomings identified in Lanbide, so that the financial benefits reach the people who really need it. You continue to claim that there are people who don't really need it. I told your groupmate: for us and we there are people who need it, and point. We don't think there are people who need it or not, and we need to make distinctions. Finally, the Socialist Group has presented us with a proposal that is too general, in our view. On the contrary, EH Bildu intends to contextualise and concreteise this proposal, although it is possible that in some aspects that you propose we will coincide and that in the future we will be able to resume it. And the same goes for the rest of the groups. If we wish to develop a real change, to strengthen our protection system, and to guarantee the dignity of all men, we must develop strong and effective measures.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u4	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u5	EH Collect presents hiss tonight. These may be, or they may be improved more, but they can always be advanced, not backward, as others have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, Mrs. Sarasa, representative of the Basque Socialist group. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u7	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Egun on, ladies and gentlemen, lehendakari, counselor. In the current economic context, any impetus to alleviate the tragedy of unemployment must be received in a positive way in this House. The latest unemployment figure in the month of May in Euskadi indicates that the number of unemployed has fallen by 5,334; however, when we focus the detail on the quality of the job created we see that there are still worrying indicators: the low quality of the job created, with a really worrying temporality. 70% of the jobs created are in the services sector, which is highly volatile. At the same time, the industrial sector's share of the decline in the number of unemployed was 16 %. Of the contracts signed, only 6% were of an indefinite nature. In Euskadi in May, 1% less indefinite contracts were signed than in April, and 16.6% more temporary contracts, with wages that do not allow people who find a job to meet their basic needs. These data are worrying, and the Socialists refuse this situation to come to stay. There is a need to create jobs, decent and quality jobs, allowing individuals and families to arrive at the end of the month and meet their basic needs, without having to go to the social protection system. It is mandatory to refer to the report presented yesterday by Caritas Euskadi, which in 2014 served almost 50,000 people. Caritas does not perceive that the economic improvement that is being announced is reaching out to the people it serves. They claim that poverty and social vulnerability continue to grow, even among those who have found a job. This fact is supported by the data provided by Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service, which indicates that 18% of those who have found employment continue to receive social benefits to supplement their labour income and to be able to pay their basic expenses, and this is also very worrying. They also warn from Caritas that 31% of the people served in 2014 have been receiving their aid for more than five years, while in 2009 this rate was only 19%, which leads them to conclude that the poverty situation in Euskadi persists and is being chronicled. The Basque social protection system is now the last guarantee for thousands of people and families to meet their most basic needs and prevent them from falling into social exclusion. However, we must not just be content with providing social protection. Public policies must be ambitious, in order to avoid the chronicity of poverty and to achieve the generation of decent and quality employment. We need to talk about the generations mortgaged in this crisis, about young people, prepared people who are going to work abroad; about generations excluded from the system, over forty-five, over fifty-five, who have been unemployed for more than three years and who feel they do not have a chance in the labour market, and who are also thinking about leaving. The basis for economic recovery lies in public policies that encourage decent and quality employment, health, education, pensions, social protection, wealth redistribution, narrowing the inequality gap, fairer and fairer fiscal policies, transparency and good management of public resources. The data speak for themselves to realize that a government can't just be notary and tell what's going on on the street in the media, day by day as well. Above the data, of the percentages, there are people who do not even meet their basic needs, who are unemployed and who do not find work, and who are more and more every day. And this requires a Basque Government to take urgent measures to tackle unemployment and poverty. 360,000 people at risk of social exclusion, the sixth part of the Basque population, and 113,000 of them at risk of severe exclusion, require a greater effort by the Basque Executive. A year and a half ago the Socialists presented in the House a non-legislative proposal on a special plan against poverty and social exclusion, in which we urged the Basque Government to cooperate with the outlaws and municipalities, to draw up, promote and implement a special plan against poverty and social exclusion for those municipalities and regions that, due to special circumstances, need short- and medium-term joint action, and to take the necessary measures to promote the socio-occupational integration of people at risk or social exclusion. A year and a half ago, the socialists proposed joint inter-institutional plans and strategies that would enable the different actors to coordinate their interventions on the basis of common objectives, approaches and indicators, and we called on the Basque Government to take decisions. Structural decisions, which address the causes of the problem, and urgent decisions, which have immediate effects. Decisions that must have a broad social agreement. Decisions that encourage employment and social protection. Six months ago, on 7 November 2014, this Parliament held a full monograph on the comprehensive strategy to be developed by the Basque Government to tackle unemployment and poverty. The Socialists presented twenty-three motions for resolutions to alleviate unemployment and poverty, the situations of need that thousands of people are going through, of Basque families who, as a result of this long and profound crisis, are in unemployment and do not find work, or who, having a job, their wages are not guaranteed enough to live with dignity. Today we are again discussing poverty and social exclusion, the unemployed and the Basque social protection system. EH Bildu raises in the operative part of the motion five points referred to in Law 18/2008, the Law for the Guarantee of Income and Social Inclusion, to exercise rights contained in the law, to know and to exercise these rights, and proposes amendments to two specific articles. But the problem goes far beyond that. The People's Party, for its part, reframes its amendment in the speech that aid should reach those who really need it. They do not seem to understand that those who come to apply for aid are because they do not have a job, or because their salary is low and they have to supplement it, because they do not arrive at the end of the month; that it is unemployment and job insecurity that has triggered the poverty rate and inequality in our Autonomous Community (and in Spain to a greater extent), and it has been precisely the policies of the People's Party that have brought us here. The amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party bets to maintain and improve (and that is fine, but you say "to the extent possible"), "to the extent possible, the existing social protection system, as an example of solidarity and the fight against poverty and social exclusion". But they do not specify measures regarding what is "the measure of what is possible". The Socialist Group's amendment contains proposals which have already been approved in this Parliament and supported by the parliamentary groups in the House. Proposals to avoid the chronicity of poverty and to achieve the generation of decent and quality jobs, because that is the basis of the problem. The Socialists are going to keep our amendment as a whole, considering that the proposals of the rest of the groups are obvious to talk about in their amendments and address the main problem: unemployment and job insecurity, which is the one that leads people to poverty and the risk of social exclusion. The Socialists are committed to a Basque system of income guarantee and sound social inclusion, which restricts situations of poverty and social exclusion, which contributes to maintaining social cohesion, favours the transition to employment and guarantees the dignity of those who cannot join employment, or those who, even if they are employed, or who are recipients of a pension, do not obtain the minimum income determined. Without forgetting that the integration of income guarantee and social inclusion systems with active employment policies is necessary and improveable, requiring an improvement in management, both in human resources and in Lanbide materials. The Socialists in our amendment call on the Basque Parliament to make a commitment to strengthen the Basque system of income guarantee and social inclusion, based on income guarantee, supplementary housing provision and social emergency aid, against whom it intends to cut them. The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, taking into account the special difficulties faced by many families in meeting all their basic needs, people living in poverty and social exclusion, as well as those who are running out of any kind of unemployment benefit, to develop and complete our protection system, in order to integrate into it those who are now excluded, by arbitrating the necessary measures to meet their needs, if the measures provided for in the guarantee rent and emergency aid were not sufficient, proposing even the necessary regulatory changes. Secondly, the Basque Parliament considers it urgent to promote the creation of quality jobs that will enable citizens to meet all their needs sufficiently. In this regard, it urges the Government of Spain to repeal the labour reform, which only facilitates dismissals and which also leaves thousands of workers at the expense of their employer's will, favours unstable recruitment, allows the discretionary reduction of wages, and is impoverishing thousands of workers who need to go to public aid to complete their low income. The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to promote decent working and wage conditions in the use of its powers, including those relating to the equality of men and women in access to the labour market. In addition, the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to present to the House, as soon as possible, the report committed in November 2014 on real poverty resulting from job insecurity and wage insufficiency, which brings to light situations now hidden about job poverty, as well as that of young people without emancipation or self-employed people...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u8	Finish up, Mrs. Sarasa.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u9	... so that direct measures can be taken as soon as possible – I conclude – to correct his situation; to establish a comprehensive policy to combat poverty in the family sphere; also to improve and speed up the operation of Lanbide, and to forward to the House the evaluation and results of the actions carried out to date of the III Plan for Active Inclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. Mrs Garrido, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, members of the legislature. It is true, not long ago, that some of the EH Collectations had been discussed in the same way in this Chamber. It is true that we have had other disputes on this subject, which have been introduced by the Poptulars; well, and sometimes we have had no discussion, but it is certain that we have often discussed this subject in this legislature. In the proposition presented by the EH Collector, it proposes a change in the law of remuneration, some of which are concerned with the agreement made by the Socialist Party and by the Poptular Party on the system, and we have discussed this subject in the case of this law. But other requests are new. The Euscataian support system is one of the most advanced in Europe and Spain and one of the solidaries. It's one of the solids of people with needs. Another autonomy spends more than in communities if we look at budgets, which we see in the budgets that are tested every year, or in the budgets which are sent to this Chamber, clearly and distinctly, the amount of money is spent. Indeed, according to the unemployment data, there are more than 5,000 fewer people on the unemployment lists, on the Lanbide lists, and this also leads us to have to bear in mind that as long as there are still people on the unemployment lists, and also obviously in Basquedi, we must continue to take measures to consolidate economic recovery and measures to reduce the unemployment rate. The Euskadi protection system is one of the most advanced, most supportive systems, not only of the rest of Spain, but of the rest of Europe, and it is one of the most supportive systems with people in need, the most vulnerable. This is also clearly reflected in the amount of money that is budgeted annually in the budgets to cover the economic benefits provided for in the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act. We are talking about EUR 461 million of money, the amount earmarked for RGI and supplementary housing benefit, to which social emergency aid should also be added, which, while paid by the Basque Government, is managed directly by the municipalities. In this sense, Euskadi accounts for 40% of the minimum income for the integration of all the Autonomous Communities. We in this Parliament – already in other legislatures, but especially in this Parliament – have raised debates in this House with the aim of improving the functioning of the system. Mrs Blanco said that we have tabled a very general amendment. Well, I believe that this is what came from the initiative that you have put forward for debate in this House, which, as I said, is not the first time that you have made demands in the proposed direction, but having made a general amendment is what is happening, especially given that we have a popular legislative initiative that also raises changes to improve the protection system in Euskadi, which is already being dealt with in this House. As I said, the system's operating deficits are there, and for us the system is clearly improved. As regards the management of social aid, the economic benefits provided for in the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act, I believe that it has been clear that there are clear areas of improvement in the processing of the supplementary housing benefit and GIR files themselves. There are also clear areas of improvement in the operation of Lanbide itself in the management of these benefits, and this is corroborated by the data on undue charges or payments, i.e. irregularities that have occurred due to the operation of Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service, whose amount, in parliamentary response, has been €86.7 million, from which approximately €60 million has not been recovered, also according to parliamentary replies. There are also abusive and fraudulent situations that are there, and we all know news, which are also published in the media, and which have also amounted to EUR 20.9 million. And, therefore, measures must be put in place to tackle these abusive, fraudulent situations, but in order for the aid to reach the people who really need it. Because in the system there have to be people who really need it, not people who are in the system and who do not meet the requirements, or who have changed their circumstances and no longer have to be in the system. The system obviously has to be people who need it to get out of their situation of need and vulnerability. We therefore believe that it is necessary to adopt measures to address those operating deficits, and that such functioning is efficient. It is clear that the system has gaps and that it is essential to scale measures in order to make it effective. Porque el objectitiv del system es que seo justo y solidario. The goal is to have a fair and solid system and to get help for those who need it. On the other hand, we have also denounced and criticised that Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service does not meet the end of employability, the need to link the system to employability, activation for the employment of persons receiving social assistance, and that the system is not fulfilling these objectives, which Lanbide has also mandated in accordance with current legislation. The intermediation rate is very low. At the beginning of the legislature, we were given the figure of 2.1%. Recently, in a parliamentary response, it was said that this figure had risen to 2.6%. That figure is absolutely low in relation to the objectives set, and in that sense I do want to point out the objective, the commitment of the Basque Government in relation to a resolution adopted in the Basque Parliament, to raise that rate from 2 to 5 % in this Parliament. It seems that at the rate we are going, it is far from achieving that goal. We therefore believe that the way forward must be corrected in order to achieve results, effective results, and that the objective for persons receiving social assistance is their employment inclusion, their reintegration into employment, and of course employability. And in that sense, the system clearly makes water. And then take steps to make Lanbide efficient and, as I said earlier, achieve its objectives. I shall refer to the amendments tabled. Well, as far as the initial initiative is concerned, we don't think it's realistic. It is an absolutely demagogic initiative. It is not accompanied by the economic impact that many of the proposed measures would have, leading to a clear lack of rigour in the initiative. On the other hand, with regard to the amendments that have been tabled, well, I think they are all very general too, because in the end we have all also understood that this debate will take place in the near future in this House. And with regard to the Socialist Party's amendment, I have to say that, well, these are generalities that could be supported, but that there is a lack of concreteness in the sense of greater demands on the Basque Government in relation above all to the deficits and shortcomings detected. And then there is a point where there is no chance of coincidence, which is the issue of labour reform, as the Socialist Party can imagine. In relation to the other amendment tabled, which is very general, it is that of the Basque Nationalist Party, which is committed to "maintaining and improving as far as possible the existing social protection system, example of solidarity and the fight against poverty and social exclusion". This is something that we can agree with, but it can certainly also be kept short, because they also say "as far as possible", when it is clear that, according to the data, according to the debates that have already taken place in this House, it is clear that there are areas of improvement in which concrete actions need to be arbitrated and implemented for their improvement. Finally, we have tabled an amendment, but I believe that it essentially reflects the positions of the People's Party and the points that we consider absolutely essential in relation to the defence of the protection system, with an improvement of this system as well as of the functioning of Lanbide, obviously in order to ensure that the benefits provided by the law reach the people who need it and that the employability of the recipients of social assistance is fulfilled. In principle we will maintain our amendment, which is obviously the one we will support. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u12	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs. Arreg, Eubertarians represent the team. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. We have a question of the motion that allows us to extend our support to the unemployed autonomous systems of Erdience. 'Esunk' works for all the people who are in a bad condition, and for those who are unemployed, who are using our society as a means of protection for that purpose. As the Chief of Toñas said, "Rodages of incomes, Hostation of Houses, and Helps to remash the revenues, so that the people who fill the rules, don't fall into neglect." Besides, I'm sure you're in the habit of setting the contractors on the terms to create jobs. This same week, as some other spokespersons have said, we have learned that the number of unemployed has been cancelled: 5,934 people in unemployment. In May, there has been the greatest downfall of unemployment that has been recorded for the past ten years. The annual balance shows a decline in unemployment for already eighteen consecutive months, with an increasing tendency to widen the distance with the situation of the same month of the previous year. In addition, the Social Security registry has experienced an increase of 4,593 new affiliations, and fixed contracts are already growing at the pre-crisis pace. It is therefore clear that the measures and plans put in place by the Basque Government are bearing fruit. At the beginning of the legislature the lehendakari announced that the first two years would be hard, very hard, in terms of the employment situation and economic revival, and that later it would begin to improve little by little. And so it is. Although the opposition has tired of saying that the Basque Government was paralysed, lacking ideas, the data show the opposite. The Government has sown, put the limbs and conditions to generate employment, and now the fruits are being reaped. And let's hope we can keep picking until the harvest is exceptional. So, from time to time, the facts reflect, it goes to a better situation, without forgetting the difficulties we've been in, and the funk's been playing the part that's been playing for the job is starting to work. Mrs Blanco, in the question to the councillor, you mentioned the compromise reached on the adequacy of the ESA regulatory decree, to which you also mentioned today, that the GNP was talking about responding to new realities that arose during the crisis in order to avoid or alleviate situations of social exclusion and new situations of uncovered poverty. For the Government has been working, and has already developed a draft including several novel aspects, which has not yet been dealt with in the Inter-Agency Body for Social Services because, due to the elections, Eudel understood that it was better to wait for the constitution of new municipalities and deputies to make decisions on this matter. But I am going to advance some of the things that that draft includes, some of the measures. Issues relating to energy poverty, which we have discussed on many occasions in this Parliament. Possibility also to enable the municipalities to pay the aid. It is also accepted that municipalities can allocate up to 8% to situations of need that are not foreseen or described in the ESA legislation but that are considered an emergency by municipalities, highlighting the best knowledge of the specific situations themselves, because they are the institutions closest to the citizen. Also included are measures to respond to the mortgage problem. As the chairman of the Toñan Department explained, he's making a clear bet for the maintenance of the social welfare we're having and improvement as far as possible, an example of improvement, which I've just mentioned to you, from the origin of a bill of legislation. In like manner, he has also set up the measures to promote employment from the first day of his arrival in the Encygus, and the Department of Society. And as has been shown, precautions and plans are gradually giving positive consequences, and make us see the future with hope. Therefore, having the social protection system that we have, which is also being adapted to respond to unplanned realities, on the subject of the regulatory decree of the ESAs, and having the employment and economic recovery measures and plans, which are giving objective and positive results, we will not support the Bildu initiative. And we want to say, with regard to its first point, that we do not see the need for a technical study. There are already studies on which the Government has relied and which were also mentioned in that March debate, in order to be able to amend the regulatory decree of the ESAs in order to solve new realities not previously contemplated. As for the second point, we believe that our social protection system is known to us, and is set up as a model for continuing it in the State and in the level of Europe, so that we do not think it necessary to perform a proper campaign in order to make the system known, or to employ economic resources for this purpose. In the third, round the fourth and fifth points, they ultimately suppose a change of law. Every year, EH Collect brings the same request to the legislature, though it is not so exact or so clear that it may be half camouflaged in the course of the year. Our attitude is known about change of law, so that we will no longer repeat our arguments. We have to say about the Socialist Party correction that we speak of everything, it treats concrete and general matters. In our humble opinion, literature is too much. We understand that it seeks to cover each and every one of the Socialist Group's positions and initiatives relating to the Department of Employment and Social Policy, such as a rejection of the Rajoy Government's labour reform, which we have already strongly rejected on several and multiple occasions. It gives the impression that more questions of the scope of the explanatory statement are included in the operative part, trying to justify why it is requested, which has made it difficult to enter into negotiations, especially when the original initiative was very concrete. There are a number of other issues that we cannot accept, because it speaks, for example, of amending the regulation to accommodate cases other than those covered by the law, which is to act against legem. That is why we will not support the amendment to the whole Socialist Party. Azkenik, Alderdi Popularraren osoko zuzenketari dagokionez, we have been close to reaching a compromise, although in the end it has not been possible. And we thought we would abstain from his amendment to the whole, because we agree with what they are asking for, since the Government has been working on the improvement of Lanbide since it acquired the responsibilities of government, and also on the improvement of the existing social protection system, so that none of the people who meet the requirements of the law will be left out of the system. But having heard your speech, Mrs Garrido, to mix once again fraud with aid, we are going to vote against it. And we're just gonna protect ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u15	Good morning. Thank you, President. A very interesting initiative is being discussed one day after Caritas has submitted a report, in particular its 2014 memory, which again shows what we already know and that some of us have been reporting for a long time, and it is the fact that in Euskadi there are thousands of people who are suffering, who are suffering from the economic crisis, poverty, job insecurity and social exclusion. We know very well, and we hear it whenever we debate this issue, that Euskadi has a good system of social protection, of which we are all proud, but this is not an obstacle for certain measures to be put forward to improve that system and to cater for thousands of citizens who remain outside that system today and who are therefore not receiving the response they deserve from the various institutions. It seems to us that the proposals put forward by the group that has presented this initiative are generally correct. Sooner or later, in one way or another, these are matters that we have defended in this House, at least some of them. And what EH Bildu proposes is to conduct a technical study on the requirements for exercising the rights contained in the Income Guarantee Act, in order to ensure access to many people who currently have needs and remain outside the perception of those rights. We could share this. It is also proposed to design a campaign to publicize and promote the rights contained in the Act. It is also proposed to design a road map to extend the rights collected and this law to young people over the age of eighteen who are unemployed. And to make a number of legal amendments that are clearly set out there, which they would seek to correct certain cuts that have been promoted in recent years in that law. Shortcuts that we ourselves, when they were carried out, denounce and under no circumstances do we support. Finally, it is proposed to increase income guarantee income aid by 10% and to remove the economic ceiling of EUR 250 in the supplementary housing benefit, in order to overcome the cuts made and maintained in the GIR and in the supplementary housing benefit. In general, we can share the proposals put forward by the proposing group. Perhaps proposal No 3 is the most doubtful proposal, but in general, and in relation to the others, we share it, we have been defending it, and, in relation to the cuts that are denounced there, we have clearly opposed those cuts when they were carried out by this House. However, there is not enough consensus to implement these changes. It's not that there's no consensus, it's that there's not enough support. These initiatives and proposals can be brought in as many times as necessary, but there is a broad bloc in this House that will repeatedly vote against these proposals. In fact, some of the cuts that are reported in this GNP were agreed by the Basque Socialist Party and the People's Party in the past parliamentary term, and the Basque Nationalist Party today supports them, with which, let us say, there is not much to say on this issue. It is a debate that today, taking into account the majorities and minorities of this House, because it is a lost debate, which does not have the opportunity to move forward. Having said that, I would also like to say to Mrs Arregi and the Government in general that they do not look so much at the few achievements that have been made; certainly, none of them merit this Government, but the result of certain international data, the result of data that do not arise as a result of the policies implemented by this Government. Do not look so much at the few achievements made, especially by the Government, but above all at how much remains to be done. The Government should be working on that, not to say that membership had increased a certain percentage clearly insufficient, or that unemployment had been reduced by a minimum of figures. What needs to be addressed mainly is the reality in which thousands of Basque citizens find themselves victims of the economic situation, poverty, social exclusion, or jobs that are clearly precarious. That should be what this Government should be about, and even that should also be what the group that supports the Government should talk about. I do not think the situation is like rocketing, I do not think the situation is like being proud of this government on this issue. Therefore, do not look so much at the few achievements made, and especially at the thousands of Basque citizens who are victims of poverty; of child poverty, of energy poverty, of job insecurity and of so many situations that we have been reporting during all these months. We have not tabled an amendment, but we are finally going to vote on the Socialist Group's amendment. We generally share everything that is proposed in that amendment. I think it is a very complete amendment, perhaps overly generic or inconcrete in some of its points, but I think it perfectly points out everything that should be done. And they are also issues on which we have already positioned ourselves in this Parliament and which this Parliament has supported in the past. In particular, improve to strengthen the Basque system of income guarantee and social inclusion. In particular, develop and complete the protection system in order to integrate into it those who are now excluded. Also the proposal to again urge the Government to repeal the labour reform, a labour reform that has caused job insecurity and the emergence of a new social class, of workers who do not reach the end of the month. Or initiatives such as presenting in the House as soon as possible the report committed in November 2014, on real poverty resulting from job insecurity and wage insufficiency. I believe that these are measures that should go ahead and that we, in any case, will support. The Government was also urged to establish a comprehensive anti-poverty policy. Here are the data, reflected not only in the study made public yesterday, but in all the studies that have been made public in recent months: the poverty that exists, child poverty, energy poverty... In short, dramatic situations that suffer thousands of Basque citizens. And we also propose, we will support the Government's call to improve and speed up the operation of Lanbide, for a more effective treatment of income-guarantee income and supplementary housing benefits, and for Lanbide to be definitely useful also in creating decent and quality jobs, and to fulfil its main role, which is that of employability and job inclusion for thousands of Basque citizens who are unemployed. So, finally, let us support the Socialist Group's amendment. It seems to us that it is the most complete and the one that is also in the best position to approve this House. That's why he's going to have our vote. And, I say, we must continue to urge the Government to take letters on the matter, to look at the situation in which there are thousands of Basque citizens. Not in those small positive data, but in the evil that thousands of Basque citizens are going through. To this day I believe that the Basque Government has not only shown itself to be insensitive, but clearly incapable of dealing with all these situations, and therefore our mission as an opposition group is to look to the Government to demand much more than it has done so far. We are going to abstain on the original proposal, and we are going to vote in favour of the Socialist Group's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u16	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u17	Thanks again. I'm gonna start by answering Mrs. Garrido. When you say that this ILP will come to improve the system, let me tell you that I hope it is the minority opinion of this House. At least we do not share that approach. You say that people who need it should go to the system, not those who do not meet the requirements. Look, the requirements are regulated in the law itself! They are regulated in the law itself. That's where you pick up who has to get those rights and who doesn't. It is set out in the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act. I would therefore like to be made clear in the second round specifically to which people you are referring. I believe that what you are proposing is different, because what we and we are trying to do with this proposal is to give a way out, among other things, to those people who are staying out of the system right now. On the other hand, what you are trying to do is to get a certain group of people out of the system, which is just the opposite. That's why today I think we were at two absolutely opposite poles. Too much lady, yes, unemployment has come down. We said it and it's good news, but the social crack is getting bigger and bigger. That's true, and the facts say so. They say it to-day, and it is to-day that we receive it in the media, and then we must reflect deeply. I mean, lowering unemployment isn't enough. Unemployment is falling, but we have a group of people and families there that do not come out of that situation. So it seems to us that a proposal, a general amendment at the moment, does not take place. It does not take place, because, as we also told the adviser, new proposals must be made in the face of new situations. We'll see that decree. We haven't seen him. When we see it, if they are willing to teach it to us before it was approved, as the proposition not of law said, then we will be able to evaluate it. And you say that people already know what social rights exist? Allow me to doubt it, because... It is not only to get to know each other, that there are many people who do not know what their rights are, but also to gain access without stigmatization. Because we know that today there are many people who prefer to throw away their family, throw away their friends, before going to the basic social service, because it is simply a hurry for them to go to the basic social service. Then, against that, we will also have to make a campaign, similar to that made in Gipuzkoa, in a positive and purposeful way, for people to come and claim their rights. During the election campaign, we have spoken of these different political groups in one sense or the other of social right. After elections have passed, we've noticed that what some public people used to say is stopped in words. It is very nice to defend social rights in an election campaign and two weeks later to forget everything. We do not understand why, when an occasion like this is presented, like the one we have brought here, that we have admitted that they are proposals that could be improved (points could be removed, they could be added...), but when an occasion like this is presented, again you remain in generalities, without realising anything. Nothing new, just like before. And, we repeat, in the face of new situations, new measures, because, if not, we are not going to get those people, that group of people, those families, ever out of the situation in which they find themselves. The bet of two weeks ago, therefore, of some groups, ethereal, propaganda, or lack of courage. You'll know. As you will also know, I suppose, that we will bring this problem back to this rostrum. Mrs Arregi says we do it every year. We will, of course, do it again until we get the majority support. And we will also bring concrete proposals based on social justice, because they are within our political project, and they will continue to be. Because the struggle for social rights and social justice is part of our own personality and political ideology, and because the steps we take will always be, always, to move forward in this direction, to move forward in social rights, and not to step back. Mr Toña – and I would have told Mr Urkullu too, if he had been in the chair – in our view, this is a challenge that we have right now, one of the most important challenges we have to address, sincerely. They know that our proposal is consumable. And they also know that their response in this case is insufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists represent the group. Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u19	Nothing, simply to thank the groups that are going to support the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, and to say that we are concerned about the people who are unemployed and who want to work, who want to find decent and quality jobs, and also those families who do not currently have enough income to meet their basic needs. And that is what we have reflected in our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u21	Yes, with permission, from the seat. I was told by EH Bildu's spokesman, Mrs Blanco, that with "those who meet the requirements", what I meant. For, obviously, there are indeed stipulated requirements, the last legislature were modified at the request of an agreement between the Socialist Party and the People's Party... You are the ones who are proposing to change today, which you have already done on other occasions. We thought that the change that was signed in that pact and embodied in that pact was good for improving the system and, of course, also for ensuring the sustainability of the system, making it more just and more supportive. Of course, we are in radically opposed positions. Then there are requirements and they will have to be met, and those in the system will also have to continue to meet those requirements as long as they continue to receive benefits. That is why also in that agreement between the Socialist Party and the People's Party, the deadlines for revising these requirements were being changed, in order to effectively make further revisions, because situations were being detected in which situations changed, the circumstances of perceptors, and were not being communicated. Therefore, our message is very clear, I believe that a majority of Basque citizens support it, that aid should reach those who really need it. I believe that it is a starting point that makes the system truly fair and supportive, which is what it has to be. And then another part and another leg of our discourse is that the end of the system is employability, that people in the system have an opportunity to access the labour market, and that's where Lanbide enters. And we have questioned the operation of Lanbide, not only in the management of these services, but also in the fulfilment of this purpose. Undoubtedly, Mrs Arregi, there are situations of fraud, abuse... I regret that once again the Basque Nationalist Party does not want to see them, but there they are, and you were, in fact, about to have signed, to have reached an agreement with the People's Party. And that was what the People's Party amendment was about. Not only that, of course, but there are situations that need to be addressed, that need to be improved, that need to be addressed. And abusive, fraudulent situations, and we're getting news every day about this... Here are the data also given by the Basque Government, official data, are there, and of course what I do not understand is that the party that supports the Government and this Government continue to deny the reality, that I believe that weak favor does that position to Basque citizens, especially with a view to improving the system, which, as has been seen, is clearly better. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u22	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Eubertarians represent the team. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u23	Thank you again, Mrs. President. That's what people want, that's their motto, not just stupid, but that's what they're doing in all their politics. And yes, we agree, and we know that the data from the investigation that Ceritas published yesterday is there, and, of course, he's worried about the government and is taking measures. Eta lehen esan doubt bezala, since the first day he arrived in the government, the Basque Government is working to reverse the employment situation, for the employability to which Mrs. Garrido referred, so that no one stays out of the system... We have an important social protection system, which of course is improveable (everything is improveable), and here we have that March agreement, which was also approved by this group and which, as I have put it, there is an existing draft implementing that mandate in which improvements are made, and which could not be discussed in the relevant body because Eudel understood that, with the elections, it was better to wait for the new municipalities to be constituted. We do not enter into any complacency, Mr. Maneiro. The Basque Government does what it does is act, work and take steps within the measures, because, as you also know well, resources are limited, but it is taking those small steps that are making us see the light, that it is generating employment. Because a few months ago we were always talking about the fact that there was no job generation here and that unemployment continued to grow. Well, let us also recognize, even if they are small and although there are still a lot of people unemployed and there are also data on poverty, poverty in general (energy, youth, children, etc.), but they are taking steps and we are on the right track, and we urge the Government to continue along that path. And with regard to the People's Party, Mrs. Garrido, that aid comes to those who really need it... We have a law that is clear, that you changed in 2011 and that sets out requirements and times, and that meets those requirements... I don't think anyone comes to the services to apply for these benefits when they don't need them. That there are caradures in the systems, but in society, not in this social protection system in general? Well, maybe. And that's what you're working on, and that's why there are controls, and that's why Lanbide is improving its operation every day as well. But it seems to us that you are doing little favor by mixing once again fraud with social aid. The people, the people who have to come to be able to use, to have to eat, who have to go to social services, I don't think that with that stigmatization, because in the end what they are doing is stigmatizing and pretending to make a comparison and saying that everyone who comes to the protection system commits fraud... Yeah, in the end, that's what's left. That's what's left, Mrs. Garrido. And you insist, insist and insist, even though we have told you once and a thousand times that you must not do so. The system is improving, and it will continue to improve. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Maniro... ? No. It's over and we'll vote for Mrs. Blanco de Angulo's original text. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 71; in favour of 20; contrary to 50; white, 0; abscesssion, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u25	Original type text was not allowed. Next up, we'll vote for the full rights of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 16; rivals, 56; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u26	The Euscal Socialists are not accepted to the full correction of the group. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; 10; the opponents are 62; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u27	The correction to the population of the party has not been accepted. And next we vote for the full rights of the Eunerarian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; the opponents 26; the opponents are 46; white, 0; abstations are 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u28	The U.S. patriots aren't allowed to run the full correction of the group. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposition by which the Socialists have made the legislatures, is to accuse the Shenphobic Agressions, and to leave out of the political discussions which may be derived from the origin of these actions. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Unzal, the Socialist, representing the group, has the word to suggest and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. This parliament will today perform a new exercise of defence of tolerance, a profession of confession of those who are building together in Euskáda, that is to say, it is indifferent to the origin of each of them. This exercise must be attended with threats and attacks directed to any portion of the population. This, indeed, ought to be more severe, if these exercises are to be driven from the care of the institutions by the xenphobic attitudes. Specific measures have been discussed in the previous point. I would like, on this one, to go further into the matter. I'd like to talk about principles, ideology. Earlier this year an association that serves immigrants, the Association of African American Residents of Vitoria, which works in a way recognized for its integration into our society, received threats by post and also in the form of paintings accompanied by Nazi symbolism. These attacks occurred in a given context that we cannot ignore, and it was this context that related certain frauds not to specific persons, but to the origin of those persons. It was not the first time that in Euskadi and elsewhere in Spain a public representative related immigrants to fraud and crime. One of the greatest damage that can be done to coexistence in general, as well as to respect for any particular collective, is the dissemination of stereotypes and simplified images about them. And this is something that, unfortunately, happens very often. We've been warning you about how dangerous those kind of messages are. In fact, in this Parliament, and also in this context I would point out, the Socialists proposed a resolution in the November plenary on unemployment and poverty. That text, which was endorsed by the House, said: "Parliament rejects any attempt at party instrumentalization based on generalizations, stigmatizations of collectives or any other element that confronts citizens who pass needs, which only aims to weaken and cut the social protection system and break the balance of the tolerant and solidarity society built in the last three decades." Clearly, that institutional pronouncement was not enough. It is clear that identification of the crime with the immigrant has continued to grow. It is clear that the idea that the deceiver is different continues to be nourished. It is clear that the discourse that makes many people think that their needs are because others come to take what is one's, or that the outsiders are privileged in front of those here. And when that doesn't cut round, the door is left open for intimidatory actions. Institutional leaders, who hold any public office, must resolve any doubts. Even an error of expression, if that had been the case, must be corrected immediately; it cannot be claimed to be explained in a context. We know a lot about this in Euskadi, we know a lot about various truths and many lies, we know a lot about what it is to shut up when you try to exclude the ex-abrupt for ideological reason or to disguise them. When we have managed to stop that from happening, or at least to stop being a reason for the physical elimination of the politically despised, we cannot allow a new wave of hatred to open up. Let us make things clear; let us say that this country, Euskadi, has grown great thanks to the thousands and thousands of hands that have helped to lift it, from here and from outside our territories, from other places in Spain and from other places in the world. Let's just say everyone who came here wanted to make a life in a place where they saw opportunities to do so. That does not mean that those who wanted to take advantage of the common effort would not come too, but they did so not because of their origin, but because of their moral squandering, as there were also many indigenous people who have taken advantage of and continue to take advantage of the same effort. Let's say they came more when there were more opportunities, and they began to return to their places of origin when opportunities were scarce for all. Let us say that those who decided to stay in the place they chose to live, or in the place from which they cannot return, have equal rights, equal obligations as those who were born here, in Vitoria, in Amoroto, in Castrojeriz or in Cadiz. Equal rights and equal obligations, both. And that whoever fails to fulfil his obligations affecting the rights of another deserves equal reproach and punishment, is born where he was born. This is what makes men and women citizens of a country. Everything else is reckless excuses against coexistence. It is not a question of goodness, it is a question of justice. No one is protected by his origin, nor is anyone guilty according to the place of his birth. The offence has no nationality. Over the course of history, too many circumstances have occurred in which a race, nationality or people have been the scapegoats of the circumstances, almost always adverse, of indigenous people, and, without any exception, have always been scapegoats with the most vulnerable sectors of society. When xenophobia is exacerbated, it is used by those who are having a bad time against others who are having a bad time or worse. Only those who have your own cultural identity and who assume your sociocultural assimilation are admitted as beneficiaries of the system. This kind of populism has the ability to exculpate the powerful for the hardships they endure, and to condemn for them the weakest. We know well those who have come to improve Euskadi, have worked with us by raising houses that have enriched some, covered the unwanted jobs by those who aspired to live in the permanent bubble, and when the bubble punctured we all punctured. Everyone, the ones born here and the ones born out of here. He pinched everyone who had a job and stopped having it; he pinched the one who earned a decent wage and stopped having it; he pinched the one who covered his basic needs and stopped doing it. And in Euskadi we resist better because we have the mattress where anyone who sticks in life falls. And we saw that the exclusion on grounds of origin was going to be one of the first pagans of this explosion. We saw it when immigrants in an irregular situation were excluded from primary health care. The previous government of Euskadi, Patxi López, stood on the wall, raised the defense of this health care to the Constitutional, we were right, and whoever promoted this exclusion three years later has had to rectify. But that was nothing more than an advance than what was to come: every cut in the protection system to the entire population that affected the weakest was accompanied by a specific look at immigrants. It was the best way to distract the hardships of so many families, to blame the outside instead of blaming the government. It has been a strategy that has had revenues elsewhere in Europe, where, without having to get far away from us, the xenophobic parties have become a dangerous political gap. To be able to manipulate collective emotions, it is only necessary to have certain circumstances such as the one we are currently experiencing, and people who are willing to do so. It is easy, in the current situation of widespread economic crisis, to doubt the capacity of institutions and parties to solve social problems, to seek the culprit of the situation in the other. In Euskadi and Spain, fortunately, there have been no general and electorally successful parties that make political strategy with these members, but these intolerant and discriminatory speeches have been installed. The only way to deal with them is with robust institutional responses. However, although, as I say, this rejection is not widespread, it is necessary to give some notes on the reports of observatories analysing racism and xenophobia, and they point out that in Spain with the crisis people who are reluctant to immigration have increased up to 37%, and there are 42% who think that immigration laws are too tolerant. It also stands out for certain groups, such as Magrebians or Romanians, as the least accepted. This same year's report by the Ministry of the Interior on hate crimes highlights that hate crimes have grown by 10% between 2013 and 2014, of which 425 are related to racism. In 2014 there were 141 complaints of hate crimes in Euskadi, 11 per cent of the total in Spain, and 102 of these complaints were of a racist nature. Given that this type of crime, for obvious reasons, is not usually reported, we should take this data seriously. Because the defendants are us. Those who are attacked or threatened feel their fear; those who have a public responsibility must let them know that we are not going to accept that aggression and that threat, because they are aggressions and threats to all, to this society and to the values on which it is based. That is why the broad agreement that we, the proposing group, have reached with the various groups that have made amendments is important to us, because it seems essential to us that, as I said earlier, the institutional response should be robust and should be a majority. That is why I think we have to say loud and clear that this Parliament rebuts all expressions, intimidations and attacks of a xenophobic and racist nature. That this Parliament sympathizes with the immigrant population that has been the object of such attacks. That this Parliament, who we are sitting here in particular and who are going to vote in favour of this resolution, is committed to defending and respecting human rights; that we are committed to a society based on diversity, solidarity and social cohesion. And that this Parliament once again calls on all political representatives to banish from the debate xenophobic and racist speeches and affirmations that attack coexistence and interculturality of show society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u30	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u31	Thank you, President. We have been denouncing certain absolutely unacceptable statements and attitudes that have taken place in Euskadi for years. We registered an initiative almost a year ago that has a lot to do with what is being debated today. We in that initiative drew attention to certain statements made by the Mayor of Sestao, Mr. Josu Bergara. In addition to ensuring in those statements that it violates the law every day, the municipal governor added that "The shit no longer comes here; but, I cast it out. I already take care of them to leave; on the basis of holies, of course, between one and the other." The mayor became the spokesman for all the neighbors of Sestao: "They are up to the balls" – he said – of the "rumans" and the "moros". In addition, he threatened that "from the city hall much harm can be done," and said that "I will not forbid foreign people from coming because it is impossible, but people who do not want anyone who does not come to Sestao. There are very few good Gypsies." These barbarities were said in Euskadi in June last year, and this Parliament did not say anything about the issue. Absolutely unacceptable statements, which cannot be consented to in a democratic society. These statements were severely disqualified by virtually all the Basque political parties, and, despite the mayor's apology and the Basque Nationalist Party's rejection of such statements, the party to which he is a member did not expel him from his organization, which in our view is what he should have done. In that initiative that we recorded in July last year we also drew attention to the statements made by Mr. Maroto, Mayor of Vitoria, and we said that last week (then) Mr. Maroto stated in a radio interview that "Argelinos and Moroccans come to the city to live with the aid", and that "the fraud in social aid for some specific nationalities is scandalous". The Basque mayor and parliamentarian pointed out that "two collectives, such as Moroccans and Algerians, use social assistance to live without having to work". Statements all of them that received the rejection of all the Basque political parties, except their own, that these political parties considered the words of the municipal governor to be absolutely unacceptable. His political formation, the People's Party, however, supported his mayor and prevented him from demanding any correction, let alone censoring his statements. Moreover, since then he has maintained his campaign for months. The People's Party endorsed its speech, and today the People's Party sets it as an example of good political work. These statements, we said in that justification, are extraordinarily serious, all these statements are absolutely serious. We cannot allow political representatives to try to sell us the idea that immigration is the cause of the economic crisis or unemployment we suffer. We cannot allow anyone who purports, supposedly, to obtain electoral results through racist and xenophobic discourses. These speeches, therefore, are unacceptable, and must be censored. By the way, no matter what votes they drag. They are unacceptable in any case, in Euskadi, in the rest of Spain and in any European country. Regardless of the votes they cast, these speeches, these statements, these phrases are absolutely unacceptable. And from there we were presenting a non-legislative proposal which has finally not been discussed, but which comes to the case, and also some of its points have been included in that compromise amendment which you have signed and which we are obviously going to support. Today the Socialist Group brings back to us the debate resulting from the attack on the headquarters of an immigrant support association and from the threatening and humiliating writings received at that headquarters. We share the speech made by the Socialist representative, we share what is said in the justification, and we also share what was proposed in that initiative, beyond the fact that we have tabled a total amendment to try to improve the original text. In any case, I say that we are going to vote in favour of the compromise. By the way, I hope that all groups, without exception, will support that compromise text. I think it has to be, and there has to be no doubt about it. However, Mr Bergara's or Mr Maroto's statements have not been the only ones that have outraged us in recent times. Nationalism has also historically embraced a discourse that sought to divide society into two: the nationalists and the non-nationalists; the truth Basques and the less Basques, when not the non-Vascos or the anti-Vascos; those here and there, or those outside; the representatives of the Basques, the authentic representatives of the Basques, and those sent from Spain, to defend the Spanish ideas. These things have also been said in this Parliament and outside this Parliament, and in recent times, by certain sectors of Basque nationalism. Certain sectors have spoken in this way or in the same way. All this talk, which is present in other European countries, must be banished. Let us not say, at last, the physical attacks on non-nationalist politicians, the persecution of those who are not nationalists, the discourse of intolerance, division or hatred, even reaching the murder of innocent people by the terrorist band ETA. Faced with all this, clearly distinguishing degrees and responsibilities, we demand what we are all going to demand, I hope: respect, tolerance, equality, citizenship rights, respect for diversity, diversity, integration or social cohesion. If we finally approve a compromise that is already signed, I hope that all of us will live up to the circumstances so that we will never engulf such utterly rancid and unacceptable speeches in a democratic society. I insist, regardless of the votes they cast in other European countries as well, certain speeches, similar speeches, in some case worse speeches, are achieving great successes, great electoral victories. It will never be worth a vote if it is preceded by such a speech. We will vote in favour of the compromise because, as I say, we are all human beings, we are all basically equal, we are all equal in dignity, we are all from here, regardless of where we are, we are all from here, and we are all immigrants. We shall therefore vote, as I say, on that compromise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u32	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u33	Good morning, everyone. We're talking about a few heavy attacks in the February and a few Xenophobic messages. We all know what happened. It's been mentioned before. Eraso eta mezu hauek Gasteizko Afroamerikanoen Elkartean jaso ziren: "No lack of work, no immigrants left"; "Español parado, immigrant expelled"; "Social aid for nationals", svastikarekin beats. As we see, with employment, unemployment, with society, with protection, and, after all, messages relating to immigrants. Undoubtedly grave and disquieting are these messages, and in their presence there have been many persons and persons who have been opposed to xnophobic and racialism. It is, luckily, a very numerous city. We've built Gasteiz people from many different sites, and now there's never been any problems and attacks in this grade. Why now? Now, in our opinion, it has been mentioned before, clearly enough, that the Mayor Javier Marotos, who is the mayor of the Omnipotent Regiment, is at the present time the origin of these phenophobs in the July of August 2014. Mr Marotus being the mayor, being an officer and a political representative, has already placed the Magrebs' collective at the moment. He has thrown these collective immigrants into the backs of their income, and has, by the way, started the campaign against the policy of social co-operation. It's not enough to do anything about it, and it's a new assault. I would like to remember that with the reduction of changes introduced in the regulations in 2011 even at the front point of the month, thousands of people were left without rights. A fraud and a stranger are mixed with it, And a hire for fraud and revenue. This also has been discussed several times, and will be talked of in this legislature. We have to work against fraud, not against all fraud, but what is unacceptable, is to spend what is forbidden to a specific collective, and, of course, when there is no data for it, we have often mentioned the genuine swindle once in a place where they spend and spend millions of millions and millions, and which Mr Marto and Popts are well acquainted with, because they are very near. Therefore it seems to us that we live in a hypocrisy, and that we have various things to say that it is hypocritical. Don't these people have the right to live to be worthy of life? After all, they seek elsewhere what they have not in their own countries. They seek a chance to be worthy of life. It's all right. Does anyone think it should be easy to leave the family and leave the village and go somewhere else? As a political campaign, for thousands of votes, he underestimated the rights and the dignity of the people, and opposed the Gastheizians to each other. And this is unacceptable, and it is troubling, too. And it is in the midst of this campaign concerned about the granting of social assistance to immigrants where stickers with the Nazi swastika cross appear in the aforementioned Association of African American Residents, which is dedicated to defending the rights of these immigrants and promoting their integration, an association that has been working in Gasteiz for no less than twenty-one years. But, in addition, during these months some people have been turned against others because of their origin. Some immigrants point out that they notice the suspicious looks of some people. It has even turned some immigrants against others: Latin Americans think that the bad ones are the Magrebians, and these are others anyone, no matter, but always against each other. In these times when many people and families are suffering the consequences of the crisis, when many people are unemployed and when poverty levels have risen considerably, it is easy to put one against another, especially against immigrants, promoting racism and xenophobia. But it is a great irresponsibility, unforgivable, that political leaders encourage it for its manifestations and acts. It's not new, it's also mentioned before. We are seeing what is happening in some parts of Europe, the rise of racism and Nazi ideology groups. It has also been said before that this country, our country, we have done it, we are doing it among all, and that is why it is necessary that from the institutions, from this Parliament, from the political sphere, we denounce these attitudes that encourage confrontation and xenophobia, and work for a society where plurality and diversity are valued positively. We bear witness to what has been said, that those who proclaim the social rights of the people, and proclaim the just and solidate city, in these months, in defending the rights of all the Gastesians, come from where they come from. And for the sake of the social rights of all people, society needs to be strengthened. We must defend the system of all the people who have to end up with the restrictions. It's right, and the receivers can't be stigmatized. And, of course, I've said before, we're worried, we're not the best times to claim social rights for everyone, even in Europe. We've known him these days, for instance, what Cameron and Merker said. From our point of view, we have to face the neoligary politics and speech, and we have to place the rights of people in the first row, the rights of all people, to ensure a strong protection system. What has been discussed here on the preceding point, as we have said, will remain with all force defending this idea: We need a powerful and supportive social system. We have agreed on the medium, which comprehends four principal ideas: he disapproves of expressions of xnophobic and racial character; he shows solidarity to the immigrants and to those who received these attacks; in diversity, the pattern of society founded on solidarity and cohesion of society, is maintained and demanded, and demands that these political representatives should be banished from their discourses by rational discourses and by the xenphobic. I have at first mentioned the threats received by the Aphromomeician Society, and the origin of the xenfobo message that M. And therefore in these days, as we all know, there is a living dispute whether the next Mayor of Gaste may be a person who has had such an attitude. We have explained it clearly, and many of the gasteciers, many agents, and many of them, as are said in the course of the week, not to have the mayor Maroto in public, and of different ideologys: It is not possible to be a Gastine mayor, who encourages the quarrels of his fellow-citizens and employs the message of hatred. We want a stephobless Gastian attack based on mutual life and solidarity between the several. And therefore we think that this medium must help us to do this way, and from now on the racialism and the xenophobia disappear from our lives.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mrs. Arreg, Eubertarians represent the team. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, we'll try to reach the subject today, and we won't take any part in Marotor, or talk about Josu Bergar, mayor of Sestao. We may safely say that most groups agree with the fundamental initiative introduced by the Socialist Party, since all the corrections which have been introduced have been derived from the same line and afterwards from a middle course, it is plain. In the middle of February, when the co-ordinations appeared at the American Association's office, we accepted the following text from the Human Rights Committee: "The Commission of the Equality of Human Rights, and the Particulation of the People, is charged with the appearance of the 17th of February, and of some addons in 18, which attack the dignity of the people who stand for them, and are a proof of xenophobia to be excluded from our society." The appearance of stickers and the sending of threatening writings in any case seem to us to reflect denouncing behavior, which in no way helps the coexistence and interculturality of our society, and which should disappear forever. In addition, in the specific case before us today, attacks on the African-American Association attack the immigrant group, one of the weakest links in society. We do not share the stereotypes that have been used to marginalize the immigrant community in general, and some of them because of their particular origin. They are people who, having decided to leave their countries of origin, surely because the situation was unsustainable in them, chose to come and live in Euskadi to develop their life project here. We believe that as public representatives we must banish from the political debate xenophobic and racist speeches and affirmations that, we insist, do not benefit the coexistence of our society, especially when Basque society has always been characterized by solidarity, by helping those who are going through the worst, by being hospitable with all the people who, having decided to leave their countries of origin, have come to live in Basque. We believe that these signs of identity of our society must be maintained, and it seems to us that it is essential that politicians and policies be exquisite in language, that we do not leave any room for doubt about our position which is totally contrary to racism and xenophobia. It has been easy to reach a middle course, for most groups share the same attitude towards the same subject; On the one hand, we proclaim a clear attitude against the racialists and the xenphobic attacks; on the other, we wish to express the solidarity of the legislature by the attacks of the immigrants; thirdly, the engagement of the legislature in respect of human rights, and a multitude of societies, consolidators, and the defence of the cohesion; and, to conclude, we require all political representatives to be excluded from the dispute, and that they do no service to our social life and culture. And I just wanted to make a reference to Mr Maneiro, after listening to his first speech, because I don't think speeches like yours help much in living together either. He just left, but I'm going to tell him anyway so he can read it in the record. I think that, rather than worrying about the mayor of Sestao, what he should do is worry about solving the problems he has in his own party, which are also many. And finally, he talked about respect for equality, respect for dignity, that all people are equal in dignity... Therefore, what I do not understand is why you have not signed the compromise amendment, with which you say that you agree and that you are going to vote in favour. If we're all the same, I should have signed it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing over the uncorrected teams, Mrs Garrido, representing the Basque Potion Group. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans. This sense is a matter of examining the discourses and attitudes which promote the accusation of xenphobic Agresius, and such actions. And we must say that a fundamental principle of the European Union is the support of human rights. As I said, safeguarding fundamental rights is one of the inherent and basic principles of the European Union. The basis is the provisions of the treaties, including the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, international conventions, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union establishes in a single document the fundamental rights recognized by the Community Treaties, the common constitutional principles of the Member States, the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, and the Social Charters of the European Union and of the Council of Europe. We can therefore say that the Charter of Fundamental Rights brings together in one text all the rights of individuals. Rights are recognized around a number of basic principles that permeate the entire functioning of the European Union and the different democratic institutions: human dignity, fundamental freedoms, equality, solidarity, citizenship and justice. With the adoption of the Treaty of Lisbon, the Union has a Charter of Fundamental Rights which is legally binding and provides that the Union shall be based on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for minority rights. These are, ladies and gentlemen, values common to the Member States, in a society characterized by pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and equality of men and women. The Union therefore recognises the rights, freedoms and principles set out in the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. This Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union affirms that it places the person and human dignity at the centre of its action. Europar Batasunaren Oinarrizko Eskubideen Eskutitzak azierazten of the age drinking dignity to say drinking ekintzaren oinarria. Article 10 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union refers to the fight against discrimination. Article 2 of the Declaration of Human Rights states that everyone has all the rights and freedoms proclaimed in this Declaration, without distinction as to race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or any opinion, national or social origin or economic position. Article 1 of our Constitution, in the preliminary title, speaks of Spain as a social and democratic State governed by law, which promotes freedom, justice, equality and political pluralism as the highest values of its legal system. In the articles referring to the section on fundamental rights and duties, article 10 states that the dignity of the person, the inherent inviolable rights, the free development of personality, respect for the law and the rights of others are the foundation of political order and social peace. Article 14 states that the Spaniards are equal before the law, without any discrimination on the grounds of birth, sex, race, religion or opinion, or any other personal and social circumstance or condition. We can therefore conclude, after reading all these articles and the legal references existing in the European Union's own treaties, in the principles that permeate the whole functioning of the European Union and democratic institutions, that acts of racism and xenophobia or religious hatred are, of course, a clear violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. Arrazakeria, xenophobia eta caproto erlijiosoarekin lotutako ekintzek giza eskubideak eta oinarrizko askatasuna urratzen dituzte. Therefore, as I said, one of the principles guiding the action of our democratic institutions is to ensure respect for human dignity and, consequently, the fight against discrimination. Ildo horretatik, gure instituzio demokratikoen ekintzek duten prinzipio nagusia giza dignitàrekiko misses Bermatzea da agea, ondoroz, discriminazio jasotzen duten ekintzak gaitzestaa. In the People's Party we firmly believe in all these values, and of course it is those who guide our political action, the action of all the institutional representatives of the People's Party: scrupulous respect for human rights, fundamental rights of the person, human dignity; the firmer condemnation of any action that undermines or attacks them; the fight against discrimination is a commitment of all, as well as the prevention of stigmatization of any collective; the construction of a society based on equal opportunities and solidarity; ensuring the freedom of all (of which there should be much talk on this earth) in the choice of their life choices and in their full personal realization with full equality of rights. We therefore advocate in the People's Party a peaceful coexistence that respects plurality, diversity and social cohesion. We know a lot in Euskadi about the attacks on the most elementary rights to freedom, to life. We know what the threat of totalitarianism represents, which has taken lives ahead. I therefore believe that today is an opportunity to renew our commitment to human rights in capital letters, but to all human rights. We, as it could not be otherwise, are going to support the compromise amendment signed by all the groups represented in this House. I have to say that we do not initially present an amendment to the original initiative because we agree with it, because we believe that it is precisely these principles that should guide political action and it is those that should preside over the functioning of our institutions. But we would also have liked to go further, and we would have liked other groups represented in this House to have demanded from that group that today it has not yet had the gallarity, the courage to condemn totalitarianism, the terrorist threat..., that we have made a condemnation and a defense of human rights in capital letters. Because, indeed, many speeches have been made here that have tried to divide society, and many actions have been taken that, of course, have tried to eliminate part of it. And that is why we believe it was an opportunity to have a full debate and to have spoken about human rights in capital letters. Yes, Mr Unzalu, we are talking about principles, principles that must guide all institutional political action and institutional representatives. That is why we could not be against the ruling today in this House, and that is why, as I say to you, we are not submitting an amendment to your original initiative. I would also like to make a reference to those groups that have tried to mix discussions, bring here statements that do not come to light, on which the courts have already ruled, and, of course, there is no open case against Mr Maroto, and, in any case, the complaints raised have been closed. I therefore believe that the issue is very clear. Y, Lude Luego, we would like to see the EH Collectate planing these debates against all attacks against human rights. I think that with your speech at this moment you've lost a remarkable opportunity to make a general defence of human rights, and, unfortunately, what's happened here is unfortunately totalitarianism and terrorism. You've still got that chance, and I'll see if you can take that chance forward. That's what this society expects, as it has asked for several times.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u38	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing the answer shift, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u39	Thank you. I am sincerely glad that the compromise amendment that we have reached will be voted on unanimously by this House. I don't think it should be any other way. But I would like to focus on some of the things that I said in my first speech, because when we talk about all of us fighting discrimination, or that we are in favour of political coexistence, as Mrs Garrido said in the last speech, I think we must remember, and we must remember every day all of us and all of our leaders, that one of the greatest damage that can be done to coexistence and one of the greatest contributions that can be made to the discrimination of certain groups is the simplification, the stigmatisation of certain groups. And in the first intervention, what I said was that we should be very careful about this issue, all public officials. Neither the Magrebians want to live with help, nor the Romanians are criminals, nor the Gypsies are garbage. When we say that we're doing that simplification, we're putting a collective, and we're impacting that on society. You can't say they're criminals, or there's a gang fraud. Fraud has no nationality. Fraud is committed by people. And that can't be done either, and it's done too often. Too often, a certain group is encouraged to commit social aid fraud. No one has thought of saying that tax fraud is committed by residents in certain neighbourhoods. That hypocrisy is the one we are often transferring to society, identifying with certain issues, stigmatizing certain collectives, and making that simplification he said. When we accuse a group of delinquent we are making a very serious mistake and we are going against that coexistence. When we accuse that a collective has certain behaviors we are doing a weak favor to the fight against discrimination. And this is what I think we should all keep in mind, we would have to demand, demand ourselves, all the public representatives, and we would have to control within the parties and in society itself. I would like to stress that I am glad that the agreement that we have reached between the groups that signed the compromise amendment will be voted unanimously in this House, but I think this should not be forgotten, and we should not forget that this is a work that is not finished today, that it is not a work that is done with a parliamentary resolution, but it is a day-to-day work, that it is an attitude that we must maintain throughout our political activity, the 365 days of each year that passes. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u40	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro mustn't speak a word. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u41	First, to see the messages and pictures I've mentioned in the previous intervention, these are... [[Shows a photo]] I think we all know each other, every one of us, and at least I think it's hard, and it makes them feel afraid. To be an immigrant today is not easy to be a magrebarian, more difficult than a year ago. The climate, as has been said, has been confounded, and is stigmatized, seems to be deceiving, to have taken away all that is "ours," because it has been made a shameful discourse of the people out here and abroad. We should ask who's here, who's outside. It's easy to get a few sectors and these conclusions. To these associations, besides expressing solidarity, it is necessary to enlarge and strengthen messages which are to promote life from institutions and political representatives. We're different and the difference makes us rich. Mrs Garrido, you've tried to divert the subject, but it stays there. We didn't mix things up. When it happened around this, what was said of the media, because this isn't a single matter that suddenly comes out of the way, and suddenly some people decided to do it, don't they? Momentu haietan esan zen: "The mayor who took the wick of racism". Ez, Ez, Irakurtzen ari naiz. Ez dut nik esan, komunikabideetan agertu zena irakurtzen ari naz. "This rarified climate of xenophobia has its origin date, according to the immigrant associations consulted." Gorka Moreno, director of the Basque Immigration Observatory Ikuspegi: "I hope that the tension with immigrants will not increase as the election date approaches. However, it is the politicians who open the espita so that certain people go from thinking something to realizing it, those who give them wings. We must be very careful about these spaces of impunity, because they crack down on coexistence, and politicians are the only ones who can close those spaces." Baina irakuri dezaket egun haietan was beasts alderdi politicako batzuek esandakoa. Adibidez, gaur hemen PNVtik ez da ezer azieri horren inguruan, bathe egun horietan eta afroamerikarren egotzan egondako erasoen aurrean, bada, bai, esan zen. Esan zen that "since the formation they demand a change of attitude to those who, like Maroto, are contributing with their discourse to generate social conflict, facilitating facts like this". Edo Alderdi Sozialistak esan zuen that "it is clear that irresponsible statements and actions like those of Maroto pay the ground to the commission of such acts that are aimed at the immigrant population". That's what this society has said and examined at the moment of the Gaste. And we share all that, and that's what we've tried to say in the first intervention. It seems to us that from now on we must deal with these things as we have done before. And human rights, yes, Mrs Garrido, must be proclaimed for everyone and for all of us, and so I do. I'm glad that PP is going to vote for it, too, but I must say that with it Mr Maroto would at least have to withdraw a number of expressions which he has made, because it's not credible what he's saying here today. It is not credible, for, after all, there is a foundation which rests upon what it is saying so many attacks are received. And lastly, and another society, as we defend another society, I will put two great ideas before this dispute, which I have mentioned before. one, where all men have a right to live with dignity in any place, here and anywhere, and amongst them that we must face all the unjust states; and the second would be, that we must face the throphobic and racialism with all force, and that we ought to force other values, and that in the name Gaste we shall continue to work on a multitude of different cities, coloured, living, and being governed by one another.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. The eubertarians must not be allowed to speak. Representative of the population. Does Mrs Garrido have anything to say?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u43	Look, all the leaders of the People's Party, all of us, we are very clear about the principles that I have set out, that they permeate, that guide the actions of our institutions, those principles that are the basis of the European Union, of the functioning of our democracy, such as respect for human rights, respect for human dignity, pluralism, non-discrimination, social cohesion and solidarity. Therefore, as that is so, and we have the firm conviction of that, none of us can promote discrimination and stigmatization of any collective. And look, gentlemen of EH Bildu, of course, of stigmatization can speak many collectives, unfortunately, in Basque society. We could talk to you many collectives about what are stigmatizations for a long time in this society, those stigmatizations with which you, this entire bench, have looked and continue to look elsewhere. And I repeat to you again, you are losing an opportunity today, a new opportunity to talk about respect for human rights in capital letters, that request that is always being made to you by Basque society and to which you continue to listen deafly. Therefore, legitimacy to speak of some few issues, when they cannot speak of human rights, of the defence of human rights in its entirety, because they still do not condemn what has been the violation in this land of the fundamental right of many people, such as the right to life and physical integrity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u44	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. End of discussion, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists, the EH Collectors, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eubertarians. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; the opponents are 72; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u45	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. Third point in theme list: "To discuss these other proposals as follows, and to take up the resolution once and for all: Another proposal by the law of Euskal parliamentary populars, the state of Venezuela, the pursuit of democratic opposition, the savage repression, and the rapine of expressions and demonstrations. Eubertarians propose as much as the law-suits as the political state of Venezuela." The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Barrio, representing the Potion of Basque Groups. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u46	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, councillors, ladies and gentlemen. Well, it's a timely, appropriate initiative, an initiative on Venezuela, and the situation. Venezuela is plunged into political, institutional, economic, social and, further away, chaos in relation to respect for human rights and respect for democratic principles. We have reached a majority agreement on a series of very strong statements in relation to Venezuela. In this regard, we have reached an agreement between the four groups that signed the compromise amendment in relation to the resolution of 18 December 2014 on the persecution of the democratic opposition in Venezuela, of the European Parliament, and the resolution, also of the same Parliament, of 12 March 2015 (i.e. very recent), on the situation in Venezuela. These are in addition to previous ones, such as the one of 27 February 2014, also on the situation in Venezuela. That is, the European democratic institutions are very concerned about this democratic and institutional chaos and human rights in Venezuela. The truth is also that the best and clearest pronouncements that have been made are, in that sense, those of the European Parliament, but to them too must be added the recent pronouncements of the Secretary-General of the United Nations of 26 February on the concern about violent incidents and the loss of human lives in Venezuela, and of yesterday's Office of OHCHR, of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, about the conditions of detention and deterioration of the health of Daniel Ceballos, former mayor in the State of Táchira in Venezuela. And, in addition to all that, the most diverse human rights organizations have published demolishing reports on violence, impunity, torture in Venezuela. My group had tabled a non-legislative proposal, which was joined by a non-legislative proposal which was then presented by the Basque Nationalist group on the same issues, and we have deepened and made those pronouncements of the European Parliament. In particular, on my initiative on 27 February, the following pronouncement was not yet in progress, although it did appear, but the European Parliament's resolution of 18 December 2014 on the persecution of the democratic opposition in Venezuela said many things, many things that were devastating. Among other things, he said that "considering that freedom of expression and the right to participate in peaceful demonstrations are fundamental elements of democracy and are recognized in the Venezuelan Constitution; that equality and justice for all are impossible if the fundamental rights and freedoms of all citizens are not respected; that there are numerous reports confirming that the media are increasingly subjected to intimidation and censorship; that during the general assembly of the Inter-American Press Society in Santiago de Chile this organization declared that Venezuela is under great pressure from independent media, it urges to respect freedom of expression"... And the progressive deterioration, in geometrical progression, of democratic freedoms was warned in that same assembly. He also considered that resolution that the opposition leader, Leopoldo López at the time, was arbitrarily arrested on 18 February 2014, with false accusations of incitement to violence, conspiracy, arson, property damage..., an endless number of falsehoods, and since his arrest he has found that he has suffered physical and psychological torture and has been subjected to an isolation regime. Also how opposition mayors Daniel Ceballos and Enzo Scarano, as well as police inspector Lucchese, have been arrested for failing to put an end to protests and civil rebellion in their cities, sentenced to several years in prison. That also the congressmen, such as Caldera, García, Mardo, face investigations and judicial proceedings aimed at obtaining their suspension and their disqualification as congressmen... That is, pure and harsh political persecution. In addition, it was considered that student leaders (such as the president of the Student Centre of the School of Social Work of the Central University of Venezuela, and others) have been unjustly detained for more than 120 days in units of the Bolivarian intelligence services and have been subjected to torture and degrading treatment in connection with protests in February and May 2014, being charged with crimes of instigation and use of minors for the commission of crimes. Let's go further. The mayor of Caracas, Antonio Ledezma, has been brutally arrested, imprisoned... And violence in the repression of peaceful demonstrations has had many deadly victims. Among them is that of the 14-year-old Kluiverth Roa, who was shot in the head by the Bolivarian police during a protest in San Cristobal in which the child did not participate. That is, there is an endless number of testimonies, of dramatic realities, of brutal realities in relation to where the regime of Venezuela, of President Maduro, is moving. The European Parliament's own statements said: "President Maduro," he says, considering the last statement of 12 March, "has also made stumbling blocks of allegations of alleged foreign conspiracies"; "The leaders of the democratic opposition have repeatedly been the subject of unfounded accusations, of involvement in alleged plans to provoke instability"... It is considered by the European Parliament that a democratic state should not, cannot criminalise the leaders of the political opposition, and must guarantee precisely the opposite, political participation, something that shines out of its absence at this time and for a long time in Venezuela. In addition, there are other issues associated with all this, and in these recitals there is the fact that Venezuela is the country with the most important energy reserves in Latin America, and that, paradoxically, the Venezuelan people suffer from a very serious shortage of basic necessities, that food prices have doubled, that food rationing has increased, in the richest country perhaps in Latin America. That is, it is a failure of the State in that sense too: institutional failure, political failure, failure to defend human rights, social failure, and economic failure, isn't it? Well, in that regard, the pronouncements are there, in reiterating the deep concern, as we will certainly do, by subscribing to those questions for the worsening situation in Venezuela, the condemnation of the use of violence against demonstrators, asking the Venezuelan authorities to immediately release Antonio Ledezma, Leopoldo Torres, Daniel Ceballos and so many peaceful demonstrators and political leaders, students, opponents, arbitrarily detained for exercising their right to freedom of expression and their fundamental rights. We must ask the authorities of Venezuela to ensure that, in addition to releasing them, they ensure that all these people receive any kind of medical care, that they do not, do not. We saw the United Nations High Commissioner yesterday expressing concern about the state of health of one of the arbitrarily detained. Of course, these pronouncements condemn the death by bullet impact of the Roa child and six more students, certainly conveying condolences to families. And what else can you ask for? For much more needs to be asked in relation to the provisions of the Venezuelan Constitution itself and its international obligations, and especially with regard to judicial independence and the rights of freedom of expression, association and peaceful assembly, as well as political pluralism, which are fundamental elements of democracy and which are permanently violated, perfectly massacred in Venezuela. And in that sense, I believe that the statement we make in Parliament is clear. Moreover, to all these pronouncements of the European Parliament, of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, the Panama Declaration, recently signed by thirty-one former Heads of State and Government, must be added a clear statement, which seeks to establish this deteriorating situation and this severe democratic, institutional, economic and social crisis in Venezuela, and to think about the future of that nation. That Panama Declaration was also signed on 9 April 2015, so all the statements we are referring to from these organizations, from the European Parliament to human rights organizations, through the United Nations and coming to these forums of political relevance, are recent, in the same way as the organizations that group the American states. Well, this Parliament, moreover, we have to remember, has always been in solidarity with the people of Venezuela, and I believe that, by transferring these kinds of approaches in relation to the denunciation of the lack of democracy and respect for human rights, what we do is to be in solidarity with the State of Venezuela, as do the statements of the European Parliament that we subscribe to, right? This Parliament has always been in solidarity with the people of Venezuela, and I have to remember that this House adopted an institutional declaration in 1999 on the occasion of the floods and those torrential rains in the disaster that occurred, and it was in solidarity. Now we continue to sympathize with the oppressed people, with a devastated, disenfranchised people, a people that has no future at this time. The Maduro Government has not transmitted a message condemning violence, and those same international observers who speak on this issue say that torture is not investigated, victims are not compensated, there is no independence from the judicial system. These are issues that, ladies and gentlemen, we do not invent; all kinds of human rights organisations say this, as the European Parliament says, as the international observers say, and in this sense we also say this from the Basque Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u47	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The eubertarian is the representative of the group. Mr. Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. Today we came to talk about Venezuela, why, at least, we think Venezuela is wrong. Venezuela has been living during a difficult period, and I should say that Venezuela is ill, his democracy is ill, his economy and his social context is ill. Even the state is sick, and I should say, even more, it is almost entirely gone. The Venezuelan Bolívar Republic is experiencing difficult times, and because of critical economic circumstances, the public services are getting worse and worse, poverty has climbed into a level, and wants are lacking in health products and provisions for citizens who are in a state of emergency. This situation adds a great political crisis. This crisis is remarkable in the waters of human rights, in the diminution of civil liberty, in the persecution of opposition forces, and in the political confusion. Venezuela, therefore, and in short, has a thoroughly corrupted political, economic, and social condition. The Venezuelan citizens, their political forces, and the social agencies, must face this social breach with the protection and solidarity of the international community. All the political forces of Venezuela must open a stage for the interaction of commitments agreed on, and resist this sistemic crisis. The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela is experiencing very complicated times, a critical economic situation, which also leads to a growing deterioration of public services, an increase in poverty and a lack of basic health or food supplies for its citizens. And let me comment on some data on Venezuela. The International Monetary Fund advances that Venezuela will suffer the greatest economic contraction in Latin America, and that in 2015 its GDP will record a potential drop of 7%, and that in addition inflation will fire up to 96.8% at the end of this year. There are no personal hygiene products, there is no oil, there is no milk, there are no eggs, there is no sugar, there is no butter, and in Venezuela there is a lack of everything, but there is violence on all sides. If we look at the December 2014 report of the Venezuelan Observatory of Violence, Venezuela ends the year 2014 being the second country in the world with more homicides. And until Hugo Chávez came to power in 1999 it is true that Venezuela had a situation of common crime and quite high violence, much higher in the parameters or criteria we use here in Europe, but at least it had a stable situation and below the violence of Colombia, Brazil, El Salvador or Mexico itself. And yet, in Caracas in 2010, and according to the government's own victimization survey, there was a homicide rate of 232 people killed, killed, per 100,000 inhabitants. I think I remember that in Euskadi we are at 0.45 per 100,000 inhabitants. No further data were published after 2010. Venezuela has obtained 19 points in the rate of perception of corruption, being the country number 161 of the 174 that have been analyzed, and with this score Venezuela is among the countries that have the highest public corruption. And it is true that not all of Venezuela's data are negative. For example, in 2005 Venezuela declared itself free from illiteracy, which, according to UNESCO, means that less than 4% of the population is illiterate, and I think this is a significant process for a society. It is also true that during the first years of the government of President Hugo Chávez, social housing, education and food programmes allowed, among other things, the reduction of poverty from 30.5 per cent of the population in 2003 to 23.4 per cent in 2006. And when we talk about poverty in Venezuela, we're talking about people who live on less than a dollar a day. But, of course, the latest report "Social Panorama of Latin America 2014", which has just been published by Cepal, the Economic Commission for Latin America and the Caribbean, states that between 2012 and 2013, the poverty rate in Venezuela rose from 25.4 per cent to 32.1 per cent, and this is a setback and is to be again in 2001 and 2002 figures. It is true that the price of oil has varied enormously over the past fifteen years, but I remember perfectly, when President Hugo Chávez came to power in 1999, that the oil barrel was at $10, and I remember it because we were there. The average of these last fifteen years has been from a barrel of oil to $64.27 in the reference used by Venezuelans, which is the Texan barrel, with tips of $146.9. Venezuela is an oil producer and exporter, and 90% of the currencies come from its oil. I therefore believe that both the regime of Hugo Chávez, the government of President Hugo Chávez, and that of Nicolás Maduro have had more than enough money to undertake all the social reforms that the country needed, because it did need them for a long time, and yet it has not managed to have profound structural reforms and to undertake the changes that it needed. And in addition to this situation there is a huge political crisis, manifesting itself in the violation of human rights, restrictions on civil liberties, persecution and political harassment of the opposition. And Venezuela lives, in short, a critical situation in terms of economy, security, and socially, deeply deteriorated. The international community in general, but especially the Commission on Human Rights and the UN Committee against Torture, as well as the OAS (the Organization of American States), but also the European Parliament, as Mr Carmelo Barrio has pointed out, have made numerous calls for dialogue, respect for democratic principles and Venezuela's international commitments in the field of human rights. They have denounced – as has been said – the government's dependence on the judiciary, as well as the arbitrary arrests of Leopoldo López, Antonio Ledezma and many other opponents, as well as attacks on freedom of expression and freedom of the press, and disproportionate repression of peaceful demonstrations. It should be recalled that the dissolution of demonstrations with real firearms is authorized and justified in Venezuela. Other recent reports on the human rights situation, by Amnesty International or Human Rights Watch, also denounce serious human rights violations in Venezuela. And here it must be remembered that Venezuela left the Human Rights Convention in September 2013. And this decision prevents the citizens from being able to claim protection at the Human Rights International Court. Venezuela was therefore worthy of our attention, and a proposition, as far as we could make it, and no other than that of Carmelus Barrius. And there I must apologise to him, for I have forgotten to mention his initiation in the middle. And it is true that we agree with the last two resolutions of the European legislature, and that the rest of us demand that the government of the State of Venezuela be preserved and respected by universal human rights. In like manner we demand the authorities of the State of Venezuela to have the absolute autonomy of the division of power, and of the judicial power, to execute it impartially as the remutator of all the Venetians' human rights. And because we ask the government of Venezuela to release Leopold López, Antonio Ledezma, and all the other political prisoners, and also all the exiles, with assurance of their legalties and constitutionalties. At last we ask for a serious, social, economic, and political situation to settle all of us through conversation. And that's what we're asking for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u49	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u50	Thank you, and good morning, again. I believe that most of the members of this Chamber will agree when I say that the state of Venezuela is disturbing. Venezuela has a difficult situation in the economic area at this moment, and with it there has been a remarkable increase of violence and political polarization. By this means the ivory republic is becoming the center of the attention of all the world. 2014 was a year of mobilizations. They began in February with a wave of protests known as "The Departure", promoted by the Bureau of Democratic Unity, led by Leopoldo López, María Corina Machado and Antonio Ledezma, among others. The tension generated was very strong. As a result of those mobilizations and their consequent repression, Venezuelan solidarity broke even further. The irreparable loss of human life occurred. The most scandalous, the case of the 14-year-old Kluiverth Roa, murdered by a cop. Forty other people died in those days, and still today the relatives of many of the victims feel that no justice has been done. Complaints about the Government's control over justice are ongoing. The repression was enormous. Political persecution raged with opposition leaders, and many participants in those demonstrations were arrested and are still imprisoned today. There are more than 1,700 protesters awaiting trial, and sixty-nine of them in prison. Both international agencies (such as the Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, or the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, or the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights) and non-governmental human rights organizations (such as Amnesty International or Human Rights Watch) have denounced the excessive and disproportionate use of force by the police and members of the National Guard, as well as the involvement in the events of para-government armed groups. The complaint is extended to the fact that there has been no investigation and accountability for such serious events. Instead of opening up to dialogue, the Government of Nicolás Maduro has established itself in immobilism and closure, and has taken restrictive and restrictive measures to limit basic freedoms, with measures such as the one mentioned here, Ministry of Defence Resolution 8610, which allows the army to use firearms in the control of public meetings and peaceful demonstrations, which goes against the Venezuelan Constitution itself. The control of the various institutions of the rule of law is another of the obsessions of the Government of Nicolás Maduro: the Legislature, the Army and the Judiciary are manipulated and subjugated to the Executive. Another crusade has been opened by the control of the media. The public media are simply spokesmen of government slogans, trying to impose their criteria. On the other hand, the Government has tried, through sales operations, to control private means such as Globovisión. And finally, those who try to maintain their independence are confronted with the Resorte Law, of social responsibility of the media, which establishes how communication should be in the different media, the criteria to follow; that is, what and how they have to give the messages, if they do not want to risk a fine. As I said, instead of closing, the gap has opened even more, every day the international isolation of Maduro's Government is greater, and the discontent in Venezuela is more numerous. There are surveys that reflect this disagreement, with 68 per cent of respondents who negatively value the government's action, compared to 30 who support it. Precisely, more than 50% of Venezuelans hope that the positions of government and opposition will be moderated in order to achieve a dialogue that will seek Venezuela's exit from this complicated situation. At the end of this year, legislative elections will be held in Venezuela, and we believe that they should ensure the participation of all democratic actors, to whom we call for political confrontation not to go beyond the limits of the constitutional order and to aggravate the situation of disagreement. We would like these elections to be the beginning of a new political inclusive process, based on consensus, a new period in which all democratic forces assume responsibility for facing the future. Political polarization, confrontation and insecurity are obvious problems in Venezuela, but the economic situation is possibly becoming the country's fundamental problem. A country with immense natural resources, which should be one of the engines of development in the area, is now overwhelmed by an inflation that, according to some reports, is expected to exceed even 130% in 2015; the weakness of its currency, the bolivar, and the shortage of food and basic goods, which is making daily queues to supermarkets and supply centres. All this was caused by the fall in oil prices, which has put down the protectionism with which the governments of Chávez and Maduro had directed the economy. A problem that can even end the unity of the forces that supported Chávez and that today support Maduro: from Chavismo itself, symptoms of deep divisions that have not been known until then have emerged. The letter of Jorge Giordani, then Minister of Planning, who criticized the economic reality and the power struggles in the government of Nicolás Maduro, and who was therefore dismissed, and the departure of Héctor Navarro from the leadership of the Unified Socialist Party of Venezuela for supporting Giordani, or the increasingly harsh statements of the spokespersons of the Socialist Sea, increasingly critical with the government and who channel a discontent still within the Chavista ranks, are examples of this division. In the face of such a delicate situation, the European Parliament adopted a resolution by a large majority on 12 March, including the points of the compromise amendment signed by the groups in this House. That is why our amendment was strictly based on full adherence to that declaration. The December declaration has also been included, and in this regard I must thank Mr Barrio, and especially Mr Aguirre, for agreeing to make this general statement on something in which the majority groups in the European Parliament have already agreed, to which we also belong the groups that have signed this compromise amendment. Those resolutions of the European Parliament reflect the concern for the human rights situation in Venezuela, call for the release of the opponents, condemn the arbitrary detention of the mayor of Caracas, Antonio Ledezma, and hope that in the future, rather than the confrontation, dialogue between political forces will prevail. The Basque Socialists, without obviating the reality and the complaints made about the situation in Venezuela, want to make an appeal to the sanity, to dialogue from respect for all political ideologies and positions, both those who maintain the democratic opposition and those who maintain the legitimate Government, to the rejection of the extremisms that do not recognize the contrary. We are committed to the recovery of the dialogue table between the Government and the opposition, which unfortunately closed without achieving any achievement. We consider it essential to resolve this situation in order to foster dialogue, strengthen the country's institutions and achieve social cohesion. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u51	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u52	Yes, thank you, President. Venezuela is, today, a dictatorship where human rights are violated daily, political opponents are persecuted and imprisoned and the press is censored. That being the case, it is clear that we will vote in favour of the transactional that has been signed, and those who do not vote in favour of that transactional that we have signed a majority of groups will be saying with their vote that they are in favour of a cruel dictatorship still in place in Venezuela. And the situation is only getting worse. Already in December 2014, the European Parliament adopted a resolution condemning the persecution of the opposition in Venezuela and the constant attacks on its democracy, which is little or no distance from the resolution adopted later, in particular on 12 March 2015. We are talking about human rights violations, we are talking about lack of freedom, we are talking about impoverishment, investment flight, commodity shortages, citizen insecurity. Venezuela is the second country with the most homicides in the world, almost 25,000 in 2014. We are talking about persecution of democratic political opponents, violations of the rights of freedom of expression and demonstration, and brutal repression of the population by the Government of this dictatorship. We are talking about arbitrary detention of political opponents and opponents. We're talking about physical and psychological torture. We are talking about degrading treatment that is suffering thousands of citizens. We are talking about the existence of censorship in the media and websites, the use of brutal repressive violence against demonstrators. We are talking about a lack of judicial independence, of absolutely unpunished corruption. Recently, media leaders were banned from leaving the country. The President himself of the National Assembly confessed it on a television programme. There have been 155,788 murders since 1999, there have been 468 violent deaths in May in the capital district (the figure also represents an increase of 11 per cent over the total violent deaths in May 2014). On average, fifteen corpses were taken to the morgue every day of May; most were homicide cases, although there were also some for accidents, suicides and causes to be determined. We are talking about a situation of poverty that makes life impossible for thousands of Venezuelans. In the latest official figures released – corresponding to 2013 – poverty had increased by 6.7%, which meant that a total of 416,326 households were incorporated into the large population of poor people who suffer from social exclusion on a daily basis. In 2014, the overall inflation rate was 68 %, and in the food sector 100 %. Economic projections for 2015 suggest that overall inflation will exceed 100 %. We are talking about a severe decline in public revenue; about dependence on imports to cover basic needs; about a growing devaluation of the currency that generates high inflation rates; about trends – although they are more than trends – anti-democratic and authoritarian expressed in the State's refusal to engage in a plural and democratic dialogue with all sectors of Venezuelan society. We are talking about the country with the highest inflation in the world, which suffers from a dramatic financial situation and loss of purchasing power. We are talking about open inflation, scarcity and the depletion of all kinds of goods. We are talking about food shortages and food dependence, food rationing and lack of medicines, and all this despite being an oil-producing and exporting country. He would have more than enough money to guarantee the welfare of society as a whole, but that money has been taken by a dictatorial and corrupt government. This was written by my Venezuelan friend Yedzenia on her blog on February 6, 2015: "They say eyes that don't see the heart that doesn't feel, and that's probably what happens in the world when Venezuelans tell us what we suffer. When we say what happens in the country, it seems that we have a history of terror or science fiction. They look at us strange, sometimes even in disbelief. They think we're prey to feelings and that's why we overreact. People do not understand, and it is normal, it is increasingly difficult to explain how such a rich country is sunk into the deepest of misfortunes. "Getting them to believe that a kilo of chicken costs the change about 60 euros, and above all to make understand the Venezuelan exchange system, is more complicated than solving trigonometry problems when in full adolescence hormones monopolize the brain. And if we add the high level of repression to the media that have not yet been closed or bought by the Chavista-Madurist regime where any citizen can be imprisoned for simply photographing one of the humiliating queues to buy food, while the affections of the regime are self-censored showing a beautiful and multicolored world, as if Venezuela were the scene of a fairy tale, the issue becomes an impossible mission. "Photos running through the network need to be reviewed over and over again in order to be able to ensure their authenticity, and if there is no way to check them or they do not come from a source of trust, it is better not to spread them. "This Wednesday, taking advantage of the absence of her children and in the company of a friend, my mom went to do what my brothers tried to avoid her at all costs, making a long-hour queue to buy food. In my family we believe that the best way to compensate our old people for caring for us until we become good people is to save them any kind of hardship. However, in that family he sends a lady who is not used to standing idly by, let alone obeying her children. Well, which mother does? Who can tell a sexagenaria not to queue up to see if she can find milk for her grandchildren? "After more than five hours under the burning sun of the Caribbean, with the number 352 on her arm as if it were cattle for sale or an 18th-century slave, my mother was able to enter the supermarket. He managed to take several pictures of the tail and the abominable ink mark that recalls tragedies previously alien to our land. The place was ashamed, far away from those in which she so many times made the purchase for us and where the Anaquels full of products of different brands came out of the national industry. He was so far away from those who made him jump tears when he was out of the country, tears filled with the same bitterness and impotence that he felt when he saw those three numbers. My mom doesn't deserve this. No human being deserves it. "It is unfortunate, but the good luck of a Venezuelan is now measured by the success of not suffering a fainting in a tail, not being crushed in an avalanche of people desperate for chicken, nor shot for carrying a bag of diapers or corn flour. So when I finally got home feeling outraged at the result of the sixteen most corrupt years I've ever known, and at the same time lucky because I was lucky enough to come back healthy, safe and with articles that are in great need are increasingly difficult, I published the note of the number of the shame: 352. "352 are the slaps that at least deserve each of the thieves who have ruined this country. 352 are two numbers more than the article of the Constitution that for a long time all Venezuelans should apply to a string of shameless people who have allowed themselves to authorize the use of firearms against whom we protest, do not lick their boots or are willing to applaud as seals. 352 are the days that until yesterday (February 5, 2015) Leopoldo López was in prison. 352 are the millions of curses that have fallen upon the regime that hopes to solve the shortage with the manna that God will provide according to them. 352 the hoaxes that left around the world the president who resorts to international alms because the fifteen-year profits of the largest oil revenue in our history have not been enough to cover so much greed, waste and corruption. 352 are the years of imprisonment that I hope will fall to all those responsible for the regime that has flooded our streets with misery and blood. 352 are less than half of the rotten food containers that were found only in the warehouses of the Venezuelan Food Producer and Distributor in Tinaquillo on June 2, 2010. 352 is the number that does not represent even one thousandth of the tons of food that have been lost or the billions of dollars that have been donated. 352 are the corpses that exceed three quarters of those who entered the morgue of Bello Monte this January. "Finally, 352 for these petty ones is a number more in a queue more than one supermarket more in a city more of this great broken country that they don't care about for anything other than continuing to squeeze the little juice that's left. A number that reflects the reality that by more chains, by more repression, by more threats that they make to us, they cannot hide. Because the sun cannot be covered with a finger, and although Venezuela is living its darkest hours, the dawn is coming. "Once again, thank you, Mom." Indeed, we hope that Venezuela's Constitution will be complied with, and in particular its precious article 350, which reads: "The people of Venezuela, faithful to their republican tradition, to their struggle for independence, peace and freedom, will ignore any regime, legislation or authority that contravenes democratic values, principles and guarantees or undermines human rights."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u53	Mr. Maniro, get the hell out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u54	I hope that this article can be fulfilled as soon as possible and that the Venezuelan people will be free from this cruel repression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u55	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The Representative of the EH Group has the word. Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u56	Good morning, everyone. We are here to repeat a dispute which was given in the Parliament of Europe, which has been brought to us by the political parties which represent the market-place. It seems today that Cuba is no longer the ghost of a period for euscal and the right of Spain. It seems that Cuba is no longer the great Satan for the Basque and Spanish right represented here, and, as collaborators of the campaign of contempt and manipulation that exists against the legitimate government of Venezuela, add their forces to the coup idea, thus pretending to polarize the Basque population in relation to the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. Many have here spoken of the State of justice, of human rights, of liberty, but there is none of them that concerns you. Today we are witnessing in this House an exercise of political intrusiveness in defense of the Venezuelan coup right. How many initiatives have you, gentlemen of the PP and PNV, taken in relation to other countries of the world? You from the PNV have only taken two initiatives in relation to international policy for the full, and are Ukraine and Venezuela. Casually, they align with two coups d'état and those who defend the coups d'état. Is that the strategy of the Basque Government in relation to international policy? Supporting coups and beatings? Tell me the reasons why you don't talk about Mexico or Colombia, with opponents killed every day. Yesterday they murdered a candidate in Mexico from the PRD, and there are nine. There are people starving, politicians imprisoned, students killed... Tell me the reasons, to see if I understand them, because those that I think of pass by because you are aligned with those who allow such actions, identify with the powerful and not with the weak, with neocolonialism and not with the justice of the peoples. You were looking for us to be the ones to position ourselves with this initiative, but those who have removed the face are all of you, the defenders of the coup right, the signatories of the transaction. Venezuela, like what happens in many other countries, has, of course, many gaps; and this is especially logical from a democratic deficiency. But you never accused this former state of affairs in this chamber, accused the activity of the government which had been in Venezuela during the previous decades. While it is true that there are problems related to violence, destitution, even political corruption, and I will not deny them, it is no less true, however, that at least some information can be easily refuted. Thus – and I read data from this same May – in the last seven months alone on the border with Colombia have been seized by illegal smuggling 4,837 tons of food products, 541,000 litres of fuel, etc. Who are causing these shortages? I think you know it, and you know it very well: it is those to whom you defend here today. Mr. Jorge Roig Navarro, president of Venezuelan entrepreneurs, said this on January 22nd of this year, and I read textually: "I repeat it once again: as long as it continues to attack the private company there will be no production, and as a result there will be queues". The Venezuelan coup d'état is responsible for the destitution of the civilian population, causing thousands of people to lack basic resources. By the way, let no one forget that before Chávez's governments there were serious shortages in Venezuela that led the people to demonstrate in the streets and to plunder shops in order to survive. But the reasons for the shortages at the time were different, and it is that the great foreign debt contracted by the country and the application of the austerid recipes imposed by the IMF, as in the case of Greece, led to the unorbited rise in prices, which, accompanied by the fall in wages, made the Venezuelan people unable to access the few commodities that arrived in the country. A situation that had its peak in the 1989 Caracazo, which you have all forgotten, and the blood and fire repression of this social explosion, which left a minimum balance of about 300 dead according to official data, and more than 3,000 dead according to other data, hundreds of missing, and thousands of injured. At that time, in order to put an end to the protests that generated austerity measures, the Government came to suspend constitutional guarantees. In turn, and as a result of the shortage, the most disadvantaged people ate dog food, as it was the only thing they could afford to buy. The food was called Perrarina, in case you're interested. Caracazo hura gertatu zenean, Espainiako desinformaziorako komunikabideek ez zuten erregimem politicokoaz hitz egiten, ezta oppositionez. In those days when the Caracazo happened, the Spanish media did not talk about political regime or opponents or anything. They did not even defend the lives of the possibly thousands of murdered from among the protesters against a government of the Venezuelan oligarchy. But let's keep talking about that bucolic Venezuela that you worship. During that IV Republic the repression against the students was constant, and so is the Venezuelan media of the time. I read a headline: "Four university buses machine-gunned by the National Guard." In this context of democracy, freedom and free trade under the umbrella of the great American liberator, parents and mothers of missing students demanded that the Government know where their sons and daughters were buried, as is the case today, for example, in Mexico. Faced with these crimes, which were never investigated and which, of course, you never asked for any sanction from the Government of Venezuela, I will remind you that during the most recent riots, it is true that some of these victims have occurred among the demonstrators, a rapid count of the mortal victims reveals to an opposition that with their actions has taken the lives of a large number of citizens. The balance would remain as follows. Victims among the opposition protesters, thirteen: three of the victims would be attributable to members of the State security forces, who are currently suspended and under investigation, some of them have already been brought to justice; the rest are due to gunfire by armed civilians. Victims caused by opposition elements, twenty-five: nine of the victims die from traffic accidents caused by guarimbas (barricades) installed by opposition protesters; the rest die from shooting by opposition protesters, eight are agents of the state security forces. The prisoners of the attack against the victims have been identified, tried, condemned, and excluded from their care. Can you say the same thing to you in Cabacas? You are helping each other not to identify the elders or to pay for what you did. You talk about political freedoms. Well, during the time of the Fourth Republic, illegalization, imprisonment and persecution followed, especially of the left-wing parties. Today, however, the entire opposition is united and can give its opinion on the street, in Venezuelan media and in foreign media. But, given that some of you support the incarceration of people for the mere fact of doing politics in the Spanish State, you cannot ask them to understand it. It should be recalled that during the period of the Fourth Republic, the Fixed Point Pact was in force, allowing, through electoral fraud, turn between the two major parties. And that tens of thousands of people in the impoverished classes were not counted, so they could not exercise their right to vote. Nor was the Fourth Republic characterized by respect for freedom of the press. Although most of the country's private media were in the hands of a few wealthy families of the Government-affiliated elite classes (e.g. the Capriles), the same ones that control them today, different governments attacked press freedom, arresting journalists who wanted to publicize the situation in the country. Murders and coercion against journalists were daily, the same as they are today in Mexico and Colombia and other South American countries with which you have preferential relations. And it's just that you have to see what is the property of the media: as you can see, of the ten most viewed and important television channels in the country, only four are of public domain, while six are of private origin. As far as the written press is concerned, the proportion is less equal: of the six most important newspapers, only one is state, the rest belongs to private entities and media conglomerates. Private radios account for 97.2 of all the most influential and important radios. You, who speak of pluralism, are the same ones who do not criticise that in the Spanish State the whole of the media belongs to two large communication companies, both of conservative cutting. However, the problem has Venezuela, and not those prosecuted by Egin or Egunkaria. Everyone will remember the coup d'état against the legitimate Government in 2002. Let us remember that the participation of both the Spanish government of Aznar and certain Spanish transnational companies has been proven (declarations of Moratinos). Some like Anasagasti even applauded. All of you shut up. We have recently witnessed soft coups in various countries of the world. State coups aimed at destabilizing democratic governments in order to impose governments close to the imperialist interests of transnational corporations and the United States. You may not like Maduro or Chávez, Correa, Morales, or Pepe Múgica, despite opportunistic photos, or many others. Even so, they should respect the democratic decisions of different peoples, even if they do not like them, because they win elections, and that is what hurts them. They should respect them, whether in Venezuela, Donbass, Ecuador or Greece, and not guard and press for the interests of the powerful and economic elites. Perhaps what really hurts them is that the inequalities in Venezuela have been reduced; the macro and microeconomic data of international agencies say so. They may not like the impoverished to be less poor thanks to a government that prioritizes people over the interests of the oligarchy and businesses. Perhaps in substance what is happening is that you prioritize other issues, such as power rather than the freedom, dignity and justice of peoples.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u57	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Passing on the answering shift, Mr. Barrio. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u58	Thank you very much, President. With your permission, from the seat. Briefly, to thank you for signing the agreement. I think it's a relevant agreement. The four parliamentary groups, with the exception of the Bildu group, have signed a reference agreement, based on statements by democratic international bodies (the European Parliament, statements by the UN Secretary General, human rights organisations, Acnudh...) on these issues, and on objective data that we have been able to appreciate and study and analyse, and with which we participate, and – I say again – we sympathize with the situation of the Venezuelan people. Let's see, it seemed like we were listening a moment ago to Maduro's press chief making some statements, the typical piece of paper we know when we see these kinds of charges talking about the excellence of a regime that we all know. But, Mr López de Munain, do you really justify the arrests of opponents, torture, extreme poverty, judicial submission, militarization, murder, uncompensated victims, deaf ears to international calls, annihilation of freedom of expression, student repression...? I mean, that's today! And if it is necessary to condemn abuses, atrocities, injustices of another moment, then, we will do so, there is no doubt about it. If there is a violation of human rights, we will do so, as we have done at any time. But, Mr López de Munain, you have a serious problem with human rights. You have a serious problem with human rights. And you have come here in expression and in use of Bolivarian propaganda to the effect, but of course you, Mr López de Munain, have not committed to the defense of human rights, systematically violated every day in Venezuela. And we have made reference to what has been the international pronouncements of independent organizations on this issue. Recently we also see that the president of the legislative chamber is accused of drug trafficking, with another number of important public representatives of the army and political life. I mean, that's Venezuela today, that's Venezuela: dictatorship, repression, drug trafficking and impoverishment. And indeed, inequalities have been reduced, but because they are all much poorer, thanks to the actions of the Chávez and Maduro regime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u59	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u60	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. It cannot be denied that some of Venezuela's indexes were good or were once good. And I've told you before, and I've confessed to the disappearance of analfabetism and the decline of former poverty in 2003 and 2006. That's true, but things have changed and they're still worse. Mr López de Munain, you mentioned the coup right, in your amendment to the whole it mentions the Government of the United States, the Government of Spain, multinationals or transnationals, and urges that the groups leading the soft coup created against the will democratically expressed in the ballot box by the majority of citizens should be stopped. I am the first to denounce the coups d'état, all of them: the coup d'état against President Árbenz in Guatemala in 54; the two coups of 73 in Uruguay and Chile; in 76 in Argentina; in 68 in Peru, and also the coup of Thursday, April 11, 2002 against President Maduro. I condemn all coups d'état, because – here they will have heard it more than once from our parliamentary spokesman Joseba Egibar – in politics shortcuts are not worth, they are not worth, let alone coups d'état. And I'm going to tell you one thing: on February 4, 1992, Lieutenant Colonel Hugo Chávez Frías gave a coup d'état against President Carlos Andrés Pérez, a socialist legitimately elected by the Venezuelan people. Lieutenant Colonel, February, coup player... at last, it might sound like something to you. And a lot of people died in that coup d'état. Among others, Gaizka Etxearte, son of Domeka Etxearte, historical Basque nationalist militant, abertzale of pure strain, also had to be exiled with his parents to Venezuela because here a quartet [[Sic]] On 18 July 1936, he also made a coup d'état. Gaizka was a student, and when his aita took him to the Faculty of Engineering he hit him with a bullet from the coup and died in the arms of his aita. Therefore, here we are not going to talk about coups d'état, because whoever leads a coup d'état with three thousand soldiers is not someone who believes in democracy or who is a Democrat: he is an aspiring dictator. I believe that every coup d'état has the same intention: to forcely impose a model, a model of government on society, which is logically under arms. And the one who uses weapons to impose ideas is neither democrat nor believes in democracy. Of those we've seen a lot in Latin America and here. And, in my opinion, to give a coup of the State is not to believe in politics, and to believe in a democracy is not to be a democrat. The use of violence is not to impose certain ideas to be democrat. To kill people is not to be democratized, and it is not to believe in democracy. And Hugo Chavez, before the democracy and before election was won, was a goal track. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u61	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u62	Yes, with your permission, from the seat. Mr López de Munain, really that if Maduro had to choose a defender I think he would do very badly by choosing you, because the first thing to do to defend a cause is to make self-criticism, analysis of the situation, not to deny that there are problems, which is what you have done. There seems to be no problem in Venezuela: there is no economic problem, there is no problem of freedoms, there is no problem of violence... There's no problem. And the worst thing that can be done, as I say, to defend a problem, is to avoid it, close your eyes, cover your ears, and speak only with demagogy, that is, flattering who wants to be flattered, whom you want to flatter. All you've done is flatter the one you have to correct. Because the situation in Venezuela, like any other country, is not solved if the opponent is not recognized, if the opposite is not recognized. And what you've done is that, not recognizing the contrary, just accusing him of beating... That, by the way, Antonio Ledezma still has no more accusations than those made by the Government. There is no proof of all those accusations made to him, more than this. His process is paralyzed by this precisely because there are no accusations, there is no evidence that he intervened in any form of unlawful action, but that there have been the accusations of the Government and that has caused a democratically elected person, as democratically as Maduro, to be in prison today, without any evidence other than the accusations of the Government. And, I insist, as democratically elected Mr Ledezma as Mr Maduro. Therefore, what I was saying at the end of my speech – and I see that you, Mr López de Munain, are not going to get into that – is dialogue, is openness, is that the elections that are coming this year involve that change of inflection. For what? So that Venezuelans and Venezuelans can live better, which is what we Socialists are interested in. And nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u63	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u64	Yes, thank you, President. It is no joke that EH Bildu is taking the position and has taken on this issue. In short, it has not only denied the problems that actually exist and that are perfectly proven in Venezuela, but has defended a dictatorship, and has defended the systematic violation of human rights in that country, as a result of which thousands of Venezuelans are suffering repression every day of the year. Many of them have been killed as a result of that dictatorship. This is therefore a very serious issue, and you are, at last, laughing when we raise these problems which are absolutely certain and which are per fectly demonstrated by independent studies, by democratic countries and by people who live there. And you laugh, and this is no joke. Indeed, in the end, EH Bildu's amendment, like his speech, is a cluster of nonsense and paranoia, and above all of a pitiful display of insensitivity, which would provoke laughter if it were not true and not perfectly demonstrated that there is no freedom of expression in Venezuela, basic human rights are violated, political opponents are imprisoned and tortured, censorship is in place, and the situation of poverty continues to grow. The poverty situation continues to grow. And this, of course, cannot be respected, but strongly denounced. Many regimes in other countries that are in force today can be denounced, and we could also discuss that long and focused, but today's issue is to see what the situation is in Venezuela. And Venezuela today is a dictatorship. And I say, they are certain data and verified by democratic countries and absolutely independent reports. Do you justify all this? Does it justify detention without judicial guarantees, the existence of prisons converted into graves, torture and ill-treatment, censorship, corruption? Do you justify all this? Is all this funny to you? Do you think that this is defendable in a democratic parliament? Do you not feel ashamed for having made the speech you have made, for having raised that amendment, that even fellow Members of your own group should have said to you, or to the appropriate person, that this is absolutely indefensible, and that it is certainly regrettable that you have been able to register a similar amendment, which insults intelligence and insults thousands of Venezuelan citizens? Finally, I sent my Venezuelan friend EH Bildu's amendment to explain, with the clarity that characterizes him, his opinion on the issue, and my Venezuelan friend transmitted it to a Venezuelan friend of his, and the answer was this: "It's pure shit, and inside the shit this is an argumentative fallacy. To continue to respect all international agreements, he said. No, they don't respect international agreements, they violate them." This is what one person who is suffering every day from a cruel dictatorship said. This matter has been brought to this Parliament, and of course we have not been able to, we have not wanted to look elsewhere, but of course we want to sympathize with thousands of Venezuelans who suffer from this situation. And, therefore, the least that can be done is to support that transactional.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u65	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Łódź de Munin is the representative of the EH team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u66	In the first of all, I thought you were talking about the Spanish State, when you were talking about human rights violations, imprisoned political prisoners, torture... The problem is that they've turned on a lot more when they say that that happens outside of when it happens in their own homes. And that's the big fallacy, that's his big fallacy. That is also the great fallacy that happens in the European Parliament, that Parliament in which in five years, if I am not mistaken, yes, five initiatives have been approved, all of them carried out by the European People's Party, to discredit the legitimate government of Venezuela. You should begin to agree, first of all, on how we qualify Venezuela, if as a dictatorship, as a democracy... Because both in the end come to discredit their own arguments, because some say that if in Venezuela the opponents, elected as democratically as Maduro can be, are imprisoned or can be imprisoned, others deny the capacity, even deny that there is a democracy in Venezuela... And one and the other in the end with what they align with is the line, with the geostrategy of the United States, the transnational corporations, and they do the usual one again: they re-turn their policy in relation to the powerful and not in relation to the justice of the peoples and respect for the sovereignty of the peoples in South America. The group that supports the Government has brought two initiatives to the House throughout the legislature, having had these two initiatives, and one of them is Venezuela. I would like to know whether Venezuela is really a problem for this Government, at least so that, of the only two initiatives brought by the majority group in this House, one of them is Venezuela. Is this what marks the international line of the Basque Government?, the support to the coups of the Venezuelan right, in the end help them, support them, delegitimize the sovereign decision of a people? Is that the new foreign nation policy of the Basque Government? You of the PNV, who demand respect for the sovereignty of this country, you should have the same respect for the sovereignty of a democratic country such as Venezuela. And I'm not going to go in if there's a shortage or there's no shortage. I have said this, and I have said this since the beginning of my first speech, I have spoken of problems, and many of them very serious, in Venezuela. But you will also have to see who are the cause of these problems, because the responsibilities here you always place them in the same place, and you never hold those who cause all of a political destabilization in the whole region of South America absolutely responsible for nothing. You are acritic with those who have the power. You criticize those who nationalized energy companies, because they respond to the interests of these Spanish energy companies. You are responsible for those who tend, or who at least apply a policy against the media of misinformation, that many of them are owned by Spanish state media based in Venezuela, as is the case in Argentina and other countries of South America. You guys are still disinforming. You have made (you and your European groups) Europe paint absolutely nothing in international politics. And he paints absolutely nothing because Europe does not cease to be the monarch of the United States. You've done it. You have managed, today, to make us do it again in this plenary... And you will remember when I brought up the subject of Greece and you were telling me that it was a waste of time. How could we bring an issue of the sovereignty of another country to debate in this Parliament? You can do it, of course you can do it. But in that Europe where Venezuela's human rights are so much concerned, they are not at all concerned about human rights in Greece. They are not at all concerned by the coups in Ukraine, they are positioned with the coupsmen in Ukraine. They are not worried that the military in Ukraine too, or armed people in Ukraine, would give a coup d'état. I don't think it's for a democracy, according to your theory. I would also like to remind those who today, for military reasons in Basque internationalism, are being tried and have been tried by the National Court. That respect for human rights and the freedom of opinion that you demand for Venezuela does not have it for the National Court. They demand freedom, and that these trials be brought to an end against Basque militants who are militants in internationalism, because it has not been nor is it a crime. The internationalist is not a crime. And, as it is said in Venezuela, we will live and win. [[Words]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u67	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. End of discussion, we'll vote for the popular Basques, Misto-UPyD, Eukal Sociialists, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eubertarians. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; 52; the opponents are 20; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u68	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal as a team of the Misto-UPyD legislatures about turning Foronda into an international airport. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u69	Thank you very much, President. We are bringing the Foronda affair back, not because we have brought it on other occasions, but because it has been other groups that have raised this matter on other occasions, which we think is still very topical, since this airport is still not taking off, it is still not being used as it deserves, and it is still not improving its situation at all levels. The fact is that a report commissioned by the Basque Government recently concluded that Vitoria airport is the best airport infrastructure in Euskadi, ahead of Loiu (Bilbao) and Hondarribi (San Sebastián), because it is the largest, safest and least weather-related infrastructure. The Foronda track is undoubtedly the most suitable in the Autonomous Community to host intercontinental flights and flights in general. Foronda, however, has been without just regular passenger flights for years. Two years ago he saw how AENA was reducing its staff and schedule, and how in recent times from different institutions it has not been done what should be done to improve the situation of the airport. It has just been the opposite: reduction of hours, suppression of the PIF, and lack of institutional support, beyond words and promises. Not only that, but politically it benefited certain airports, such as Zaragoza, by simple electoral or party interests, without rational justification that could be defended and argued. It is clear that the managers of the Spanish airports have made a disastrous management in recent years, and that the institutions have not acted correctly in relation to Foronda. In sight it is: many promises, many words, but at the time of truth absolutely nothing. Foronda is the best Basque airport and surely the best airport in northern Spain. And how is it possible that there was no political will to give it the use it can give and that citizenship needs? Why has there not been political will to support Foronda, an infrastructure that already exists, an infrastructure that is very well and that, as I say, is the best in Euskadi? Moreover, why has there been a clear political will to harm Foronda? Curiously enough, the airport with the best conditions for servicing aircraft in the Basque Autonomous Community is the only one with hardly any commercial flights, as stated in the report. Foronda has enough runway, 3,600 meters, and a favorable orography for landing and above all take-off of all types of aircraft. It can operate even the largest commercial aircraft of today, the Airbus A380. In 2007 it added 175,000 passengers, but the Irish low cost company flew, Iberia also did, and attempts like Helitt's have failed. Only 7,000 users had the terminal in 2013, all charter flights or special operations. There are no flights in Foronda because there are no services, and there are no services because there are no flights. The same happens with the operating hours: AENA reduced it in August 2012 from twenty-four hours to twelve hours, and at night, and we did not get out of the situation we are in. What is really urgent in Vitoria is to maintain the current cargo activity in the face of difficulties, and also to diversify it, because it depends too much on just one or two companies. Moreover, without the so-called H24 Foronda it is less attractive. And in relation to the border inspection point, the report itself points out that it is a strategic and vital facility for its survival: without the PIF, no fish, fresh seafood or live animals can be transported. The Foronda airport has a suitable track, as I say, for international flights, and the possibility to accommodate the largest aircraft operating in the market, with much less security problems than Loiu. It is just over half an hour from Bilbao and one hour from San Sebastian by road. These times are similar or even smaller to those that have to be endured in order to travel from the center of the big cities to the international airports. Finally, the Foronda airport can, in our opinion, perfectly fulfil the functions of a regional airport for international long distance flights of reference for the Basque Autonomous Community and also for neighbouring communities. Only what is intended and what we are asking is that there be political will, and that the right decisions be taken so that this is actually possible. And I believe that all groups without exception in this Parliament know perfectly well what those decisions should be made. In fact, some of them are also reflected in the compromise amendment signed by EH Bildu, the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group. We have discussed them on countless occasions in this Parliament. It is necessary to recover the H24, that is, it is open 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, to accommodate flights. It is essential to recover the border inspection post, which allows the entry of perishable products and live animals, one of the important business niches of the Foronda cargo. It is necessary to recover the industrial project that was designed at the time, during the previous legislature, to be located in the vicinity of the airport and that would be aimed at attracting companies related to aeronautics and others. Foronda has to be promoted as the reference airport of northern Spain for international and intercontinental flights, because it meets the best technical and infrastructure conditions of this entire area of the Iberian peninsula. Finally, the report commissioned by the Basque Government coincides with this assessment, and points out, for example, that Loiu can only host European and Canary flights, while Foronda can host intercontinental flights and host the largest aircraft operating at this time. Finally, VIA society also has a lot to say and do, the society that promotes the Foronda airport. And do everything possible to actually bring flights, flights and more flights, so that Foronda, which is an infrastructure that is already built, and that is very well, will again be useful to all Basque citizens. Anyway, this is what we're claiming. Of course, I say that we all share many of the measures that should be taken. I have read his speeches in other debates, and we all say similar things. We know the things that have been done wrong by different governments, and we know what should be done. Finally, I proposed to the different groups a compromise amendment that would take all those measures, but it was finally rejected because it did not include in that transactional what is included in its, which is the famous transfer. I do not think the transfer will benefit Foronda at all. I don't think so. I don't think that's the important issue that should be discussed. I think we need to take another series of measures, I say, which were set out in that compromise amendment which I proposed to you, some of which are also set out in the compromise amendment which you have signed. In view of this amendment which you have signed, we, of course... I have no problem voting in favour of the first of the points. Many things have been voted for in this Parliament on this issue, many things have been said, many things have been promised by different governments, but time is passing and nothing is being fulfilled. I think we should move from words to facts. I hope that this debate will at least serve this purpose, and it will also serve to reflect that in this Parliament the different groups, some of them, many of them, agree fundamentally on what should be done so that Foronda is indeed that airport that they deserve, which we the Basque citizens deserve. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u70	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, Mrs. Betialgariangodia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u71	Thank you and good noon to everyone. How many times have we discussed the state of the Forum in this term? As a matter of fact, there's plenty of them. And as it does not happen with many subjects, this subject has obtained a great deal of assent in this Chamber. What did they do with it? Now, I should say, in a little while, that we are in the former place; and that is very bad, because the passage of time makes the fate of the Foronians desperate. I think EH Collect has nothing left to say to him, he has said: That it is for the promotement of the Fortons, that it defends a 24-hour practice, that we demand the restoration of PIF, that both of them are indispensable to the potential of Foronda, in order to continue to be an airport which ought to be very important. The question is not, therefore, to agree in the legislative, or to do it in several other institutions. That's what it is: and PP is still in the opposite direction, and the Spanish Government remains the same. And the conclusion is that the situation is very serious. In the case of the Fortons time is up against him, and an airport with certain competency can be avoided. And our question is whether it is the game of some of them: let Foronda go out, and let it pass, without telling me what is defending." We don't intend to play that game, and we want to make a clear bet on the Forums today. Base, priority, 24 hours and PIF service is retrieving. Without that there's no future, no plan for Foronda to survive. It is therefore a demand, that those who are concerned with it should really do so, that the majority should not remain in nothing, which we defend. In fact, he's not here at the moment, but Mr Maroto will have the present, one of those days when we were discussing the subject last year, he told me how they got the deal from Madrid and the government of the PPP and the Jeltmatic Party. The treaty was signed, and the rupture was committed, but Foronda did the same for himself. It was clear to us that the necessary measures were not made in the agreement, and that the demands made from here were not sufficient, and that the majority of them remained in the void. It's clear that Foronda is the best airport and almost the only one we have to do for her. We do not defend ourselves against others (for instance, Burgos or Zaragoza), but it is plain that PP's government is cutting down the way to Fordonia. For the last few years, Foronda has shown that the result has been improved as an airport (in any case, up to 8% of 2003). In 2014, however, since what is called Ephience Plane has been set up, Foronda has continued to increase, because a general rise has been given, but she has taken advantage of this situation more than ever, and without condition and without means the Foronda has been unable to extract enough profit from the improvement of this state. The Zaragoza has taken advantage of the operator's advantages, and its growth has been twice as much as possible. This shows that it is essential to listen to the application that it is an operator, and it is not enough that PP proposes to vacate his attitude to increase the operation he proposes. It's essential to be operational for the whole time. So it's urgent that Foronda should remain an important airport and have a future, and, by the way, she's fine enough to help other flights. What I mean is, without closing the door to this last one, that the future will be guaranteed to be the potential for loading as an airport and that we have to put on the force, not everything, but the boss. All other groups mention international flights, and it seems that this Foronda could be true. In order to solve this, the discussion about the Fortons' dimensions is made about the future, between airports in the Basque Country. And that's what we have to decide about the airport policy and don't let Madrid decide about us. As I have said, we mentioned three points which were essential to us in our correction, though afterwards we have made a middle course, and we are still on our side. The Spanish Government ought to be required to interrupt the activity which it has used to stifle Foronda, and to take these two principal measures which are referred to to to guarantee the future; and thirdly, to increase the efforts of the few results which have hitherto been made, to render it a more extensive representation, and to demand a meeting with the Spanish Government to negotiate. As to the contributions of the other groups, and beginning with the UPD, which is the proprieties, we think it is the time to say what the principal demands are without light and without blasphemy; and therefore we do not agree with the first point, though the second seems acceptable to us. To ask AENA for an examination and to think that he will continue to support the Forums is not very convincing to us, much less when he has been able to close up an airport in the process of privatization for the first time. Your proposal, for instance, mentions the saturation of airports, but it must be said that Logroño and Burgos, for instance 2003 and 2008, were built for no financial, not social, but probably for a double purpose: in order to ensure the elections of local authorities and the profit of the building sector. And the consequence is that the debt of AENA, which is of that age, is the result of the position of airports with great opportunities, not well functioned like Foronda. For this reason we do not think it effective that Foronda has sufficiently demonstrated his capacity, his potentiality, and its competency. But if the means are not placed, it will be more and more difficult to give good numbers, and may be in danger. Besides what has been said about PP's proposal, it must be added that the services made by window and application are not guaranteed to the future, and that they are in trouble; for the workers must always be ready for nothing, and also because they are raised by the cost. It's just a few months ago that, in response to the request, two flights are lifted up in the Foron. In addition, it is a great obstacle to the operations of travellers, to the service of the Hanging among many other things, because the service which supports the entrance after the landing is necessary. And it happens at night, when Foronda is open, that most of the flights removed from Loiu can't land there, I repeat, because there is no service mentioned during the open time. As for PSE's proposal, it's obvious that at the first point we agree. In the other two, well, it's well known that the discussion around our hands is well known, and I'm glad we finally made one in the middle. And it has happened to us in the same way as the Jeltza Party of the Euric Party, we do not agree with the first and second point, but it is manifest that we agree, that we have also made the request of the transfer, and that we have just signed the middle course. And I must say that we have signed the only half-way proposition that has come into our hands, for this group has come to nothing else, though afterwards it is said in a general tongue, and that everyone seems to be putting us all into the same sack. Some even ignore us for proposals. And we've signed the medium that we've signed, because though we don't agree on other things, we agree on this important point and consider it important that we're able to get a large deal of harmony in this legislature on these two major points (the 24 hours and the PIF service). We seek to assert that this harmony is large, that it is also effective, for once it is wide, and that its importance is genuine. And the proposition says that it is still a matter of actual reality, but it is true that we may not be asked here often that we say so, but that this discussion, this proposition, was given in the beginning of learning, that we have come to the end of the year, and that it shows us a great deal more than any other. Yes, it is important, but then we leave it for many months, including the many different reasons, which I know until the argument is discussed. And we believe that the state requires more than this, that our commitment and a strong impulse are required, and that this group has for the sake of consent, so that PPk and Madrid will be able to hear it out loud, that a majority is here for this consent, and that this is the only one that can guarantee the future of the Forrons. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u73	President, ladies and gentlemen. Perhaps what can draw attention to this initiative at first glance is that both this initiative and that which the People's Party has withdrawn are initiatives made about a year ago. That is to say, there has even been time for both of these initiatives to have been able to withdraw because something has been going on for a very long time. One initiative was made in July, and another initiative was made in August, and it was reported in September that flights to New York were cancelled for lack of passengers. That is to say, one of the great bets which has the majority political will of this House, which is a certain type of flight, because, on this, an important investment was made, an interinstitutional agreement was made, and it was intended to do something very punctual that I think, as I had the opportunity to criticize it at the time, did not make much sense, because every time there is some reason to move a little bit (for there are elections coming, or there is too much media pressure, or whatever), because, they gather and agree to make a flight to Mallorca, a flight to New York... Finally, very punctual things, but always without a plan, without a clear idea and without a proposal that has continuity in time. Because the problem, or what has to be highlighted in relation to Foronda, is not the virtues. There has also been much talk here today of virtues, the quality of the airport has been reiterated... In short, over time the virtues will probably go away, because the airport will become old, because the investments that since 2011 are not finished are being made, because the current government of Spain does not want to do those support works to give more service to what this airport means and to the opportunities that it can create, logistics, this airport, and, therefore, over time to these virtues probably, if it continues to do so, will go down. So, I think the highlight of Foronda Airport, as I say, are not those potentialities and virtues. The highlight of the Foronda airport is that there is a government of the People's Party (absolute majority in Spain, which remains, I suppose, I hope and wish, a few months) that does not want to give to this airport, depending on its capacity, depending on its ability to give that logistic service, does not want to give it the role and the protagonist that it deserves and that it already had before it became government by absolute majority. This is the big problem! I suppose that is why the People's Party has also withdrawn its initiative, because today the truth is that any position of the People's Party in relation to Foronda is indefensible, because the only thing that can be expected of those who are ruling and who have an absolute majority is that, if they really want to do something about Foronda Airport, they do it; that they move forward at H24, that they move forward at PIF, that they move forward on any of the services that have been loaded and that they have not been replaced month after month, year after year. It was said on the last occasion that this matter was discussed that there was no problem with Foronda, that every time it was needed it would be open...; it was argued that the previous Foronda airport was unsustainable because it generated tremendous costs... The Government of Spain reiterated this very recently. In short, there is a clear strategy to be empowered, or to have been empowering airports around us and to have been letting the Foronda airport die. This happened with Zaragoza, it happened with Burgos, and it almost happened with Logroño. The strategy of the Spanish Government, which had long been decided, was to charge Foronda, to reduce its staff to a minimum (more than five times it has reduced that staff), to charge all services, to charge all passenger flights, and to leave Foronda abandoned to its fate. Well, this is the picture, this is the reality. I believe that, although it is repetitive to have brought this here today, it seems good to me that it has, because the problem is still pending. I think it is good that this House, once again by an enlarged majority, with that compromise amendment that we have made, can stand up for the role that this airport has to play and bet on an airport strategy both for Euskadi and for Spain, as well as for the international, totally different. I believe that this is a compromise that we are going to renew today, but more with the hope and with the expectation of what can happen after the general elections to be held in the near future. Because there is no time left for this Government, and even if there is no time left for it, and there is no desire to put anything in favour of Foronda, but on the contrary, to take it up little by little, which is what it has done. Therefore, in the compromise amendment that has been put forward, we are satisfied with that part of keeping alive the flame of this claim and this claim, and I assume that the most sensible and perhaps most productive thing will be to reposition ourselves for a few months, for after the general elections, and to try to open up a channel of relations with the next Government of Spain that will allow Foronda to regain the capacity, potential and services that it had before the arrival of this Government and that this Government has loaded itself. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u74	Thank you, Mr Price. Mr. Barrio, who represents the Potion of Basque Groups, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u75	Thank you, President. Well, I, regardless of some defeatist and aggravation speeches and already electoral key, am going to focus a little on looking for a positive reading, or seeing that things can be done because there are paths to go, right? My group has withdrawn its non-legislative proposal, since certain circumstances have overcome some of the specific situations, and we believe (we believe) that it is better to move in the field of agreements than in the field of disagreements. She is not here today, but I think it is also a gesture on our part to try to see that there has been good news since the presentation of those initiatives, which of course made it equally necessary to put the point on some other issues to which I am going to refer. And I am going to refer to the agreement that the Basque Government and the Foral de Álava, the City of Vitoria and the Alavesa Chamber of Commerce signed last November, on which a joint position, a position of effort, a position of progress, a position of future in relation to the airport can and must be articulated. It's a very important document, and then I'll stop. Moreover, today the Foronda airport is on the right path to progress. Some data demonstrate this, the stable situation that has been achieved following the development of the implemented and agreed efficiency plan, and these are also objective elements that need to be assessed. Because that too is a journey not of losses, not of setbacks, but of progress and of being able to visualize a future, isn't it? And, of course, in Mr. Maneiro's non-law proposal, we share a lot of the things that are said in it. It is a good time to recall those institutional advances in support of Foronda on an existing reality. I believe that that agreement of 24 November, a few months ago, of the Basque Government, the Foral Chamber of Álava, the City Council of Vitoria and the Chamber of Commerce is there for reference. And what do you say? Let's see, let's see what keys that possibility or that need for joint action manifests itself in. The first of these is that their respective institutional representations express their common conviction that Foronda Airport is an indispensable infrastructure for the future balanced development of the city of Vitoria, of the territory of Álava and, ultimately, of the whole of Euskadi. It is a reference, it is an approach, an objective of joint action by these institutions. Not bad, is it? Not bad. In this connection, they declare the need to agree on the institutions' will to promote the immediate operation of the Foronda airport, for the better management of its potentialities and the more efficient development of its facilities. Well, there's a commitment then to acting. A second point: that this declaration, this demonstration, this agreement wants to be translated into an impetus for very specific measures aimed at the immediate improvement of the operation of the airport infrastructure, jointly understanding that its mere implementation would represent a major step forward for these purposes. Accordingly, those administrations represented in that agreement, without prejudice to their particular and legitimate vision of the overall and future development of Foronda Airport, agree to jointly promote the implementation of the measures that will then be stated, and to defend the need before competent authorities and authorities in relation to decisions affecting Foronda Airport. And that is where we come into the urgent measures, the measures that are being implemented and that these administrations are going to try to push, realistically, but looking for effectiveness. And in that sense the road is not bad, it is not developed by bad routes, seeing some of the data, seeing some of the investment ads at the Foronda airport, such as those of DHL, etc. Well, there's the good news, but let's see what the Basque Government, the Foral de Álava, the City Council of Vitoria and the Chamber of Commerce are committed to. For, among other things, there is already talk of the border inspection post: all the signatory administrations commit themselves to the execution of as many steps as necessary for the cancellation of the suspension, in the shortest possible time, of the border inspection post, on the basis of the following premises. For it is a joint action, which is being done, that we hope it will bear fruit, but it is an action that is being done. Let's see, perishable products come, animals come by air, and the border inspection post will take effect immediately. But, well, you certainly remember there, don't you? They propose the reactivation with organic independence of the other PIF currently operational and close. Reactivation will be required upon request or upon request, with the requirement of sufficient publication of the new service by AENA, guaranteeing the same. All comparator administrations undertake, if necessary, to assume the cost of reactivation of the service in specified terms. Ultimately, the Basque Government, through the Department of Environment and Territorial Planning or another designated for this purpose by material attribution of competence, assumes the full obligation to finance the service of the PIF. In other words, there are commitments, agreements, which on these bases is where the relaunchs are carried out or where action is planned for the future. Second of the clauses, service 24 hours: maintenance of the possibility of opening the airport on request outside the operating hours and in advance of four hours. This request will be carried out accompanied by the requirement of sufficient publication, warranty by the means previously expressed, approval for all flights, which applies to applications with a minimum advance of fifteen days, which applies to aircraft with seasonal charter operations, punctual charter operations for aircraft with a maximum take-off weight of 18,500 kilos... In other words, there are commitments also in relation to the service 24 hours. And also with the operations with passengers: the Basque administrations, these four administrations (the three administrations and the Chamber of Commerce), agree that the Foronda airport, due to its location and technical characteristics, has an important opportunity as a market airport for long-distance flights, where aircraft require a certain runway length, characteristic infrastructures... In other words, steps are being taken to ensure that administrations act jointly before authorities, before companies, before administrations. I mean, those steps are still being taken, which we certainly value more than anything. And, in addition to those steps that you want to take, that you need to take, that you want to take together for passenger operations, that we hope will come (there has been some increase in recent years; small, but there it is), so, let us hope that they will be consolidated and materializing and that they will be looking for new opportunities. And that is done in union, not in disunity. This is done in union, as in this document or this agreement the administrations (the Basque Government, the Municipality of Álava and the City of Vitoria) are proposing. And it is also deepened in cargo operations and the industrial sector, and it is said that the signatory administrations, aware of the value of the Foronda airport in cargo and goods and its potential as a dynamizer of the industry sector, are also committed to a number of things and a common job for that very reason. Well, here are the keys identified by the institutions and on which to work and continue to value as the effective issues to be put in place. And I believe that yes, that in that sense there is no need to do, indeed, after the years that have passed, but Foronda is moving forward, and that is what we have to value. It has already been said that the efficiency plan of AENA was effective in Foronda: in the year 2013 an annual increase of 8,2 % of cargo; in 2014 there was also a significant increase of 19 % in the accumulated to December, with also an increase of 9 % in aircraft movements, which implies a greater activity of the airport... In other words, in that sense, we are moving forward and taking steps. There has also been important news, because the Council of Ministers approved in December 2014 the equalisation of fees for passenger flights outside the operating hours. That is, they are issues that can lead to improvements, progress, qualities that Foronda can take advantage of. And in relation to what I have already commented on of the agreement, but effective, regarding the PIF, in September last year all the necessary steps were made with the three ministries involved in the reopening of the PIF (Health, Agriculture, Finance and Public Administrations). It is expected that companies, Decoexsa or any company that may be affected, require the service, submit a letter of intent, a contract justifying the need for the reopening of the PIF, and the PIF will be opened. And there's the needs, there's the question. We have to be realistic, and there are possibilities for progress. I say again, the burden increases if companies settle down. And there is important news that must also be seen with optimism: DHL, in information from last April, this April, expands its facilities at the Foronda airport, 23 million euros, that is, expands its capacity, its potentials. I mean, you don't have to be pessimistic, you don't have to be aghast. I believe that the way is that which I have described, which is that of the institutions acting jointly in favour of Foronda, acting in favour of a realistic, objective airport network, where the interests that have to prevail are given priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u76	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u77	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good noon to all. The position of our party is known around the state of Foronda's airport; First, to demand necessary measures for the headline to be able to work 24 hours a day, and secondly to perform what has been agreed on in the Basque Autonomy State for 35 years, in order to transfer necessary resources to the use of our airport jurisdiction. The position of our political group, as I say, has always been clear on this point. The political objective has been and is to ensure that Foronda Airport is fully operational 24 hours a day, because we are convinced that, to the extent that Foronda operates and works well as an airport, this benefit will undoubtedly have a positive impact on Gasteiz, Araba and Euskadi. It must be said, however, that Foronda Airport is a State-owned infrastructure, which manages AENA, under the Ministry of Development, for the exercise of State competence in airport matters. And competence is the set of powers, powers, powers and, consequently, responsibilities that correspond to a given administration or body, is the share of power that is allocated to each administration, but also, correlatively, of the responsibilities that derive from the administrative action of that entity and, therefore, from its political responsibilities. That is why it must be said that the Ministry of Development and AENA, currently headed by the People's Party, are responsible for the current situation in Foronda. That is why we do not think that the amendment by the Group of the European People's Party should be accepted, demanding that the Basque Government be genuinely involved in the empowerment of Foronda. It is an exercise I do not know whether of cynicism, but sure of political escapism, for trying to avoid their responsibilities and escape from the problems that currently afflict the airport of Foronda. Because, as has been said, if you want to empower Foronda you have nothing more to do with it, Mr Barrio. You referred to the November agreement last year, and what you have to do, as I say, is get serious about it. An agreement that had an effect of barely fifteen days, because you dismarried from it before an initiative of our group in the Congress of the Deputies of Madrid. I was in the belief so far that the People's Party was complying with the agreements, but in the light of that, it is not. But let us return a little to the original initiative of the matter that brings us here, and in this respect I want to say that point 2 of the UPyD initiative we have assumed, we have incorporated it in the compromise amendment, but paragraph 1 has a point of interest. And we agree with the proponent that airport infrastructure, airports, play an important role in the transport system of a modern and urbanised society such as that existing in Euskadi, densely populated and very economically active. They are a fundamental tool for us to compete economically with other regions or countries. But we must say that the UPyD proposal shows us one thing and hides two, in our opinion at least. It shows us the goodness of shared management, the existence of shared airport management in Europe, which can be a good reference (we agree with that), but it forgets two issues. And one of them is that such management is possible because in those countries to which he refers, Germany and France, airports are managed individually, with their own autonomy, not as in Spain, which are managed in a network, centrally, which prevents us from applying a model such as the German or the French, which you propose. And the second question or the second point that is forgotten is that in the Spanish State thirty-five years ago an organic law was adopted that recognizes the competence in airport matters of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And we miss the forgetfulness of UPyD in the demand for law enforcement, which is often very repetitive in this rostrum. That is why we have tabled a complete amendment to the UPyD initiative in order to try to improve it, which includes, as I say, the transfer of powers in airport matters provided for in Article 10.32 of our Statute in Gernika, approved, as I say, thirty-five years ago and which today is still unfulfilled. UPyD, as I say, proposes to us a centralised airport management model (it does not say anything about it in its initiative), in which a single body, located in Madrid, decides the investments and sets the applicable rates at each airport and the commercial policy of them. In this sense, the allocation of slots for aircraft operations and for relations with different companies is of particular importance. Airport management has neither been carried out nor is it intended to be carried out with criteria that comply with the new political structure of the State, nor with a view to resolving transport needs. The current Spanish airport system is a powerful tool of political control and territorial policy practiced centrally by the State (the Ministry of Development and AENA, in particular), since by means of this network operation that it commented on, added to the policy of time slots and rates followed to date, it has served and serves, as we are proving today in Foronda, to define the role that each airport plays in the transport system and to prioritize them, which of them is considered to be politically priority compared to the others, diverting traffic, for example, as is the case today, or recently with the performance of the ministry at the airports of Burgos and Zaragoza. With regard to the suspension of the border inspection post, they are facilities, as was said, for the health control of products of animal origin. But, in addition to the H24 and the opening of the PIF, we demand that the Foronda airport be part of the goods to be transferred from the General Administration of the State for the exercise of airport competition. Because competition in airports is one of the outstanding transfers of assets, as I say, thirty-five years after its approval. For our group, full statutory development is a priority objective, it is essential for the well-being of citizens and the creation of economic wealth in Euskadi, which allows us to distribute it more adequately to our interests. We have signed a very simple and clear amendment among the main parliamentary groups, leaving aside the nuances on which we had some differences. But we have preferred, as I say, to work on the points that we have in common, and basically consists in demanding from the competent body the full operation of the airport, through the establishment of the H24 and the border inspection post, and also calling for compliance with the law. That is why I particularly ask the head of UPyD, who, if he is respectful of law enforcement, will have no inconvenience in subscribing to the compromise amendment that we have reached between Euskal Herria Bildu, the Socialist Group and the Euzko Abertzaleak Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u78	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Passing on the answering shift, Misto-UPyD. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u79	Yeah, all right. Thank you very much. I will then explain to you Mr Aldaiturriaga what UPyD's position is with regard to compliance with the Gernika Statute and compliance with current law and with all that has to do with the matter of outstanding transfers. I've explained it before, but I'll insist on it. Well, some things; not too many, because, in short, everything is said and the position of each political group is clear. It was said to be an ancient initiative, and it is true. That is why I have not devoted much effort to reviewing what that initiative was saying, but I have tried to raise this issue today. Therefore, although its literality may have become old, I believe that the issue is not, and therefore I believe it is important that this Parliament should take a stand on the issue and that the compromise that you have adopted could even be approved, beyond the fact that we do not share the second point, because we do not consider it to be a relevant issue in this area. And Txarli Prieto said that the outstanding are not the potentialities of Foronda, but the position of the Government of Spain. I believe that both are important, both the potentialities of Foronda and the position of the Spanish Government. That is to say, I wanted to make it clear that I am not defending an old infrastructure because it is located in Vitoria or in Euskadi, but what I wanted to say is that we are defending an infrastructure that is in perfect condition and that it is absolutely necessary to boost. That is to say, I have maintained a rational position: since it is the best airport, it obviously does not make sense the situation in which it is located. And that's why we defend this infrastructure. We do not defend this infrastructure because it is in Vitoria or because it is in Euskadi, but rather because we maintain a rational position. We defend it because it is a very good infrastructure. And we know that in both Euskadi and Spain there are very bad infrastructures that have been created for many years, and yet the various political parties have been defending them for simple political interests. In any case, it is true what has been said in relation to the People's Party, it has been repeated by all the spokespersons except Mr Carmelo Barrio: the main responsibility for the situation in which Foronda is located is the People's Party, it is the Government of Spain. It's obvious. There has been an absolute boycott for the purpose of burying Foronda, and above all for the purpose of artificially benefiting other airports, such as Zaragoza or Burgos. That has been the provision maintained by the Government of the People's Party. Nor do I believe that the Basque Government has done too much. Nor do I believe that the Basque Government has taken a very clear stand on this issue. I believe that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government could have done much more. When he is interested, in other matters he has moved much more, he has put more pressure, and he has put forward various initiatives when he considers them important, and in relation to this issue he has not done much, he has not put too much pressure on the Spanish Government. I say that the main responsibility lies with the Government of Spain, the PP, but I do not think that the Basque Government has done too much. Finally, in relation to Mr Carmelo Barrio, I believe that your speech does not believe either of you. He's tried to sell us some kind of positive reading, but it's far from reality. I don't think you believe it either. He says you've wanted to look at good news, he says it's moving forward, he's announced a series of steps that are meant to take... Finally, these are issues that can be "next you'll see what," etc. I believe that this position is out of reality, and above all it is contrary to it and contradicts all the actions that have been carried out during the last months and during the last years by the Government of Spain. Look, you in August 2014 in relation to the PIF, said at the press conference that "all efforts are being made" and that "the resolution of this issue is a matter of a few weeks". And Mr. Maroto, in his very genuine speech of February 2014, said that of "I feel like watering the party: it has just happened at this time, while we were in the debate, an agreement between the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party in Madrid on the Foronda airport". In short, words that have been carried away by the wind. We need facts, not words, and it is clear what the political position of the People's Party is: it is not interested in Foronda, it prefers to benefit other airports for simple electoral, party or political interests. And with regard to the compromise, and I am finished, I would be prepared to vote in favour of the first point, because it obviously contains something that we all defend except for Mr Carmelo Barrio. With regard to the transfer, let's see, we advocate law enforcement, but what are the pending transfers of the Gernika Statute is not something that can happen automatically. Such compliance with the law does not automatically occur. And in addition UPyD can choose, if it considers that it is good for society, why certain transfers do not occur, and therefore UPyD can also decide not to urge any government to negotiate any transfers, because we consider that in this particular case or in many others, therefore, it is not beneficial for society as a whole. Respect for law enforcement, of course. I respect that you ask the Government of Spain to negotiate on this transfer or others, too. But UPyD's position is to require only those transfers that are necessary, and not all the others. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u80	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Unite the EH team as representative. Ms. Beital, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u81	Yes, thank you. First of all, the other teams will say that later, but this group doesn't have a problem voting at points. We did not mention it, but since Mr. Maniro has said it a second time and we have not answered it before. and secondly, it is obvious that we have a majority of us in them, and it is obvious that those who do not share them have made an attempt to justify themselves, but I agree with Mr. Meniro himself that he does not believe himself. But I am of opinion that if any one should take the lesson from it, that is to say, from the discourse which Mr. Barrio has made, he is the Jestle, and is the Government, and I should like to make a request to him: Let Poppulous parties and Madrid have no further excuse for a deal we didn't think enough for them to defend, the Jelt Party, and the Euskalk, the Eukolk, and the Eukok, firm H24, because that agreement didn't stand for it: "By order, according to opportunity... "Yes, that speech which does not mean anything to PP. And I think he's been trying that way with Mr. Barrio's speech today. We also said that the agreement of November 24 wasn't enough. I think, if we defend it, the pressure must really be made for it; and when we find the agreements, it is impossible to look for alliances among the institutions, I have said that the agreement itself is not many ends, and I repeat again that it is that which is received in the treaty. And therefore I think that the discourse which Mr. Barriius made today ought to show us this, that in order to make an agreement it must be related to those two necessary and necessary elements for the Fornons, that is to say, the necessity of 24-hour operation, and of the service of PIF, which we have seen during these months, in the course of these months, that this agreement has not been allowed to advance in those two principles which were the fundamentals: To begin the PIF service, others, it seems, must prove that it is necessary for Mr. Barrio to defend it here. And, moreover, he has the courage to say that Foronda has fortunately taken a step in this way. Well, let's say straight: Foronda has taken her strides, although the Popular Party and the Spanish Government have placed the obstacles one after the other. But he has shown us the ability to move forward. But be careful, he has also shown the limit: The Zaragoza, on the other hand, has been able to double its advance and double its cargo in a panorama, which, in itself, was becoming meandering in general; while Foronda, on account of these bounds of operation, could not have developed or advanced as such. And if he does not see the real obstacle there, it is because he does not really defend the Theonians, and from this he endeavors to conceal his position. So again, I repeat, the potential, the Foronda has options, but they will not be present without a deadline if the obstacles are brought before him, and what he really requires is that, though later, any other plan will be made, he will be on the move in 24 hours. And the improvement he made has not been the result of this plan, and even if this plan is there, it is something that has succeeded in the difficulties. So obviously the deal wasn't enough. It is evident that the agreement is here to-day placed on these two grounds, which are the least necessary, necessary, necessary, necessary, and necessary to Forondas to advance; and we all think, in the care every one has, in the established institutions, and in the other steps, where we can defend it. For, when these clear words have become vaguer, the agreement has been made, but Foronda is still the same. And I think that, amongst those we are seeking consent, it is not the end to be in the same state a year hence. Let us, then, keep what we have here agreed, and in other treaties. Let us not flatter our words, lest, for some time or other, we should be at a loss for our temporary or informal interests, or for some other occasion, we should be able to support this request, as it were, a majority, except PP, in which we are all in it, and have a great majority sufficient strength. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. The Socialist Basque must not speak a word... Mr. Barrio, who represents the Potion of Basque Groups, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Maneiro, I was saying at first that it coincided with many of the assertions of the initial spirit of the non-law proposition that you put forward. And my speech... He used to say, "You don't believe your speech." Of course I believe it! I also believe that because they are objective facts. Because I have told you about an interinstitutional agreement, an agreement between the Basque Government and the Foral de Álava, with the City Council of Vitoria and with the Chamber of Commerce of Vitoria for a number of issues. Black on white, there they are, and they all talk about what we all talk about. They all talk about the PIF, they all talk about the twenty-four hours, they all talk about passengers, they all talk about cargo operations and their development, and about seeking synergies and joint action. And I do believe it, because it is. Because I believe the agreements and because I try, from this House, as a parliamentarian, to push them among the institutions to seek... What I believe is that some are comfortable in the defeatist discourse, aggravation. Some I believe that they want – I do not say this for you, Mr. Maneiro – indeed, for Foronda to go wrong. Some want Foronda to go wrong, because some have never done anything for Foronda. The Basque Nationalist Party and its governments, never, nothing. Nothing. Neither does the Socialist Party, ever. That is, the Nationalist Party was unable, when negotiating Zapatero's budgets, to enter a game. And the Socialist Party destroyed AENA, broke it. Then, logically, he had to recover. But those are the real issues. Indeed, I wanted to be positive, of course, for that was my first intervention. But when there is a nasty management of AENA and then a government has to arrive and it has to fix the hole and the disguised one, then it goes and does. And sometimes it's complicated, but there's an efficiency plan in Foronda, an efficiency plan that has yielded results, and you know it. And it has yielded results. Now we must continue to develop. And in addition to an AENA efficiency plan you also have a marketing plan, and everyone knows it, in relation to Foronda. Nobody makes a marketing plan for something that they want to close or with what they want to end! No, the other way around! He wants to look for synergies, impulses. Indeed, the clear governments that need to speak, and we can also urge the Government of Spain to do more, and we do, and the Alaves institutions do in that regard! Well, the easy resource is to throw at the People's Party, but I think the good thing is that we are able to work, to look for agreements like the one that I have put into value before, and that you also support those agreements, not criticise them from the root, but rather seek in them the seed of what it is to continue working and to continue advancing. I think that's the point, isn't it? In other words, in the state's budgets in its day the Basque Nationalist Party is also attacking... What do you mean, the Basque Government can't be involved? Much more can be involved! Much more your Department of Economic Promotion, your business interlocution capabilities... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Of course you can get involved, and much more, and you've never done it! And you have never done so, Mr. Aldaiturriaga, since the government. Last time, due to the political pressure also from the Alaves institutions, the Basque Government had to sign the agreement, fortunately, but never before. You preferred to put money in Epsilon and Hiriko than in Foronda into state budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u84	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u85	With your permission, Mrs. President, I'll take her off the seat. Well, let's see, it's not my style, I'm not in favour of going into discussion with the political groups with which we have signed an amendment, going into discussion on issues that do not appear in it and on certain political behaviors, and in this regard I want to respond so much to the UPyD group, although obviously not the case, because it has not signed the amendment, but that of Euskal Herria Bildu, saying that the Basque Nationalist group had no interest in this matter. That's not even close to reality. The Basque Nationalist Party where it has always been able to work for the empowerment of Foronda airport, and I have to tell you that in the last year... Well, the first thing to say, and this also applies to the People's Party, is that it is a decision on the operation of the airport that must be made by the holder of the airport, both in infrastructure and in management. And in this case it agrees that it is the State Administration, through the Ministry of Development and AENA. That is why we are calling for the transfer of airport management, because when we are the owners of the infrastructure or its management we will be able to make decisions and we will be able to respond politically, the Basque Government will be able to respond politically on this matter. But he told them that in the last year in the Congress of Deputies the Basque Nationalist group has presented three initiatives that have been systematically rejected. The last one in November last year, from the general budgets of the State, which called for the creation of an item in the amount of 7 million euros for the restoration of the H24. An amendment which, well, has been rejected, as everyone knows. I therefore believe that it is absolutely unfair to blame the Basque Nationalist Party for not being involved in this matter. And basically to say that it is precisely in Congress and in the Senate that the People's Group boycotts these kinds of initiatives. And nothing more from us. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u86	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote for Mistto-UPyD, the original text of another proposal. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 1, 62; white, 0; abstainments, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u87	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next up, the Basque Socialists, the EH Collect and the Eubertians have signed the medium correction... Dots? Yeah? Do we vote for it? Okay. We'll vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 73; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u88	The first point is unanimously accepted. We'll vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 62; oppositions 11. White, 0; Absences.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u89	The second point has also been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "Euscal Socialists made the same billing proposal as the UCI, with the intention of dedicating the condemned suicide on the change of the Code. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The Basque Socialist has the word of Mrs. Gallastegui, representing the group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u90	All right. Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, lehendakari. It does not seem, it does not seem that we like to talk about death high, but death, especially the right to die decently, is part of the agenda of matters to be resolved. That is why we have come today to talk about this, and above all we have come to talk about individual freedom, about the most intimate freedom. And the Socialists, ladies and gentlemen, we have always believed in the freedom of every person, regardless of whether he has limited his autonomy to exercise it. This is not an easy debate. It is a complicated debate, we know, but no more complicated than the rest of the social debates that we have had in the last three decades, concerning individual, personal, intimate decisions that began to decriminalise and ended up being guaranteed as rights. I'm talking about freedom about motherhood, I'm talking about freedom about marriage and its dissolution, I'm talking about freedom about each other's sexual choice. Decisions, ladies and gentlemen, that not without effort and not without struggle have become part of the catalogue of rights and freedoms of decent societies. Today we want to open a path towards the freedom to decide on death itself, without that decision being punished when the cooperation of a third party is necessary for the exercise, for the execution of that decision. Our initiative is based on a finding. We are dealing in this Parliament with a proposal for a law on dignified death in Bildu, and we are dealing with it because all groups are voting in favour of doing so. This law, as you know, seeks to establish a specific regulation on the rights of persons before the process of death, which already exists in other communities, such as Andalusia or Navarre, but from our point of view it does not address the core of this matter, it does not address the core of the issue, it does not address the mother of the lamb of this matter, which is nothing other than the possibility of exercising the individual right of each person to determine all the circumstances that must occur in order to achieve a dignified death, to obtain his availability on his life and on his own death, and also, ladies and gentlemen, when a person, when that person may have an impediment of any kind to independently execute the decision to end an irreparable mental or physical suffering. But also, ladies and gentlemen, you know that if we come to agree in this Parliament (I hope so) a normative text that does, that does address what we think is necessary to ensure people's availability of their own life, that inalienable existential expression, we would have an insurmountable obstacle, which is nothing other than article 143 of the Criminal Code. With meridian clarity, we have no competence to reform the Penal Code, which, as you know, is an organic law, and without that modification we cannot guarantee that someone can cooperate with someone, if necessary, in order to put an end to that suffering, in the exercise of that free and personal decision of the affected person. This reflection does not come out of nowhere, it does not come out as infused science, it does not come out by spontaneous generation. We have seen it here in this Parliament, and we have heard it from many, many... I don't know if many, but some penalists. And we have promoted this non-legislative proposal with this orientation: that the Basque Parliament urge the Government of Spain to remove the blindfold and take the first steps to address in an open, clear, non-euphemist manner the need to guarantee this last act of exercising individual freedom. And we have done so, ladies and gentlemen, with the same impetus with which we did it already in 1995, with that so-called negative constitution, with the Civil Code of Democracy that we Socialists promote, in order to guarantee, in addition to this principle of freedom, legal certainty in the free decision-making of citizens, in the management of their personal situations of suffering. That reform of the Penal Code of 95 already gave legal certainty to the clinical practices mitigating the suffering that were being carried out with the terminally ill, and on which some, then and now, were sowing the permanent threat to health professionals. Twenty years have passed from that, and we believe that this is the time: we believe that we should open this debate in its entirety, and complete what was left out in the year 95. We Basque Socialists, when we decided to register the initiative we are debating today, were aware of all the difficulties, but I have to say that we have found that this Parliament is most receptive to our reflection, and, although it may seem that we are short today, that what we approve today is a mere declaration of intent, does not seem to be a minor matter: we tackle without caps what we want to tackle but cannot resolve from our own powers; we establish a common position, we share the need to reform the laws to make possible that last act of exercising individual freedom when it cannot be exercised autonomously. The debate, ladies and gentlemen, has been in society for a long time, in that society which, by the way, is often ahead of political action. The law is cautious, but I think we are not wrong when we say that there is a social demand and an ethical consensus in favour of recognizing availability on one's own life. Politics, ladies and gentlemen, is obliged to attend to and listen to the pulse, the heartbeat of the citizenry, and that is evident proof and symptom of the good health of democratic institutions. We believe we have to deal with it, we believe we have to deal with it, and we believe that we can reach a good consensus. And if that is the case, beyond the limited contribution that we make from this Parliament, we will be truly guaranteeing dignified death in every case. All the parliamentary groups in this House have been in favour of dealing with the law here, and we hope that all groups will also be in favour of dealing with this issue in its entirety. For the moment, let us say loud and clear that this Parliament does not want anyone to be punished because everyone is guaranteed the ultimate exercise of freedom of his life. And I only have to thank the amending groups for their willingness to agree, and, of course, I would like to ask the non-amending groups for their support and for our thanks to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Collect Group. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u92	I left where I left off. We have already discussed the aided suicide and eucanasia we are discussing in the law of worthy death, and therefore we do not understand it, for it is not the first time that we do not understand it, but we hope that the latter is the last to be brought by the Social Party to non-commissions which are not lawful discussions. We do not understand how it is that we bring it into the transmitration of a law, by other undertakings, which are much more simple in the process of educating, which are not connected with it, in other areas. Therefore, seeing your interest in giving steps about these matters, as you show, by proposals which are not lawful (e.g., by aiding suicide, by contemplation of a worthy death), we propose that these matters should be placed on the table also in the course of the law, and that we shall be glad to agree with them all, and at least that we are open to agreements to make a real progress. Because what we've seen is that you've been in the Spanish Government, you've had a direct competition in this matter of initiative, you've had the ability to be initiated into it, you've had the chance to change the punishment code, you've had the chance to do the same thing about the aided suicide, but we haven't seen any initiative in this sense from the Social Party. And I want to remember now that you've recently agreed to change the Criminal Code with Mr. Rajoy, and that you've had the opportunity to enter it, and also that the Popular Party is highly qualified to change several laws in the reforming or change of a law, right? But, well, it's a positive thing to discuss here today, and we hope to change things from now on, that there is a real will and that we are really traversing this law of legislation, and to make it a law, and to make it a law, even if we don't have our competition here, this Parliament, receiving eustanasia in the law, to make a way and to confess to the Spanish state, to make our way here. Lastly, disputes are always scandalous, and if there is no dispute, we do not proceed, and therefore welcome to disputes. And we'll give the way, and we'll be ready to discuss it not only, but even to agree, as we have done today, with the rights of people who feel engaged to the Basque People, because they feel bound, and because we're responsible for the rights we have to make to them, even at the end of our lives. I mean, we proclaim life, living life with quality, with dignity, why not end life? Why not, as far as possible, guarantee this freedom even at the end of life? Because it's not always possible, but we think that if we're here to do that, we're going to open up the road. Tell me, that we plan to go further than our correction, that the Parliament should carry from us a proposition of impunity, which is known as a benefit to suicide in the court of Spain, as in the case of the court of Spain, as in the case of the case of the law of the Parliament, as in the case of the case of the case of the punishment of suicide, as in the case of Trebinu and so many other matters, we should have another consistency. It seemed to us, strictly speaking, to call the Spanish Government in nothingness, to see what the position of the Spanish Government is, that it is not too great a career, but it is true, that we have seen, from the parties we have come to agree with, an engagement in order to make a path in this direction; and seeing this, it seems to us that the agreement today, the consent, will be positive. At length, because it is important to make this way with as great force as possible, we think the agreement to-day will certainly be useful, and above all it will be useful to get the law we have in hand. Our party also proposed to receive initiation from this parliament to communicate with the parliaments of the other Autonomies, and to make an association there. And to receive this also in agreement seems to us essential. We see there with other autonomys, that we share the end of it with other communities, and that others share our end with us; so that it may be a fine chance to justify suicide in the Spanish government, in order to make an example of emancipation of emancipation? And we think opening that opportunity is important. And whether by the agreement and agreement of to-day, as I have said before, we make the law forward, to make as many laws as possible, to conclude the end of our lives in a worthy and material manner, to take our own decisions at liberty; and if we have not the capacity to open other ways, to guarantee that right. Finally, what we're planning is, in short, just to guarantee our rights. And let it be clear that this is not against anyone, it is not a proposition against anyone, it does not violate the rights of others, but we shall offer a frame, a frame, a legal frame, an opportunity, and within that choice every person will be autonomous, every man will be free, and the proper decision will be in his own judgment. Then the rights will be secured, the rights of all, not as they are now, but also for everyone. And we think it's important that we place ourselves in the middle of the human being, to place the patient in the centre, to be autonomous people, and even to be so at the end of life. And from us, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians represent the team. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. President, members of the legislature, good afternoon to all of you. As has been said, there is a proposition of the law in this affair, and we have spent months listening and examining the occurrences of the experts passing by in the text of which we have been presented. When we found out that this other law was being introduced, we didn't see it right, neither did we. Why? Now, as I have said, we were already considering the proposition of the law on the legislature, and working on it; and therefore we thought that things were progressing. It is true, however, that if we have received the proposal of the law which we are working on in this legislature, we may meet with the competition. And what are these boundaries? As has been said, the articles about eucanasia and aid suicide. Thus it is, that other Law, to require the removal of the bounds of the Law, which we hope to accept in this Common-wealth. The intention of the groups is clear at this time, and an important degree of agreement, which, we believe, is remarkable and positive. We haven't reached the time to present corrections to the law proposal. Still... Basque is a very advanced and open society... I'm sorry, I made a mistake, even if that's true, I'll continue... As I have said, though the time for correction has not yet come, our party has a foundation which will follow the course of the line, and this is the only one we introduced to, and we have signed the middle term with the Socialist Group and EH Collector. You have often heard us say that our party is impelled by human principles, or that this government aims at the person. And in accordance with this, we can no longer look aside as long as our society does a specific request. We cannot, as I have said, abandon the wants of persons who may be in a state of life, and who are more and more esteemed. As I said before, Basque is a very advanced and open society. He has the ability to face and make decisions in all such situations. In this sense, as the democratic, manifold party of the Euplic Party is ready to allow the motions to advance, so far as it is a member of the community's life, without confession, and a humanist, and to improve the quality of men, we find it necessary and proper to establish the attitude of all those matters which all the members of the Basque community are going to touch, in order to secure proper attention from the administration for the whole process of life, by providing criteria and conditions. We could, therefore, dig much deeper on all this, but we will leave these deeps to the corrections of the law proposition, which are not based on the suicide which is only supported, and which are cultivated by several distinct areas which may be adapted to the end of life.... We understand, as I was saying, from this point of view, that if there were certain states (for instance, a person of very great age, who, being a serious disease, does not answer incurable and special treatments, is a patient who may have a short hope of living in time, capable of incurable, and of degenerative, and of causing severe and difficult consequences) in these cases, it is necessary to respect the autonomy of the person, to provide for his dignity and will, to receive information of endurance, to be treated against other pains, and to receive paltitive treatments, to indicate the right of the will in all the preceding cases of the will, and to secure the will in all cases of the legal administration, and to be able to finish it in all his life. We must establish principles to guarantee all this, and if this is so, it is necessary for us to change those who determine penal codes on this subject. That is why we ask the Government of Spain to amend the legislation related to assisted suicide and euthanasia, in order to decriminalize the type contained in article 143 of the Criminal Code, without frivolities, seeking consensus, being very aware of the reality that society demands of us. We are aware that different aspects have led to an increase in life expectancy, resulting in an ageing population and an increase in chronic and irreversible diseases. The type of health care has also changed, and, in the face of a model of medical-disease relationship of a paternalistic nature, characterized by a total protagonistism of the healthcare professional, a model of shared responsibility has gradually been opened up, in which the sick person participates more and more in the decision-making process of healing, treatment or ending life. We are witnessing a greater awareness and consideration of the needs of people at the end of life, that is, of any very elderly person or one who has been diagnosed with some certainty with an advanced, incurable, progressive suffering that does not respond to specific treatments and that has a limited life expectancy over time. And also the needs of those suffering from incurable, degenerative, very painful or severely debilitating diseases. All this set of background and circumstances provide a good opportunity to reflect on the ethical dimensions of the idea of dignified death, what rights people have in the last stage of their lives, and what the obligations of public administrations and the health system are for them, as well as to provide greater legal certainty to patients, family members and professionals when applying their contents, both in daily life and in health practice. And in order to carry this thing forward, it is necessary to change the penal code, as we have said, and that is why we have signed this medium. In conclusion, I want to thank the representatives of EH Collector and Socialist Group for their integrity in making this medium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u96	jauna: Yes, thank you. Soon. The Socialist Group's justification for presenting this initiative is that in some of the appearances that have occurred on the occasion of the proposed law of EH Bildu it has been concluded that, while the aid to suicide is collected as a crime and penalized in the Criminal Code, it will be of no use to what is done in this Parliament. That is why the amendment of the Criminal Code is proposed through this initiative. And that's fine with us. We agree with the proposal and we agree with the amendment of the Criminal Code to decriminalise assisted suicide, and I will therefore vote in favour of the compromise. We did not amend it because we agreed with the original proposal, which also seemed to us to be good. It is true, as has been said, that before the Socialist Group or the Socialist Party did not propose it when it could, but, finally, I believe that we must look forward. At least now the Socialist Party of Euskadi proposes it, and we are celebrating it. Resolution 197 of the second UPyD Congress of November 2013 states: "We propose to move forward in the legal regulation of the right to dignified death, that is, to arrange the end of one's life without further suffering, or euthanasia, in situations where the person concerned, fully conscious and informed, cannot decide and act on his own as a result of any physical impediment, requiring the help of health professionals to end unbearable suffering. "The regulation of this right must take into account the maximum legal protection of the applicant and of the professional willing to assist him, on the basis that the application must be expressed and repeated, with full information and coincidence of the person concerned and of the health personnel". That's what UPyD supports. UPyD is therefore clearly in favour of what is proposed in this initiative. And a servant, personally, the truth is that he has no doubt about the issue: I am a strong advocate of what is being proposed. I would sum it up in a sentence that is contained in the ruling of the Canadian Supreme Court that legalized assisted suicide: "The right to life should not be transformed into an obligation to live". And in another phrase that is a kind of maximum of groups and people defending sedation in the final processes of life: "Sleep before you die so you don't suffer." Or in another one by Fernando Savater, who is also more caught by the hair but who I like very much: "The question is not whether there is life after death, but that there is life before". In short, for these and many other reasons which you have perfectly expressed in your long speeches, I will vote in favour of the compromise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u97	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u98	Thank you, Madam President, and very shortly. Mrs Gallastegui, you are a good partner, I think you are a good friend, you are a good lawyer, you are a skilled parliamentarian, but you must have some difficulty in living this debate where it fits. Doesn't your parliamentary group listen to you in Congress or in the Senate, or your party? Have you not been able to convince them that the Penal Code needs urgent reform? Or, I don't know, everyone else also has a parliamentary group in Congress and in the Senate: the Socialist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party, Bildu... Reform of the Criminal Code, a typical subject of books, congresses or parliamentary chambers, reform of the article of a law, with a parliamentary group, and powerful parliamentary groups, with the capacity to present initiatives and to sustain themselves and to train themselves. That's why I'm a little surprised. We are considering a proposal for a law on the final process of life in this Parliament, and I believe that this proposal is not a law to distort that debate a little bit. We are going to focus on working in this area of parliamentary action on a subject that we can regulate. Let's work it out. And I think that's our priority, or where we have to focus. Logically, I am not going to enter – I think it has not been done – into the bottom of the issue (well, some have already entered in a more detailed way), but into the bottom of what assisted suicide is, euthanasia... I'm not going into that. I don't know, I understand that... Isn't this debate better where it belongs? Isn't it better that you promote him where he belongs? Also right there, where you can change the laws, with a debate besides, that many have spoken, a responsible debate, calm, a legal debate, scientific, medical... Do you believe that these issues will be legally defined as a blow of parliamentary voluntarism? I do not think so, because there are precisely other instruments to ensure that it is not parliamentary voluntarism, but rather that it is parliamentary debate, parliamentary procedure and legislative reform. Besides, it's a little distorting, mixing. We are considering a proposal for a law, I do not know, that we are in a period of practically amendments. Well, there are still a few appearances, if I may recall, but we are already studying it, and you are proposing a debate, a reform that I could have taken many months, years the same. However, I do not know how to affect or link the two issues in this debate. I believe that we have focused, we can focus on the proposed law that we are studying, which we have admitted to the process. We did not consider it necessary, but we are actually working on it, because I believe that the issues that were raised were already regulated in one way or another by our health, health or other regulations, or civil. In that sense, I think we could understand that it was regulated, but good. I mean, you have to think that we can all ask in any House to change the legality that depends on another, but can't you do better in situ, with this calm debate? If your own colleagues, when they have discussed this type of debate in the Congress of Deputies, have spoken of calm debate, calm debate, which must be deepened! Well, you say this debate has been in society for a long time. It's true. A few years ago (some already, in 2008) a campaign to decriminalize assisted suicide began. Who then ruled? The Socialist Party! What did he do? Nothing. In 2009 there was an initiative in Congress on this issue, and the PSOE also opposed the decriminalization of euthanasia. Discussions are replicated in 2012, and the PSOE is also opposed to the consideration of these initiatives. There's the key. That is where this debate resides. If you have changed in that sense of position, take it where it corresponds, where it will also have effectiveness that change. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not going to support this initiative. Take her, please, to Congress or the Senate. Deepen up there in those keys to reforming a law to which you have referred, which is the Penal Code. There you can modify, if you get enough majorities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u99	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u100	Thank you, President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. Well, Mrs Ubera, you were talking to me about why we had introduced this minor legislative initiative, and you came to say that it seemed absurd, when we could actually do something else; that this does not seem to have enough entity to be able to have a consistency from the parliamentary point of view. Well, I have to disagree with that appreciation. I have to say, because I do believe that it has become very clear, and I believe that in the end you have also understood it, and you have understood all the other parliamentary groups that voted in favour of this initiative, that we have the problem, we have the insurmountable obstacle of an article of an organic law in which we cannot get involved, which is in this case the Penal Code, which will prevent us from applying any law that we can reach agreement in this Parliament on dignified death and euthanasia. And if we make a great law, that solves people's lives, that solves people's willingness to decide how they want to die, but it turns out that each and every one of us who exercises that right goes to the fast track, then we have a problem. We have a very serious problem. And we have no competence, as we already know. It therefore seems reasonable that this Parliament should urge the Government of Spain, as on so many other occasions, Mr Barrio, because this is the prerogative of the parliaments... They can urge the Government of Spain. They will have the regulatory capacity they have, but they can urge, and indeed urge. You were also planning, Mrs Ubera, in your full amendment to the original proposal, that we should finally take a legislative initiative to promote this reform before the Spanish courts. We do not think it a bad option, but you and I have already talked about this matter, and you know perfectly well as I do that the times at the present time, as is the current legislature, were not going to allow us to do a processing. What I do say to you, and I say to the rest of the groups in this House – which, by the way, all have representation in General Courts, in Congress and in Senate – is that in the next legislature, which we will be ruling, we will reach out to each and every one of you to fulfill what you are now saying you want to fulfill. And, in that sense, of course, the approach will be to weave quilts, weave complicitys, forge agreements above all to guarantee in the end what we have come to ask here. And it is that everyone, when they have to die, does so with dignity, and that they can dispose of that existential moment in an absolute way. Mr. Barrio told me that things must be done where they belong. Indeed, there we will do so too, and we have been doing so. We have been doing it, and in fact it is very likely (it is very likely) that it will be resubmitted shortly. Well, I also say that in the next legislature we will probably, as I say, reach out to them to help us, to help us improve people's lives, to reach out to that hand that has not existed anywhere in four years. Because, ultimately, we could have filled the government's inaction in seeking and making proposals that would improve citizens' lives, but it was absolutely impossible. Everyone – because you also have representation in the Congress – could have started talks to amend article 143 of the Penal Code at the Spanish Congress. Perfectly. They have representation there. You have representation, and in fact that's there. That is to say, what is basically about, ladies and gentlemen, is to put this agreement into practice. We are taking an important step, and insofar as we have the capacity to demand from the Spanish Government that the batteries be put in place to see how it improves the lives of citizens, how it establishes legislative and regulatory initiatives that will improve the lives of citizens, and not that it continue to do what it has done so far, which is to establish laws that involve the greatest and most absolute opposition on the part of the rest of the parliamentary groups... When that happens, we, as I say and repeat, will be waiting for you waiting with our hands open, with our notebooks open, to see how we manage all that. And that's what I'm putting you on, Mrs. Ubera. And I also place on everyone that, regardless of what happens next, we have before us a law that we can take a very important, very important turn, and overcome in a –reiter – important way the improvement of the lives of all people, which is ultimately for what we are here for.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u102	Mrs. Gallaustegui, I feel like you can't put your hand in the Code of Punishment. I don't know what your party is doing in Madrid, can't you? It seems very relative to me to see what Mr. Sánchez has done with Rajoy: You change whatever you like, and that's clear, so you can disguise it as you like, but that's the reality, and it's the law of punishment that changes immediately when you want to and when you have political will. And what's a problem here is that we're in the Spanish state, it's a burden for us, that's the real problem. And we have a problem with the Spanish Government. If we started talking about the Code, we'd be talking about it for a long time, but today it's not a discussion, but I'll concentrate on helping suicide and eucanasia. So I think there's a certain hypocrisy here and we should all be able to play with greater honesty. We see what's in the Spanish Government, we see. We see the attitude of the Spanish State, but we can't always wait and always watch Madrid. Our object is to guarantee the rights of our people, even at the end of our lives, to end our lives as worthy as possible, to be of the highest quality, and to guarantee at the end of our lives that right of decision which we all have in all our lives. And we think... but it is true that a legal agreement would be much more significant, that this Parliament would have a body to go to court with a proposal, asking for a change of the Code, and asking for the assistance of suicide, and the dedication of the eulogy we are talking about. That's right, and it's clear that we can't keep looking at Madrid and it's clear that we have to make our decisions here and we have to make our own way. And Madrid will see whether he is determined to put them all to prison or whether he has to go on this way, because now there are some who find themselves in this position of danger, a majority of Basque citizens, who are imprisoned for any reason. This is not a democracy, it's not serious. Then we think in this case... Let us then take a qualitative step, to give and to be bold, and to be bold, and to be brave; and we may lead an alliance with other communities, because they have some, and are ready to follow the way, because they share the end, and there is time. 21st we live in the century, though sometimes we seem to live in the Middle Ages.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians represent the team. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u104	Thank you, Mr. President. With your permission, I'll take it very short from the seat. Mr Barrio, we are aware that it is a matter that corresponds to another forum, to another place or to another time, and we said it at the time, but a non-law proposal has been put forward by a group and we have done nothing but position ourselves, leading to a compromise that will soon be adopted. Leaving aside the competition debate, we, our group, would like to appeal to responsibility, and we repeat that it is our obligation to provide greater legal certainty to patients, family members and professionals when applying its contents, both in daily life and at the end of it and in health practice. And we are working on it, from the utmost respect and rigour. Nada más, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Misto-UPyD. She doesn't have to say a word... Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u106	Thank you, President. With your permission, from the seat. Look, I think we're frivolating a little bit the value of laws and their reforms in relation to the processing of these non-law propositions or the use of them for that. I mean, let's see, let's focus on our proposed law, which we have in the House, or, if not, that it withdraws pending the reform of the Penal Code. Because, if not, we are having a feeling that we are going to carry out a sterile reform, a reform without will. And that's often the worst, the spirit of the laws. If we do it this way... I believe that, in that sense, that is why, as we are talking about a matter of time, we are going to focus on our own. And, of course, I invite Mrs Gallastegui to convince her parliamentary group in Congress and in the Senate to start taking the steps, with the support of others, in this course of reform. It is that in March 2012 the Congress of Deputies rejected the regulation of euthanasia, with the vote against the People's Party and the Socialist Party to an initiative of the Plural Left to promote an organic law on the availability of life itself. In other words, the information of the Congress of Deputies speaks of the position of the People's Group, and in similar terms was referred to the socialist deputy Julio Villarrubia, who recalled, however, how the previous one, such... , "defend that the end of life takes place without pain and with the full right to the will of the people", but not to speak of euthanasia. It's just, of course, it has to be clarified! And, as the Socialist Party has to clarify in this matter, let it be clarified where it has confused, where it is confused. But let us not be confused here with initiatives that I believe are sterile for the purpose of legislative reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u107	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists, the EH Collectors and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters of 63; opponents of the contrary, 9; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-04.u108	So it's been accepted to the middle of the line correction. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two and forty-two in the afternoon.
