ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u0	One theme: "The full corrections proposed to the bill of law that the General Prevégé of Euscal Autonomia Er-Hornia supports. The discussion and the vote. The President has a promise to make the stand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I introduce the budget project that was carved for the show in New York 2016. This is an important discussion. Time to report priority and initiative. The state of economics and finances is a preponderating priority and initiative, but they are directed to re-establish the present of the Basque society, and even to resist the future necessities of the Basques. Two months ago, we had a discussion about the general policy. We had a chance to discuss the view of our country and to appreciate the action of the government. I told you about fun priorities and the budget we're presenting today is the reflection of the main project and axis we've got. We want to continue helping this country build the future we want. We will continue with the action of the government, with the action based on realism, prudence, sensibility, and need of the citizens. In these years of economic and social crisis, we have established clear priorities. Number one. To guarantee basic public services and social policies. Politics for education, health, and social armor. Person is our object. Number two. Politics in order to restore economics, and in favor of employment. Our attention is simple; we would fain help to extend the way of employment; especially amongst the younger, and among the weaker professions of industry. Third. To help us build the economic and social future we want for Basques. These are our priorities: to invest in manufacturing politics, innovation, in order to continue to promote the Basque Country and to modernize the country. Two months ago we held the general policy debate. We were able to contrast our vision of the country and value the action of the Government. The draft Budgets we are presenting reflect our project and fundamental axes for 2016. The Governing Council approved the preliminary draft budget on 27 October; it was registered in this Parliament three days later. It has been put forward in committee and we are presenting it to this House today. In this period, aware of the parliamentary position of the Government and the group that supports it, we have worked to generate the consensus and the necessary agreement that will allow us to move the budget forward. I stress the predisposition to dialogue and to the agreement of the Basque Socialist Party. Together with the Basque Nationalist Party's Euzko Abertzaleak group, they have contrasted priorities, discussed and agreed amendments to improve the project and generate sufficient support. Consensus and approval of a budget may be for the third consecutive year, showing shared responsibility. It is also a matter of having agreed on the Employment and Economic Recovery Plan; fiscal reform and the Anti-Fraud Plan; and strengthening a shared institutional vision on the challenges of modernizing the country. Stability and confidence are essential assets to maintain Euskadi's pace of recovery and to ensure growth- and employment-oriented investment, innovation, industry and internationalisation policies. We have experienced difficult years of collective effort; years of guaranteeing the conditions of Euskadi, sustaining public services and caring for people without leaving anyone behind. Now we can overcome them. The current situation and positive developments in the country allow us to look more confidently into the future. These budgets want to help leave the crisis in the past and concentrate all our efforts on building a new future of more growth and more quality jobs. This presentation will rotate over three axes: The macroeconomic context in which we find ourselves and the economic and financial context to which the Government has attached itself. Strategic priorities of the Government for the budget and the objectives it aims to achieve in 2016. And budget features for each department. First. Macroeconomic and economic-financial context. Global economic activity is growing to 3.1 per cent with uneven behaviour between advanced economies and developing countries. Advanced economies are favoured by low oil prices, favourable financing conditions and improved labour market. The European Union continues to grow by 1.9%, the best result in the last four years. The Basque economy grew by 3% in the third quarter. It involves an acceleration of the pace of progress and places the rate of variation at the highest value since the end of 2007. It should be noted that this growth has been driven by industry with 3.2% and services with 3.1%. The good progress of the Basque economy has fostered net job creation. In the third quarter, the annual change in employment was 1.8%. The OECD has updated the forecasts for the world gross domestic product downwards and forecasts 3.6% in 2016. The biggest risks are slowing growth in China, rising interest rates in the United States and geopolitical tensions, in particular the threat of jihadist terrorism. In this context of uncertainty, we maintain the growth forecast of 2.7% for this year, and for 2016 we maintain 2.5%. This leads to an estimated employment creation of 1.8% this year and 1.7% next year, in terms of full-time jobs. Gradually, we will recover the lost job for the past seven years. Our attitude remains prudent. We keep it before the lowest, or at the possible lower intensity of the oil squandering effect, the depreciation of the euro against the dollar and the need to recover the investment. The draft Budgets that we are debating today amount to 10,933 million euros. The contribution of the foreign parliaments goes from 8,738 million this year, to 9,103 million for the financial year 2016. This volume accounts for 83% of the revenue of the Basque Government. It should be noted that the deficit target set by the European Union for 2016 is 0,3 % of gross domestic product. That is, four tenths less than that fixed for this year, 0.7 %. This fact causes the net borrowing capacity to be also lower. At this point, I stress the value of the Economic Concert and the principle of fiscal co-responsibility between the Basque administrations. It is the main instrument for social cohesion and the guarantee of public policies in the Basque Country. A basic principle of the Basque Government is budgetary stability, deficit control and financial sustainability. A principle of responsibility that we will continue to make compatible with ensuring essential services, maintaining public employment, avoiding the creation of new entities and public societies, and directing investments to the promotion of economic cycle change and the creation of quality jobs. Second. Strategic priorities of the Government and objectives for 2016. The Basque Government's strategic framework is in line with the Europe 2020 strategy, aimed at an intelligent, sustainable and inclusive economy. The priorities of the 2016 Budget reinforce the dual mission set by the Basque Government since the beginning of the legislature: First. Commitment to people, preserving the Basque model of social cohesion made up of essential services and services: health, education and social protection policies. Three out of four of the Government's euros correspond to social expenditure. We highlight our priorities in this area: the health system involving patient empowerment, an equitable, inclusive and comprehensive education system, a guarantee of social assistance for the most disadvantaged, support for families and the promotion of birth, a social character of housing policy, a guarantee of effective equality, a Basque language as a living language for coexistence, a culture essential to human development. Second. Economic recovery and employment, with policies to support our productive fabric and the promotion of research, development and innovation. The commitment to boost growth implies the investment effort. We increased the number of previous years to 1,214 million euros of public investment for the financial year 2016. In the area of growth and employment, the central priorities are: boosting active employment policies; structural competitiveness policies: science and innovation for smart specialization, supporting industry, advanced manufacturing and tractor projects, promoting entrepreneurship, encouraging the internationalisation of small and medium-sized enterprises; reactivation policy: financing of the productive sector, inter-company cooperation, development of the primary sector, trade as a driving force, tourism and external projection. In the area of development sustainability: territorial planning and urban planning, sustainable energy policy, transport policy for improved mobility, environmental promotion as an opportunity. The World Climate Summit, COP21, with the participation and involvement of Euskadi, is being held in Paris, and I would like to highlight the Basque Climate Change Strategy. Third. Main features of the budget. I will now give concrete expression to the general priorities and objectives broken down by the main areas of action. The principal features of the preceding in 2016 are these: Cheers. Contract programs form the main source of the Osade. These programs will get $2,541 million euros in 2016. These are the principal expenses of the member of Osax: the workman, 1.7869 million euros, pharmaceutical, 243 million euros, and the sanitary material, 238 million euros. Besides, we'll use 47 million to fund membership investments, health systems to remunerate the best technology and infrastructure. The other one was to open the Urduliz Hospital and build a Eibar hospital. Education. In the budget, 2,25 million euros have been transferred to educational policy. There are three main goals to get: to place students in the middle of the educational system, to administer prestige to the professor's profession, and to promote innovation in the Ministry of Education. This year, you can highlight the high school for Gaste Name. The most important expenses are those that relate to the public network. That's 1,140 million euros. On the other hand, 586 million are going to go to pay for the educational conditions with the compact schools. In high school, 310 million has been transferred to Esscal University System. Of these, 296 million belong to the Basque Country University. Cultural and euscipation. To promote culture is 35 million euros, to history and to the arts, 19 million euros, and to the sports world, 7 million. The Donostia 2016 initiative is a priority for the rest of the Euskade, even in our budgets. Language policy will budget 51 million dollars. This sum of money must be added to the following numbers: 10 million, national Administration Language for the Normaization program, and $42 million Irale's Education Program for the Basque System. By the way, today on the international day of the Basque Day, we congratulate 300,000 of the last few years new Basques. Trade and tourism. The budget supply for trading policy is 50 million euros. Of these, it will lead to the interior trade of 27 million and 23 million international productions. The budget of the tourist policy will be 14 million euros, the number of visitors to come on the Euscare during the year we hope to be the greatest. Coopertion, coworker. This year's budget will be 43 million, adding a year's dowry. 2014 and 2017 Kooperation Planning which we just accepted. This area, all open projects are still running. It's important to remember that at the cooperation of public aids offered in the state, we are offered by 50 euscal institutions. Basic infrastructure and transportation. The budget for the transportation funding will be 634 million euros. After all, you're in a 35 million dollars' budget to get ahead of the politics of the planet and the hydraulic administration. Safe and safe. $612 million for the safety policy of the defense and the citizen. The largest extension belongs to the Bordering, 580 million euros, the Civil Protection will be 4.5 million, and traffic is 12. Social protection.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u2	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u3	The policy to combat social exclusion is shaped by the benefits of the Basque system of income guarantee and social inclusion. In 2016, despite the forecast for employment growth, an amount of 494 million is maintained. Aid is income-guarantee income and supplementary housing benefit, with 461 million, and social emergency aid: 22 million to cover vulnerable situations. With regard to family policy and community development, the Family Support Act establishes measures for which EUR 63 million is earmarked. These include support for families with children, as well as support for the reconciliation of family and work life. This strategy is a priority of the Government committed to the general policy debate and we will approve the Basque strategy for family and children. Demography, birth and family represent a global future challenge that we must address in Euskadi from a strategic and comprehensive perspective. Social promotion, employment and training. Active employment policies will have a budget allocation of EUR 338 million, of which 111 will be for unregulated vocational training. Lanbide will count on almost 200 million euros to get the job activation of the maximum number of people in stable and quality employment. In this area, as we have committed, we have increased the allocation for the Lehen Aukera programme by 50%, which will have EUR 7.5 million to promote the first work experience among young people. Housing. Housing policy is carried out through Visesa public companies, with EUR 130 million; Alokabide, with EUR 57 million; and Orubide, with EUR 5 million. And also by the department itself, with a budget of 108 million. The objective is to increase the presence of the rental park as a solution of needs, favoring not only the new building, but also the rehabilitation, the capture of uninhabited dwellings and the direct aid to the payment of rent. Justice. We have allocated 140 million euros to continue the modernization of the Administration of Justice, providing the courts, prosecutors and the Institute of Legal Medicine with the best material, technological and personal means. In addition, $34 million is allocated to the area of justice to address social needs and to articulate alternative means to the judicial resolution of conflicts. It highlights the care of minors, the assumption of family meeting points and free legal assistance. Scientific, technical and applied research. The Government approved the Science, Technology and Innovation 2020 Plan in 2014, implementing a policy based on smart specialization (RIS-3), combining scientific and technological capabilities with business. It is a priority for the Government, because it is a fundamental lever for transforming the productive model and supporting the process of economic recovery. It will have an investment of 315 million, in addition to the staff costs of the education and health system for research. The Technology programme, with a budget of 115 million, plays the role of driving the smart specialization strategy. The scientific research programme has a budget of 34 million, allowing to increase the endowment to the basic research centres of excellence. To this investment is added the research contract-programme with the three Basque universities, which amounts to 34 million. The Agro-fishery research and development programme has a budget of 18 million euros. In addition, health innovation programs such as BioCruces, BioDonostia, BioAraba or Bioef, as well as public administration and innovation, are consolidated. The innovation fund culminates R & D+i policies with a funding of 51 million for research centres, the Emaiek programme and the Basque Innovation Agency, Innobasque. Primary sector. Expenditure on agriculture, livestock and fisheries policy amounts to EUR 112 million, of which 61 are from the European EAGF, EAFRD and FEMP funds. The Agriculture and Rural and Coastal Development programme will have 78 million, including the management of 51 million European agricultural funds. As regards fisheries, expenditure will amount to 14 million and the main allocation is for the improvement of trade and fisheries structures. Industry and energy. Industry policies total EUR 110 million. Includes Industrial Development and Entrepreneur Support programs, with 81 million; Innovation and Competitiveness Strategy, with 9 million; Structure and Support, with 18 million; and Industrial Security, with 1 million. Energy policy is developed through the Basque Energy Agency and has a budget of EUR 35 million. In this legislation we have lived a complex and difficult time. On December 2012, when we arrived in the government, we were absorbed in a retrospective phase. We changed that cycle in the past year. At this moment we are on our way to settle economic recovery and work-making. Here is a data which expresses this assertion: The growth expected for this year is doubled by 2,7%, registered growth in 2014, %1,4. Today Euskawa; the tendency to employment costs has been overthrown, and, though little by little, the Esscal economy has begun to grow again. Anyway, I'm warning you that we're in a dangerous context. That must make us wise, and the Government is being so. After a deep and prolonged crisis started in 2008, we moved on to economic recovery and job creation. The growth forecast for this year, 2.7%, almost doubled the growth of last 2014, which was 1.4%. Today, Euskadi is growing, has reversed the trend of job destruction and, although in moderate terms, the economy has again generated employment. A year ago we had 168,729 people registered in Lanbide, today it is 151,865, 10% less. This is our commitment and we are doing it. This month we have consolidated the figure of 900,000 people affiliated with Social Security. We are cautious and also very aware of the moment of opportunity for consolidation of recovery. We maintain the objectives approved in September 2013: 32,000 jobs encouraged, 8,000 new companies and self-employed, 75 new strategic research projects. I'm done. We face this debate with the aim of widening the path of budgetary and economic, institutional and political understanding. This is the way: institutional collaboration and public-private consultation. Since I assumed the post of lehendakari I have worked to promote a premium of agreement and collaboration between public institutions and political parties. I still believe in it. The 2016 exercise is fundamental for Euskadi. If the trend continues, it will be a year of economic recovery and employment. A year to lay the foundations for the future of Euskadi. Economic future, social future and political future. In 2013, the Government had to deal with budget capacity reductions of EUR 1.1 billion and manage accounts of EUR 9.3 billion. We had to apply rigour. In 2014 and 2015, we have continued to do so with budgets of 10,400 and 10,600 million. The draft budgets we are debating exceed 10.9 billion. All departments have more resources, but we will maintain fiscal rigour and consolidation, ensuring solidarity and public services. We will invest in modernising Euskadi and creating conditions that guarantee the future, consolidating growth and job creation. We have a mission shared by all groups. I reiterate my commitment to agreement and cooperation in the economic field and in the other areas of public policy. I stand out to this Parliament and to Basque society that effort of responsibility and guarantee of stability. I ask for your confidence to strengthen stability in our country. We need it to continue to grow, to create quality jobs and to face the future of Euskadi with greater guarantees. The government will comply with the agreement, and we will take Euskakia with us all. This calls for all the teams to cooperate. I'll say once more that I'm engaged to make an agreement and to cooperate in the economics and the other areas of American politics. I urge you to trust that you may establish the stability of our people. It is necessary from Euskaki to keep it growing and making a high-quality job. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. We're heading into full-line defense. Mr. Damboreea, representative of the American Basque Group, has the word to make up for the full correction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u5	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, thank you very much for reading the budget items for each department. We used to know them. I'm just going to tell you one thing, and I'm not going to get lost in many more. This 2016 budget, compared to 2015, differs in that it has almost 300 million more euros, which seems to be few, but which translated into pesetas of the old, is 50 billion pesetas, which is said soon. It seems little but it's a lot of money, this 300 million euros. And these 300 million euros in which this budget is increased go directly to the payment of debt and to the payment of salaries of officials, including the 1% increase. And it's over, it's over. And I'm not going into the GIR data, if they're going down, if they're going up. We're about to see you go down for a year, counselor. Some year we'll see them come down. At the moment we have only seen that they have risen from year to year, even doubling when unemployment was zero, the technical unemployment of 5%. But I'm not going in. I mean, what budget has the Lehendakari and the Basque Government brought us today? He brought us the same budget last year. He tells us that his priority is employment, and one is surprised, because of that 300 million euros, employment or investment goes not even one euro. Not a euro. And I think we should go back to the initial debate of the first budget debate at the beginning of this parliamentary term, when one thought that the crisis was a passing thing, that it would already happen, and that here, by the art of birlibirloque, things were going to be like before, and that we were going to have the revenues from before, and that things were going to work like before. And we ask this government to adapt to reality, that this crisis that began last parliamentary term and has continued in this one, what it has put everyone in place. Who has money and who doesn't. Who has to borrow, who can give it back and who can't give it back. And this government, like the previous one of the Socialist Party, has not done the duties, it has not adapted the current expenditure to the new reality. In other words, we still have a budget lower than four or five years ago, in real tax revenues, despite raising taxes to all citizens. It's been over two years since taxes went up. That's right, the current expenditure... Yes, what you have told us and moreover, in this budget no new entities, societies, foundations will be created. Hey, you're gonna finish the legislature with more than you started, more than you started. So clear. Nor have we saved anything, absolutely nothing. Nor have we changed the structure of the budget. We've consolidated the spending. And how do you pay for that? At the cost of what is paid? For it is paid at the expense of the easy, of diminishing the rights of certain people in this country and of, as the Finance Adviser said, not executing or budgeting less investments and items intended for employment, which is what happens in this budget. Of that €300 million, how many go to investment? None. And after the agreement with the Socialist Party, what happens to investment? That's down from the previous year. Why? Because more than 20 million of the Socialist Party's amendments are for current expenditure; Chapters II and IV. At the cost of what? Global credit, which were chapters VI and VII. The account is very easy: minus 20 million in investment. That is the agreement in this area when we are talking about job creation or support for the employment of this Basque Government. I have to tell you that it seems very good that you are very happy that you have this agreement, because it is logical. You're going to take out these budgets, you're going to approve them, you're not giving us anything... You said, "Next year can be a very good year, and it's going to be very good." And let's hope it's very good. But it will not be because this Budget brings something! There's nothing in it. Nothing. No measure. No news. "Employment is the priority." And what game do we see her in? Well, we don't see her at all. We don't see her in any of them. We don't see that increasing in anything at all. They keep on being like Elika, Ihobe... , absolutely useless to the Basques. They keep spending out there. Over there, yes, embassies out there that we don't know what they're for... Yeah, yeah, we know what they're for, to get two salaries, office, etc. The Basques bring us little or nothing. Yeah, yeah, this is what's holding up. But this is still being maintained, and it is that those gentlemen did not take it away either; that they had an opportunity to do so when they were in the government. Opportunity had to do so when they were in the Government. Neither did they. And what do we have in the end? It consolidates the current expenditure, increases the debt... You complained a lot about the debt of those gentlemen, of the Socialist Party government, but you are going to leave it much higher. They're gonna raise her more. Yes, the living debt, we're going to finish this legislature with almost 10 billion living debt. And that was you. Man, in collaboration with those gentlemen, that this thing of issuing today and asking for loans goes a lot; but well, you've signed up for this car a long time ago. Four years ago, Mr López was very criticized for issuing his debt; for you have not stopped. They haven't stopped for a month. Every month issuing debt. He's telling us about the investments. Look, if we discount the "Y", this government's investment is practically nil. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And it's funny to me. Man, the lady counselor is telling me... The Councilwoman and this Government, who have spent four years demanding the investments of the "Y", which, by the way, have been made: EUR 2.5 billion in the "Y", the Government of Spain. In the worst situation of the Government of Spain they have remained, have they not? And yet, this Basque government, what has it done with lines 3, 4 and 5 of the subway? Freeze them, because we don't have any money. What have you done with the trams – those gentlemen were putting in many tram amendments as well – what have you done with the trams that you were going to have? Where are they? Zero, zero. When it comes to demanding others are very fast, when it comes to fulfilling their obligations, they are so slow, so slow that we keep waiting for them to be fulfilled someday. That's right, we keep taxes higher. Now that this is fashionable from the Economic Concert, and some comparisons that are made, and we've been hearing Don Pedro Luís Uriarte explain these things, and explain how Madrid earns us in fiscal competitiveness, for example, because they pay much less taxes in Madrid than here, here we still have the highest taxes. And since we talked about the Economic Concert and the outsiders and the famous outlaw nation, we should remember that, in short, that one of the basic concepts was the tax exemption, it was that the Basques did not pay taxes. And it turns out that here we are becoming the opposite, we pay more taxes than anyone else and our companies pay more taxes than anyone else, and in the end, for what? To maintain the structure of current expenditure, to maintain foundations... In its day this government, the previous ones of the Basque Nationalist Party, created societies; when public societies began to be ill-seen, then they began to create autonomous bodies, entities; as it already began to be that, we are now at the time of the foundations. Now we make foundations, every year a couple of them. Today we make foundations and in the end it is the same because they cost the same. They cost us the same thing. And I repeat, in order to maintain this structure of spending that goes almost zero to investment, we continue to maintain the highest taxes. You were talking to us about the economic growth we have, that we are going to be around 3%, and I recognize you and I believe your Finance Advisor, when he said that basically that was because of the growth of domestic demand. And it is true, of internal demand, that is, of the expenditure of families and businesses. And this government, is it helping that or is it doing the opposite? Because, of course, if we raise taxes and have the highest taxes, we do not seem to be favouring families or businesses being able to spend more and pull out of the economy, but the opposite. That is what this Government is doing. And let him tell us that one of his priorities is helping families and reconciling family and work life... I will remind you that in this budget these aids are cut by 7%, as in the previous budget and as in the previous budget, and that you have also refused to have the status of extendables, or to have a subjective right, with those gentlemen, it is also true. That is to say, the two have been absolutely denied, because, of course, this is the government's priority, because the government's priority in support of families with children is to lower aid by 7%, of course, to reduce it by 7%, that is its priority, to reduce it by 7%, and that it is not expandable. Look, it's your Budgets, that's what's coming in these Budgets. So what seems a little paradoxical is that the lehendakari comes to tell us that this is the priority. If that were the priority they would have removed the 7 % reduction or even increased it, or made it expandable, and not until the money was spent as it has been. He never comes, he never comes! Of course, "government priority is investment in R & D+i". We are at 50% of 2012 – I say this for commenting on the budget you have brought us. If this were another of the government's priorities – real, I say –, that would increase, at least to get closer to 2012. We are in the middle of 2012, at 37 million euros, compared to 65 million euros that had been budgeted in 2012. Another thing is that they will then be spent or not, that here we also know that the paper endures everything: they put themselves and are recorded some fantastic amounts in some cases and then they are inexecuted, in the words of the Finance Advisor, because it is necessary to make savings and it is always in the same places, right? In the headings intended to help create jobs. Now and in the future. And what do you want me to tell you about Lanbide? Every year it costs us more, every year it costs us more. Its main function, which is labour intermediation, is practically nil. And I'm not going to repeat to Mr. Counselor, who made me that sign, his words of not so long ago, "it's that companies pass from Lanbide." You'll know why they're going through. I want you to tell him. What shows is that we have a structure, a superstructure, that its main function, that people find work and can work, is not fulfilled. It's not as if at least, I understand, even the counselor would like it. But reality is what it is. And the games there are for entrepreneurs, it's also for those who suffer from inexecution. Not only in Lanbide, but also in other departments. And it doesn't make me any fun, but there are speeches since they're a tired movie. This of the "cuts", "the PP government is the one that cuts, the PP cuts and the others here are fantastic of the (...). Especially the Socialist Party. "The Socialist Party will support these Budgets because it has avoided cuts." And one takes it and says, "What cut will they have avoided?" And he starts looking and says, "Look, are you going to return the extra?" Well, no. We're the government that's not going to return the Christmas bonus. You've avoided some fantastic cuts. And he says, what about this 7 percent drop in GIR? Have the Socialists avoided this cut? They haven't avoided it either, they keep it. And has the 7 % reduction in support for families with children, the cut, avoided it? Well, neither. And has the 7% drop in the reconciliation of family and work life been reduced? Neither. It's holding. And then one wonders, these Socialist Party gentlemen so social, with so much social sensitivity, so much against cuts, they who have never cut, well no pardon, yes of course, had the bad luck of having to cut, when they ruled in Spain, pensions, salaries of officials, when they ruled all these measures here. But they take them and keep them. And they keep them. And now they are kept in the Basque Nationalist Party, and one wonders how someone so social, someone who is so in favor of officials, of families, of conciliation can do this? Why would it be? Because they avoid social cuts. And I, I don't know if they're going to have the courage to go out and defend the budget or they're going to stay in explanation of vote, because there's no defense. But it will be your grace to hear you talk about how thanks to your agreement this Budget does not produce social cuts. Or, where appropriate, how the right to housing becomes a housing supplement of 250 euros, which is what comes in this Budget. That so-called "right to housing" that we were going to have all the Basques. And according to this government, that was going to be the budget failure. But we have already been told that no and indeed no. It's going to be 250 euros, exactly the same as last year, but before it was called housing supplement and now it's going to be called subjective housing right. And there's an alternative? Yes, there is. Yes, there is. We have raised it. We have raised it. We have said where we believe it can be cut. And we say where we really want it to be invested so that we can create jobs and help create jobs. And we have done so with more than 200 and more than 600 amendments. We do raise R & D & I items; we do raise aid items for entrepreneurs and SMEs, in more than EUR 20 million; or investments, which also create jobs, in hospitals and schools, more than EUR 25 million. In addition, support for children's education, VET, concerted centres, trilingualism and scholarships can be helped by increasing scholarships by more than EUR 10 million. All that can be done. Social cuts can be suppressed, they can be suppressed. There are even parties in this House that every three months bring us an initiative for the Basque Government to provide the necessary amounts for social emergency aid to reach everyone who needs it. Ah, it's also the Socialist Party; yes, I forgot. It is usually the Socialist Party's lords who bring us these proposals every three months. Of course, the Basque Government leaves it as it was, that is to say, it will continue to fail, it will end in May, as we have been doing year after year. But seeing the priorities of the Socialist Party's amendments, he discovers, far from perplexing, far from perplexing, that they only dedicate 1 million to this. That doesn't even make it to the missing City Hall of Vitoria. And I say with a lot of perplexity, because if this had been the Socialist Party's priority in this agreement, for man, the 30 million had to go to that, because the necessary amount was also covered, but it is clear that this was not the Socialist Party's priority either, at least in this budgetary agreement. With this, the question we have to ask ourselves is: what is this budget and agreement in which it benefits citizens, the Basques, in general? These over 50 billion old pesetas, what's up with them? Except for the 1% increase in officials, which obviously goes to them. To the rest of the citizens in what will they be improved? Well, we don't find that they're going to improve on anything at all. Of course, the lehendakari of development aid also spoke to us. I remember a debate, not long ago in this Parliament, of another initiative of the party of solidarity par excellence in aid for cooperation. Of course and from this bench they said, "Hey, it wasn't your priority in the budget pact they made." Hey, because this year they've been forgotten again, it hasn't been, it stays the way it was. That is to say, aid for cooperation has not been increased in one euro, which is obviously much lower than it was years ago. We do increase them in our amendments, if the lehendakari is willing to reach an agreement, which has told us that this agreement is open to all, because look, if we all agree on that, we could increase it. Allow me to doubt that this is the will or ability to reach such an agreement. I agree with the Lehendakari in one thing, we are growing and we are creating jobs, but we are growing and we are creating jobs not because this government has taken some measure in these four years that is remarkable, because we continue with the same budgets, with the same budgets, with the variation of higher or lower incomes, of those gentlemen. The same. The same measures. The same. All the programmes and all the plans that exist are the same, there is nothing new, in these four years nor a single new measure. Nothing. And we are growing, of course we are growing, because we are in Spain. Spain is growing, and the measures that have been taken in Spain, Spain is growing, the Basque Country is growing, jobs are being created and jobs are being created here. But we're going to trailer, we're growing less. Not just this year, and the year before and the year before. Why do we grow less? Why is the Basque Country not at the forefront of Spain's growth, which is where we had to be, which is where we've always been? Why aren't we pulling the car, and yet we're grabbing the car? Because we haven't taken any action. We're going to live on what others do. We haven't taken any action. What was the start of this legislature? Because Spain has a demographic problem, but ours is double. I think four years ago I was telling Mr Lehendakari that we had the problem that we are the same as 35 years ago, but 35 years older. And today, four years older than the 35, that is, 39 years older and we are the same. That's right, we're richer, because as GDP grows, the Basque Country is richer; as we divide among them, we're richer. But that is a fictitious and false wealth, because a society that does not grow below, which is where it has to grow, is ultimately doomed to live from the subsistence of others. And when we talk about pensions, of course, it is not a question of reopening that debate at this time, but of course, it cannot be more deficit, more deficit, more deficit every year. Hey, how long? And are we ever going to take any steps to make this change? Because we see nothing in this budget. And since those gentlemen were drinking with everything, they could have put some measure to pull out of the country, from employment, from economics. But no, there's nothing. That is why I tell you that I agree with Mr Lehendakari that next year can be very good and for the Basque Country especially it can be very good. But it will depend on the outcome of December 20. Sure, yeah, sure. It can be very good if the People's Party wins and Mariano Rajoy governs, because we will continue to grow and we will continue to create jobs, and taking the measures that must be taken to make that job better every time. Now, of course, if we go back to the policies that led us to 2012, by the way, endorsed by you – Mr Rodríguez Zapatero's seven budgets, the Basque Nationalist Party approved them as champions and here there is a lot of champion, yes, as champions, they approved each and every one of their budgets – and that led us to 2012. First to 11 and then to 12. Of course, when you're thinking about going back to that, we'll see. 2016 can be a very good year or it can be a year as bad as 2012. Of course, the risk premium today is at 100 points; on those dates it was at 650 or more. That happens when the one who lends you the money has confidence in the one who governs it will return it to him. And there are those who have credibility and those who do not. That's why I'm telling you, man, can 2016 be a very good year? Yes, for everyone, for all Spaniards, including Basques; or it can be very bad. But I, in the case of this budget, Mr Lehendakari, believe that you have lost, not even this year, I believe that the legislature has been lost, that you started to lose already with those gentlemen, who did not dare to do what had to be done, that was to change the structure of government spending. Look at the paradox of this budget. You have reached a budgetary agreement, which I don't really know why you are doing this, because you extend what you have, you stay with the 300 million euros more, you put debt and Chapter I, and we are the same, because that is the budget that the Basque Government has presented to us with the Socialist Party for the year 2016; that of 2015 increased by 300 million that goes to the payment of debt and to the salaries of the officials. Is this a budget that is committed to job creation, economic growth? We do not see it, we do not see it, and we do not see it, because of course we are going to ask the government to return the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u6	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. On the other side?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u7	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, chief officers. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Dambo'sea, as you say, in the back of the... Well, I'm going to start this first question, and then we'll continue our discussion later on. Question, this is our question. Why, Monsieur Damborena, is the Popular Party presenting this full-correction? Why this year you present full correction, you say it's the same budget as the year before, that you've been following the budget of the Socialist Party for years, and now you're asking me to come back to the full correction and fun. Is it because, today, December 3, a election campaign starts and you're going to have to make a speech with me and over it? Is that why it is? Because that's what you should explain. Or else your speech has no credibility. Because you've been based on it. When you've never made a full correction, and have protected it for years before. Esaten duzu: "Of course we grow up. We grow up because we grow up in Spain." "Spain is one of the most unbalanced countries in the European Union in unemployment and debt, only behind Cyprus, accompanied by Portugal and Greece, among the 28". "Spain suspends seven of the 14 indicators analysed by the European Commission." "Brussels trusts that the next government will update budgets to meet the deficit." "The Community Executive endorsed the 2016 Budget on the condition that it be updated to meet the deficit and it is estimated that they will have to make adjustments to the accounts of more than €8 billion." In other words, the People's Party presents and has approved budgets that are wet paper. That's the rigor, that's the data from Spain. Spain's poverty levels, which you also talk about social items and social aid, which we will be able to analyse later, Spain's poverty levels remain among the highest in Europe. That's their reality. You say there's nothing new. That is why I invite you to clarify why when the People's Party has never before tabled an amendment to the whole, it does now. And if the reason is that today is December 3rd and starts an election campaign. I asked what would benefit from the 113 million increase in the budget, because I remind you that the increase, as you said, is 294 million, and 181 will go to pay the debt, according to the amortization schedule established, by the way, a debt that went from 600 to 6 billion with your support, with the support of the People's Party, and that has to be paid. And there are 113 million left, indeed. 60 million are going to go to pay for public employees. He insists so much on that fact that I don't know if you are against it. Maybe it'd be nice for them to clear it up. But of course, we consider that it is time for them to recover what they have been losing for many years, and gradually to recover. 13.7 million for innovation. You say so much that for innovation no bets are made: 13.7 million for innovation. Does that sound like you little? Because I was also here saying and bragging that innovation is not making a real bet. This graph, I don't think you can see it, is from the National Institute of Statistics. I don't know if you can see it; I hope you trust what I'm going to read to you. Well, the first column is the Basque Country, R+D+i. The first, the ones we invest the most on the gross domestic product. And back here you are; Castile-La Mancha, Galicia, Castile-Leon, in yellow. How can you say that you don't invest in R+D+i, when unlike here is where you invest the most? He says we don't invest in cooperation. 3 million more of that money that you say you're not going anywhere, that where it goes, 3 million more for cooperation. 4 million more for aid to refugees. 7 million more to, of course, help people by supporting the social services portfolio. Are you saying that they will not have an impact on the lives of Basques and Basques? 0.8 per cent increase in the Department of Health; 1.5 per cent increase in the Department of Employment and Social Policy; 1.5 per cent increase in the Department of Education. That is what the increase in this budget is for. That's the reality. And now I'm gonna stay in order, starting with what you've started to say. Empleo: "Y due, "anonde esta el empleo?" "The President always says it plainly, and in the gathering of general politics in September, he said clearly: "We're in the middle of politics to create an emergency." And you said, "But where do you find that going in the budget? "Well, it's not only in a year, what a value for us is consistency. So in 2014, a Socialist Party agreement was agreed to restore the economy and create employment. A three-year-old agreement to make some consistency in the actions we're pushing. Not today, one thing and one thing tomorrow, which is the moment we live and live. And the money that moved in this agreement or agreement was 6,475 million. These are 775 million jobs. And that's where 275 million is going to go this year. Last year 258. Doing what? I'll tell you. Financing SMEs and self-employed, 14.1. Promotion of entrepreneurship, 24 million. Youth employment promotion, 23.5 million. Employment and training, 133.1 million. The bet is clear. The bet is consistent. The bet is annual. And the results are on the lookout. The unemployment rate was almost 16% in 2014 and is expected to be 13,5 years later, 2,5 points lower. It's about 14,500 jobs this year. It's expected that the next year will produce the same. In two years, 30,000. Ez dugu euforian jauzi behar; it would be a mistake to make a euphoric assessment of the data we were able to know yesterday. They must be analysed and acted in front of them with prudence, and continue to work along the line undertaken. But you will agree with us, Mr Damborenea, that the data confirm that something is changing and something is changing for good, and that the measures being taken are contributing positively so that this change in trend is taking place. You were talking about current spending and you were constantly saying that it does not fit reality. First of all, it is important to say that current expenditure does not always have a pejorative connotation. Just as investment does not always have a positive connotation. Not always. Investment will be good if what is invested is necessary for Basque society, and current spending will be bad if what is spent is not good for Basque society. But what about keeping an O.R. in good condition? Because that's a regular expense. And pay for the heating of schools? Because that's a regular expense. What about the fuel from the Ertzaintza cars? Because that's a regular expense. Do you want to know exactly how much of Chapter II is intended for health expenses? 85.4% of the current expenditure of the Basque Government. Do you want to know how much of the current expenditure of the Basque Government is directed to Education? 4.5%. That's the reality. That is the current expenditure, a current expenditure that this Basque Government refuses to cut, if that means cutting heating in educational establishments, if that means losing in the quality and safety of the maintenance of our hospitals. That is an absolutely necessary current expenditure. How do you pay for all this? "At the cost of cutting rights." Man, Mr Damborenea, it is hard for us to hear from the People's Party about cutting rights, you who have led an offensive to cut rights, an offensive to cut rights, to leave out of the aid system those people who have the greatest difficulties, those people who are most vulnerable. You who supported in 2012, together with the Socialist Party, which was then ruling, that 7% cut in access to aid, are now telling us why we don't take it off. Why they put it is the question! How can the People's Party call us "cuts"? "Ineffective waste." You obviously represent a political project that has nothing to do with the political project of this Government when you are referring to as ineffective expenses, for example those for language policy, those for EITB, those for government delegations, for Basque delegations abroad, delegations that we believe are absolutely necessary, and more so in times of current economic crisis, because they are really fundamental to the Basque Country strategy. They know the country where they are perfectly well, they have networks of contacts that are absolutely necessary for the advice they offer to companies that intend to reach those... – yes, that is so, Mr.Damborenea – they do mediation and facilitation work in the places and countries where the delegations are, very important to help companies and the various agents who want to get to those environments. You are very much committed to saying, "Those gentlemen were ruling, those gentlemen were ruling," but it is that "those gentlemen" were ruling with their support, so all you could do is share responsibility for them, because I suppose it would not only be a matter of taking the presidency in Parliament, something else you would talk about, some more capacity you would have to intervene in the decisions of the government. Don't get rid of the responsibility for all that now. No, no, it's not reasonable, you have to take responsibility for your actions, decisions will not always be right, they will not always be, but you have one to take, because the opposite is an exercise of political irresponsibility. You were referring again to the debt and that we were going to leave the debt higher. Here too, I think it is important to compare debt data. "The debt of the Autonomous Communities in 2014". Do you know what Castilla-La Mancha's debt was in 2014? 34.5. No, Mr. Damborenea, it is that you also manage and we remind everyone how you preach with the example where you make government decisions. Because it's very easy to talk, it's very easy to make a political speech, but then you have to go to the facts and see what everyone does. Castilla-La Mancha, 34,5% – by the way, two points more than Catalonia, which has a huge debt, but Castilla-La Mancha two more points –; Balearic Islands, 29,5 %; Murcia, 25,6 %. Do you know what the debt level of the Basque Country is? 14.10 %. 20 points less than Castilla-La Mancha. And it is also important for you to know, that the increase in debt that has occurred during this legislature, is scrupulously in compliance with the Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act. "Investment is null." It's another one of the statements you make. The investment, the payment appropriations of the investment chapters of this Budget, VI, VII and VII, represent an amount of EUR 1,213 million, compared to EUR 1,209 million in the previous Budget. Environment and Territorial Policy, 544.9 million; Education, Language Policy and Culture, 105.5 million; Economic development of competitiveness, 263.3 million. For just giving him a few examples. And indeed the "And Basque" is an important investment, but it is the only one, the only investment that is the Government of Spain is doing here! An investment that was planned to end a few years ago and is slowing down. The only investment! And you were talking about the lady counselor. Mrs Oregi explained, with all due detail, the investments that are being made in Euskadi. And I'll read it again in case you have any questions. He told them: "Metroaren hirugarren line, Artxandako tunnel, Loiolako geltokia, Donostialdeko metroa, Ermuan bikoizteko lanak, Durangoko operation, Derio eta Hendaiako geltokiak birmoldatzea, hainbat trenbide passagune kentzea (Urduliz, Bedia, Zaratamo, Zarautz), Gasteizko tranbia zabaltzea, Leioako tranbia prestzeko jarduerak". The problem is, there's no deafer than he doesn't want to hear. It doesn't matter! You told the lehendakari you haven't read the data. We don't care if we read them to you once and a thousand times! We use and practice the insistential method, it will not be because of our commitment: insist to see if they listen to us, insist to see if they read them, offer them texts to see if they see them. Because they've made it clear to you, but it doesn't matter. Because I insist, there's no deafer than the one who doesn't want to hear. "We keep the highest taxes and we don't have that money." I would like to know what data you have handled in making this statement. That is, before you do that, you will have done a data analysis to say "In Euskadi you have the highest taxes and the money that is available, the money that is reversed in society is less." Because you've valued what? That the Euskadi social expenditure is 40% of the total state? Have you considered that in Euskadi in health 1,572 euros are invested per person per year, 50% more than in Andalusia? Have you considered that 75.2% of the total budget of the Basque Government is an expenditure that goes to universal education and health and social protection for all people who have big or economic problems? 75.2%. Even the Spanish government, some minister, has said that Euskadi is indeed a pioneer in social issues and proposals. That's the truth. Do you know how much you invest here in income guarantee income? 70 times more than in Castile-La Mancha. Seventy times more. The average for Spain is 11.4 euros per inhabitant, and in Euskadi 163 euros per inhabitant. And of course you come to tell us that we have less money here. How can you say that? From 163 to 11.4 euros. We 0.07% for RGI. Do you know how much Galicia, Madrid, Comunidad Valenciana or Castile and León are destined for? 0.07, 0.01, 0.02 and 0.01. That's the reality. That's reality, not another. And as for quality, we can also give it indicators, because not only is it necessary to see how much is invested, it is necessary to see how it improves, what is the improvement in the well-being of that society in which it is investing. And we can go and analyze educational indicators, for example. And Education, in Euskadi, we are a leader in educational excellence, according to an analysis neither of nationalists, of Professionals for Ethics, a report of independent professionals that values educational policies in the State. And you know what data it gives? It says, it's excellence. And other Eustat data I'm going to offer you. Early school drop-out rate. Do you know what the dropout rate is in Euskadi? 7.2. And in Spain? 21.9. From 7.2 to 21.9. Do you think that's random? Well, no. This is because we are investing in specific policies aimed at guaranteeing the future of this country, which starts with training and education. Another figure, population with secondary education studies of 2014, 86.7%. Do you know which one is in Spain? 65.8. Another figure, population with higher education level 48.9. In Spain, 42.3. Because it's invested, it's invested at all levels of education. And I also give you data on health improvement. Do you know that life expectancy at birth in Euskadi is almost three years higher than the EU average? Do you know that the infant mortality rate in Euskadi stands at 2.7 per 1,000 live births, compared to 4.1 per 1,000 live births in the European average? And do you know how people value their health and health system in Euskadi? With 80% satisfaction, as good or very good. And all of these indicators are given because we have a good health system, which we bet on and invest in. There's the tax money people pay. There it is. Conciliation aid and social emergency aid. Social emergency aid in the 2012 budget was 17 million and is currently 22 million, and if some of the amendments that are to be approved are approved, it will be 1 million more, 23 million. 6 million increase, a considerable increase, nothing at all negligible. Conciliation aid has also risen significantly and there is no problem this year to be able to respond to all the requests that are being received. And as for the expandable starting consideration, which you said the Government refuses to do, the Government does what it does is to prioritize consideration, prioritize what it should prioritize, the expandable starting consideration of what subjective rights are. That's what you have to do. It also referred to the consolidation of the existing structure and the retention of certain entities that could disappear or be significantly reduced. I tell you again, these existed when you were there, you didn't do anything to make them disappear. But anyway, for us to merge by merging is not the smartest way to cut social spending. It does nothing to respond to pre-electoral impulses on this issue either. All those societies to which you have referred may have areas of cooperation and collaboration, but that does not mean that they should be merged, at all, because they would cease to be dedicated to the specificity and specialization with which they are now doing their work. You in your amendment say that these budgets do not bet on the country, but that is the expression you used exactly in the amendment as a whole. And of course, we do not agree with you at all. It is for this country, because it is a budget that currently has a humanist approach, made with a humanist approach, which has and guarantees, as we have said before, universal education and health for all Basques and all Basques, and a powerful model of social protection for those who are in a more vulnerable situation. It is a budget that is committed to the future of this country, because it is committed to education, because it is committed to intelligent development, because it is committed to innovation, because it is committed to job creation, because it is committed to economic recovery, so that in this country we generate wealth for all people, for all businesses, and so we can go out of the context and crisis situation in which we are. And it bets on the future of this country, because what this budget is not going to do is to be so indebted, pretending to meet the needs that are infinite or can be infinite today, mortgageing the possibilities of responding to the demands and needs that future generations will have. That would be not to bet on this country, on the future of the country. Because this country has to keep in mind and has to keep in mind, and it has to have a future. And future generations have to be guaranteed. A responsible Government must present a budget such as the draft budget submitted to us by the Lehendakari, which guarantees the response to the current needs, which clearly sets out its priorities, without undermining the response to the needs that will arise in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. On the day of the answer, representing the Basque Potion Group, Lord Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u9	Thank you very much, Madam President. This last sentence of yours, Mrs Gorospe, reminded me of a member of my party in a village of Bizkaia who asked him, "And why are you going to vote in favour of the budget?", he said to me, "It's square, it's square revenue and expense." Well, since this last sentence of yours from this budget reminded me, I don't know why, it reminded me of that sentence. You ask why we are making an amendment in its entirety. Man, I'm going to remind you of this legislature and what we, as a People's Group, have done. First Budget of the Government. We say that the situation is very bad, that we are willing to help and collaborate. Hey, we got the word in our mouths. The budget was withdrawn. Man, we met with the councilman and he didn't even tell us that the budget was being withdrawn. Okay, well, well, okay. Next Budget. "No; we want to agree with more than one, such, we have an agreement with the PSOE but we are..." Listen, we were accepted four amendments and a chicken was mounted in the committee, I don't know if you remember it. He's not the one who set it up right now, is he? But a chicken, come on, that's clear, for everyone who wants to understand it, that this thing of being able to support or improve or do something... Hey, four amendments! Last year. We are not making a full amendment, you are right. We said: "We are willing to reach an agreement" – like the first year and as the second year – "and to help". We ended up voting against the budget last year. I'm telling you to remember. Because, of course, we voted against the budget. Why do we vote against the budget? Because nothing could be negotiated. And this year, as they announced in the budget agreement, it became clear and clear that no amendments were accepted from anyone else. Well, we've already introduced the amendment asking for a refund, so why are we going to be fooling around, right? Or do we have to hide? We're not here to hide. We were made clear from the beginning, and this year more than ever, that no amendment will be accepted, so we can make here the paripé that we are all here... He's not going anywhere. The deal's already closed. So you ask me why we are presenting the refund amendment? Hey, we didn't like last year's budget or last year's budget. We have not voted for this government in favour of any budget, I would remind you. And when you tell me the previous budgets of those gentlemen, I remind you that those gentlemen we stop supporting them for that, for that. Because our agreement, when it says "The agreement with the Socialist Party...", we did it in writing and public. That is what we have agreed, in writing and in the public domain, that of this agreement, which is less budgetary than anything else, neither in writing nor in the public domain. We agreed with those gentlemen in writing and in public what our commitment was and why we supported that government. We've never cheated on anyone. You tell me that Spain is one of the countries with the most inequalities in the euro. Of course it is. And the most unemployed he's got. Of course. Thanks to your support for Mr Rodríguez Zapatero for seven years. And you say to me now, "Things are changing." Of course they're changing! After four years of Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party. Of course they're changing! The problem is that you now want to go back to the other. If it looks like they're okay with that. Of course, of course. And on top of that, it compares me to Castilla-La Mancha. Listen, in Castile-La Mancha... –I could give another example, I don't know, I don't know what you have with Castile-La Mancha – in Castile-La Mancha the People's Party has only ruled the last legislature. Of all the others. And he found what he found. And you tell me you have more debts than we have, and they had twice as much, twice as they have today. Double. Look at the data from five, what data Castile-La Mancha had. Of course, he had twice what he has today. And you tell me, it's very bad, of course it's very bad. I just had to see how she was doing. And let's see how it ends, that's the next one. Man, you're telling me it's time for the officials to get back the cuts you've made. Who? The PP? The one who made the PP, which was the one with the extra pay, already returns it. And this government, and the Basque Nationalist Party – if you tell me it's time for them to be returned – why don't you give it back in this budget? We've already returned it. And you? Why do they refuse to return it? Because what comes in this budget is that they refuse to return it. Do you know what's wrong with him? They no longer have the excuse, they no longer have the excuse of "it is the government of Spain that compels us". So, that excuse is over and when it's over the excuse of "it's that we're forced to do it" and you can change... Well, we still don't. And I also remember the contributions to civil servants' pension funds. "It is that the Government of Spain forbids us to do so, forbids us to do so." "An amendment to the budgets of the Government of Spain is necessary to remove it." Hey, we'll take it, we'll take it off. And where are these contributions in this budget? Nowhere. Nowhere. Nowhere. What's here is an amazing Basque Nationalist Party paripé. Here the cuts that they make motu proprio, when they no longer have the excuse that they force us, because you come here, you make a speech of alignment, right?, and we look very good. You tell me "because we are the autonomous community that we spend most on R & D+i." Yeah, I didn't say no. What I told you was that we spent half that four years ago. I'm saying it to remind you. I didn't tell him if we spent more or less. Half. I don't compare myself to others, I compare myself to us, to us, and I tell you we're investing half that four years ago, okay? That's what I'm saying. And he tells me, where's the job? Because you ask the question I ask you. Where's the job? And you tell me that the lehendakari every time he talks, he talks about the job. I know, if I already know; if in all your statements it is one of the priorities. I say where employment is under the headings of the budget or where aid is under the headings of the budget, because I repeat that of the almost EUR 300 million, almost EUR 300 million, because there is nothing going on under these headings, because there is nothing left. But not because I don't think it's right for the officials to get 1%. No, I didn't say that. What I'm saying is that of the 300 million, between the payment of the debt and the payment of the officials, there is nothing left. That's what I'm telling you, and if there's nothing left, there's nothing left. And you tell me that the data confirms that something is changing. Listen, something is not; much is changing, much is changing, but not because of what this government has done, because of what the government of the People's Party in Madrid has done, with the votes against always of the Basque Nationalist Party. Of course it's changing a lot. It's changing everything! We can talk about what you want, about the risk premium, about the job, about everything, we can talk about it. Of course it's changing. The change in this country came four years ago, four years ago, and what we have been doing to this government for four years is that it does not cooperate in anything. It's just that we could do a lot better. We thought that we could go much better and that is what we have been putting forward here for four years, that we should be at the forefront of growth and job creation, and not that we should go to trailer. I don't know what happens to you with the heating in the schools. I'm surprised, I'm surprised. It won't be a move the government intends to announce to us soon, will it? Because when I talk about ordinary spending, it's obvious that I'm not talking about those things, and you know it. Now if you take it this way, you start to think and say how it might have occurred to some parliamentarian who can cut heating spending in schools. And you say "fuck"! It supports the Government, as someone from the Government has had this brilliant idea. I hope you do not want to carry it out, but come on, our amendments you already know are not going that way. You tell me, the only investment of the Government of Spain is the "Y". Look, it's not true, but I'm going to tell you one thing. The "Y" had to have been open and opened long ago, as you say. But you forget that here there was a government with a lehendakari called Ibarretxe, who had a tripartite, who had agreed that the "Y" was paralyzed, with Mr Madrazo, and you paralyzed her. Four years, four years. And then there was another government in Spain, with Mr Rodríguez Zapatero, with his support in all budgets, and the investment was half of half that of the government of the People's Party in this legislature, with its votes, with its votes. You are fantastic; you are directly responsible for those delays during all those years, and the last one to arrive is the one to blame for not being there. Look, if it was you, you and the Socialist Party who ruled. We arrived four years ago.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u10	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u11	And look, you tell me how I say we have the highest taxes than in Madrid. Listen, I say it and Pedro Luis Uriarte says it, that when he's explaining the Economic Concert he makes a fairly clear and obvious comparison. Right? And give some data. I won't give it to you – because you have the copyright –; no, I won't repeat it here, but come on, that seems to be clear. We have the highest corporate tax, we have the IRPF, the highest IRPF types. Hey, that's right, obviously. Look, when I spoke to you about this agreement that you have here, as I do believe the social sensitivity of the Socialist Party and have not achieved on any of the parties, nor on any of the issues that we have talked about in this Parliament for so many days and sessions, has not managed to see it in these Budgets at all, it is clear that the pact responds to another reason.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u12	Mr. Damborena.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u13	We're attending, not a budget pact...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u14	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u15	...or because Budgets are good or bad, and in fact it doesn't even defend them. It is a pact, a PNV-Socialist Party agreement, for some to vote here and others to vote there. Some vote here on the PNV; the PNV votes on the Socialist Party elsewhere...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u16	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u17	It seems he has only one possibility, which is in the Congress of Deputies, but we will already take care of some that this pact cannot be fulfilled. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u18	Thank you. To answer this, Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u19	Don't worry, Mr Damborenea, because I have given you some examples so that you can see very clearly that the current expenditure of the Basque Government is being used perfectly, because it seems that you are in the mood to stigmatise the current expenditure just by its nature, and I wanted to put some clear examples for which you could perfectly visualize it. In the first round, I did not provide you with information on a specific subject, with Lanbide, and I think it is very important, very important to evaluate the work being done since Lanbide. Because you have complete information on respect, which the Basque Government sends to Parliament on time, and you know that there are about 400,000 people who care in Lanbide, 400,000 people, Mr Damborenea, so that we can disregard the work that is being done from there. And besides, they can belong to more than one of the groups that are served in Lanbide. It is important, in line with what you pointed out, to offer you some data. EUR 111 million in training, EUR 111 million in training, and EUR 226 million in programmes and services for employment inclusion, including guidance and mediation. I have not been able to answer you in the first round, and regretting that I did not, that I had to do it in the first round, I do find it interesting to provide you with this information. He told me why I tell him Castilla-La Mancha, I can list all the autonomous communities and the deficit, but it seemed to me very long and not only did I tell him Castilla-La Mancha, I told him Castilla-La Mancha, I told him Catalonia, I told him Balearic Islands, I told him Murcia, but if you want me to tell him Andalusia, which is 20.90. I can tell you all. It seemed to me that it was an example of the level of indebtedness of the Autonomous Communities and the level of our indebtedness, of the Basque Government, of the Basque Autonomous Community. I think it is very important when you are offering data, giving data about the environment around you in order to know, in that context, how it is located. I think they were data that could provide you with information. You referred to the approval by the Basque Nationalist Party of Zapatero's Budgets in 2011. I'll just tell you one thing that you know very well, that you know very well. What did we bring to Euskadi? The Economic Concert, the armor, coincides with this. Always us, always us watching for the good of Euskadi. Many times alone and alone. "Why don't you pay the extra pay?" And you say, "Why don't you pay the extra pay, because now nothing forces you to do it, it's no longer worth making excuses." I don't know what the exact word you used was, but good. Article 135 of the Constitution, remember? Do you think that's a joke? Do I remind you of the Budget Stability and Financial Sustainability Act? Do I remind you of the actual legislative decree that you have adopted so that you can allow the payment of the second 25% of the payment? And do I remind you of the last provision of that royal legislative decree? As we made clear in the debate we had on this subject with Mrs Llanos, she says very clearly: 'Economic and financial sufficiency must be sufficiently motivated.' And of course, we, then, said and now say that the commitment of the Basque Nationalist Party in the Basque Government and in all the institutions it governs to pay the 2012 extra pay is clear. And it will be paid, always without jeopardizing the financial sustainability and budgetary stability of the institutions we govern. Because you also force us to do so. You also force us to do so. R & D+i. You say, "I have not said that in Euskadi it invests less than in other autonomous communities." Yes, but it is that you have forgotten to say a detail that is very important, that of that budget increase, 13.7 million euros – yes, yes, look well in section 99 – 13.7 million euros go to innovation. A huge effort. That's what you forgot to say. And higher taxes. As far as we have less money, I think it has already become clear to you that that is clear, that that does not have a pass. He doesn't have a pass. That here the availability of money and that Basque society has a considerable level of social welfare – in different areas – important, thanks to the fact that we have that money, and that money is well invested. But I will tell you that, for example, in corporate tax, and in the income tax on natural persons you set as an example, they are slightly more favourable. Because regardless of the types, we have better deductions on issues that are very important to us. In R & D+i our deductions are better. Environmental deductions are better; our cinema deduction is higher than that of the state; we have a reserve of investments that they do not have in the state; we admit the deductibility of the deteriorations – yes, Mr.Damborenea – and in the IRPF all the deductions are still more beneficial in the Basque Country, yes, except the one of disability, which we all know in the development of the Unity Law and through the way of spending, how much we invest in this matter. That is the reality and the whole must be taken into account. That's the reality. That's why I was telling him. And you were referring to the People's Party alternative. The People's Party alternative, you said. Do you know what the People's Party alternative is? The alternative Moscovici, I call him. The alternative of the wet paper budget. The one with the wet paper. Because the budget you have approved in Madrid is not worth anything. It's not worth anything. Because they leave them, they leave them from Europe; they warn them, they tell them well, well, hala, go ahead with that budget; the government that comes, changes it, cuts it. At least 8 billion cuts will have to be made by the next government. Wet paper. The alternative of PP is the alternative Moscovici. Making a budget that is useless, that is no reference. The People's Party, do you know what it has done? Three and a half years of stressing society for, for six months, now, on the eve of an election campaign, throwing the house out the window, throwing the house out the window to win an election. With an exercise of enormous political irresponsibility and leaving the brown to the next. Leaving the brown on the next one. And we will see, because we will see, because time passes and you usually witness the things that are going on; and I move you – I said once too – to make an assessment of this whole irresponsible policy in March; budgetary and irresponsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Then we'll discuss the correction of the entire EH Collect Group. His agent, Mrs. Beitical, has the word, in order to remove the full correction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u21	Thank you and good day to all. Weak, gray, without ambition, with strong lack of strategic direction, and expressly refuse to political leadership. That's how we defined the budgets we've been assigned to the Basque Country for 2016 full-term full-reproposed full-gressional book. There are also the last of the ages, and, as far as we have seen, there are no innovations. We might even add that it is an empty proposition to go on forever. A lost period of time taking steps in the course of our necessary change, and transforming the present on the path to build and conquer the future. So we're not much surprised at priorities, but I'm sorry that President Urkullu's hiking had given him priorities to his work: to offer extreme obedience to the police of morality, to depend on the constitution of the Spanish Government, and to remain in the expectation of the difference and agreement which is useless to expect. And no doubt it's a possibility, but it's not ours, especially for the terrible consequences of this. In the political opportunity which we live in, seeing the size of the hinges before us, the mere management and slowness of what is, the gradual reduction of the restrictions, retreating in the quality of public services, and abandoning thousands of citizens on the side of the road, is not the right way. Much less, that there is no other way of selling it, that there is no alternative; that when it is known there is always more than one possibility in any case. We'll be told that the party that protects us isn't the end of money. But he will conceal from us that it belongs to the political gatherings, and that there is a more just society, in order to make a greater contribution to those who have more. It is only to be seen that the pressure of the European Union is one of the petty taxations of the European Union, another 7 points less, so that there is a way to make it, if it is allowed to be paid more by the higher revenues, and the taxation of the prosecutors if it is not only for the rent of simple workmen. This is seen in the synagogue, and it is true, that though there were still many steps left to give, the Gipus have gained better results compared to other countries, where the numbers are there, I will not repeat them. He'll tell us that it's an order all governments have done well with gatherings, but he'll hide from us, at the same time, that we've not all played the same thing in this circle and that it's possible to keep it in proportion as it is a tool, without reducing it to the cores, without making the object of payment, just as it's done with fun. I mean, there's something you can do in dealing with the debt, or just as you'd like to do, to show you a firm and unconditional attachment to the police, to hide behind it and take off your debt. There are two possibilities, one or two. How else can we understand about the debt that the weight of the debt has ever been the biggest in the budget? 1.171 million, 11% of the entire budget. When the deficit limit of Spain is lower than ever, it's 0.3%, and the settlement option is 242 million less. And this is in the Esquimic Autonomic Euscal, in the land where the greatest part of debt is needed. So don't cheat. It's not that you propose to pay some debt, and that's not the point. The question is, that payment is for you, and the preference for us is something else, and that we ought to form a plan in which to pay the debt, namely, for the financial development that is essential, and the public policy for social protection. For we believe that the principal object of the budget is clear: to promote social panic, to prevent inequality and social rupture, and to prevent them, and to place columns in the direction of an balanced economic development. And in that way, I will repeat, they are instruments, not ends. This is evident from the fact that everyone here has his priorities. We, as in the budget, have tried to defend them in this Parliament for all the years, in which they were our privilege. And, in truth, we shall continue in this, because we wish to build our own, from this and that, and the majority to unite us to it. Because that's what it takes. Besides, we think it should be possible. We heard the President of the Urcullu at the beginning of his apprenticeship, and today also, that he aims at creating employment and improving the economy. So do we. But it is not enough to say, because reality is stubborn, and it teaches us that the games to create employment are very rare, that this little thing that is being produced and produced is not, either in the public or in the private. And here's a lot of data. I shall not lose myself in the data, I shall speak of some one or other, and not the data of the collected EH, which are the data of others, and those which are there: 92% of the contracts are temporary, 40% does not last a week. I'm afraid it's impossible for me to bind him and his quality to these data. If, then, the way up till now does not set us straight, we will continue to grasp the same path, if we are content to consider the forms of work which are criticised with small mouths, and which are at last taken for the benefit of the development of the policy which they wish to make, because the results which such politics are bringing us are the cause of. And what to say about economic recovery. The divisions of study, development, and innovation are constantly followed by a gradual tendency. If we compare it with 2012, I think it's more important than what's been given before, when we compare it with the 2012, that section will be less than 17%. So if we still had climbing up from one year to another so far from what we once had, we're not feeling well. It's not enough to spend more, we should ask if it's enough. We think we need to ask ourselves whether we have, with these numbers, any chance that we have a chance to face the loss of 7,000 companies and the 30 percent of the sector, that's where that data is also. We give this question a clear answer: It is difficult for us to do less resourceful of this crude reality. It's not beyond Marketing-operatives, we think, taking effective measures, while companies close and delocate, without implemented in any efficient way to do anything against them. Therefore, if we call it a goal, but without any suitable means and policy, we shall be off. And there's nothing to say about public business. Here's where you're going to be, and there's a lot of money going on: but, I repeat, the question is not so much going on, but it is enough, and the result says no, because social differences are increasing, because it is obvious: There are 435,000 people in danger of falling into poverty, 20%; if we go to the women's rate, we're talking about 65% of what percentage we're talking about! You said you shouldn't mortgage futures, right? But we are becoming poor today, and these women will also be poor in the future, even when they are pensioners. So we're denying the future and mortgageing the present. So we have to focus on the data and we're looking at the effective measures. And what they show is that we can't say politics are right, otherwise we'd have other results. That's pure math. And this data, we think, shows the wrong policies that have been made. And I will give another piece of information, which is still more significant: the danger of falling into poverty during the last two years has risen to 77%. Think of the percentage we're talking about! We're not talking about small percentages, we're talking about high percentages. That, in our opinion, is right in not going forward to social rights. Because it is a more serious necessity to keep what is to be kept back, the results of practice show. And that's the reality that this preview is trying to hide with the numbers. He will say here and there that he spends more; but it is evident that he is not sufficient, if we all have the same end: a cohesion society, a society with worthy employment, a society that we all live better. We don't have that society today. We'll compare with Castilla-La Mancha with the other... Let's compare Europe to this, please! Let's not compare to what's worse than to what we've got! I think that all the individuals who are behind these numbers cannot regard this situation as tolerable, and that they cannot agree, and that we ought not to accept it. We should think how we should do this better, because this is the reality we have to upset, because if we want to do what we need to do, because we need budgets that will be effective to determine the reality that we're all going to live better, and to destroy the differences. And, you know, it's like, we think we're gonna go down the hill like this. And we can come next year, and we can spend the same or worse data around poverty and the rest of the data. And we don't want that. And we think that we can't accept it as a society. And we know: These budgets, even if we say all this, will be able to get ahead. PSE who has been willing to sell the bargain for another year, having preferred to present himself to his parliamentary practice for the full corrections and parties, to allow the Jeltist of the Basque Party to remain eternal, forever and ever, without giving access to his proposals in the presidency. It seems, moreover, that in twenty-five million years ago, the number of simultaneous game-makings received by the Jeltizers-a year and a year ago. And this means that three things essentially belong to us, both of them. That the reductions made from 2012 are perpetuated, which do not recur, but are taken notice of only the criteria of competition, and that what is serious will be rejected by the injunctions given by the legislative; And perhaps they will try to tell us that what we propose is impossible, but that is evidently not acceptable: for we have expressed how to draw money in our proportion as we have expressed it, without any other remedy than that we ought to make corrections. And, on the other hand, if the Socialist Party thinks so, let him speak plainly to the citizen, let him say that he defends one thing in word and another in action. I mean, he doesn't want the basic rights to ensure that the basic numbers in it want to be the default: To return to 7% of social support, 70 million; to ensure the pensions of one thousand dollars, 73 million, 11 million, 5 for social shocks, 10 to offer jobs, or 4 to reduce list of waiting. To these few, and to those who have gone to sit on the table in the legislature, must be resisted by the 35 million, as you have done in the agreement you have made, and this must be made clear to the public. But that and more must be known by the people. I mean that these 35 million are for councils in Mayor 14,5 PSE, which lead more than social policy, education, and health, by agreement, more than social policy. The facts show what each one is doing, at least the Socialist group has a climatelism, and with that we think everything is said. And what do you say about Fracing or Housing Law? In the first place, we can't say that you've been very careful not to show the tendency to support the EAJ in the budget. They're supposed to make two mistakes, and the other Basque Country used to come out with the theme. Twice. After that you tried to convince yourself that there are no matches in the budget for the franchise, some of them, but that you had a chance to establish other priorities in the six million SHESA money that you'd decided on, and that you could raise that number. And finally, you know, you know, knowing the time for permission transfers, and if they go on their way, it's possible to hide in front of them the attitude towards the franchise, because several steps will not be given until 2017, because they've even made that calculation. I don't know about you guys. As to the law of Hooli, it is not in politics to be required that a man who stands before him should rely on the faith which required the first confidence; What we are asked to believe is that he who has not the will to change anything, has in the presidency intended to overthrow his politics. Believe us or not. That's what he's asking us to do. And we in numbers, in the past three years, when we heard of the long transfer of three years, working in power... when there is, we have more data than that to go into the faith. And we have another angle. And we believe that there is nothing more to be seen than what is said of itself, in the presuputies, to know the danger of the sum. You want to make us believe that it's a real stake for the rent when we see how life is bleeding for the past few years. Not because the ends mentioned by the law, but because the term ends are far too remote from fulfilling those infinitely inferior to the Housing Plans. And even though numbers show a different direction, you want to persuade us that you will do something else, and that you have a commitment to it. What we've seen in three years is enough for us not to do it. If the Socialist party wants to do it, we, in fact, will continue to listen and ask for steps because we don't trust them. We don't believe in it or trust it. We only believe in what we finally agreed to accept the law, because I just want to remember that they didn't vote for it. For one thing, we should say that the prospect of 2016 doesn't complete the basicst part of the world. I'm still in the 'Frant' life in this district. And I may say many things, but so as not to take all the force of this subject, I will only give two simple examples of what concerns this law, the source of our suspicions and fears. On the one hand, in the law, with the initiative of collecting the Basque Country, he established the bounds of the number which the citizens ought to have to direct to the house, the percentage, the only thing we should offer him to be worthy of our lives, considering that we have other expenses, which was said to be done according to the income of each. So, no doubt, the Hindu law did not receive this spirit with a certain number of gestures for all families. And this is the law which has been brought to the budget, the same number for all families. The first payment will have a limit, and consequently the reality we are saying, in order to face that reality which is to be faced with, no measure will be foreseen. In the first place, it says the same quantity for everyone. Look at the little example I've mentioned. On the other hand, the law was predicting your lack of will. I think the Social Party will say so much to me. And for this reason, although in the first year no regulation could be made, he defined a set of people who could claim their rights, so as not to escape. Yeah, well, that's what's going to happen. Of course. as little as possible, as little as possible. At least, in the budget, that's pretty clear to us. he will not make the slightest step beyond that which is inevitable. And therefore, with these two simple examples, and with the other dozen, if we are to measure this law, the will of the Government, because this Parliament admitted it to be the majority of the Government, I dare say that this will is invisible. And I repeat: our purpose is that the right of the housing is really a subjective right, and that people have this reality, and that it is not as terrible as it is at the present day, we should prefer time to deprive us of reason. As a matter of fact, I'd rather stay here long enough if the reasons were taken away. It's a sign that a lot of people out there probably are that would be disappointed. And I am afraid I do not; perhaps, if I hope in this, not because there are some here which will change, but because the change will change in some other way. So, and after what we've said, it's obvious that the Basque Country cannot protect these presidencys. These are not the things that answer our wants; on the other hand, it increases the abyss and diversity of society, as it has increased in the last three years. Education, health, employment, and social services are still weakened in the same way, the rise of numbers is not weakness, it is not a reduction, it brings everything back to itself, so we cannot read such a reading. And that's not what the Basque People want, much less the future. And by the way, I mean, we're ready to go on over and over this situation. I repeat: If we don't get out there on the threshold to interact with those who are asking for a future based on social justice, those who are out there at the moment, while things are changed from below and you're able to move. That's what we're going to insist on. As you have shown how to despise the will manifested by the legislative, and not to obey, we, with the imposatas of Madrid, have a clear will to break up with the neoliberal policies which separate society from us, with the closeness of those who deny us as a people. That's our North. And because we have the will to complete a proper state that will bring us a better future. In this is our hope, our faith, our hope, our strength, and our business. because we cannot wait, because we do not wish to be subject to any one, because the time has come to make decisions and to make them respected in this people. And that's what we're ready for. I repeat, we must obtain the majority in this country. We must defend ourselves as a people before attacks, and we must decide as a people what we want. There are different alternatives, you can defend different alternatives, but you can put alternatives on the table and let the people decide. Let them not only be citizens who will pay the handsomest ones we'll pay for, but also those who will be the leading in the decisions of these policies. And I want to finish it, I won't waste my time. I think I've said the most important thing, and then I'll be able to say more. To this day I will join myself, and we will be as a group before we are finished. I want to tell you, by the way, all this way from the different facts we have in common, this plurality, but we want to make the Basque People. And today, you can't just end up in the Basque Day without making a complaint: and in this part also he denies the present and the future to the savings of Prescesss. It is well to congratulate the new Basques, as Mr. Urkullu has done, because the new Basques do enormous work. But his weight, the weight of the eucalyptus, has sunk almost half in half with the action of this government, and this is also a reality. And it's a language we still have in full danger. It is, therefore, not enough to congratulate what the rest of the world advances. It is necessary that the efforts of either of them should produce the results. There is therefore one reason why one more motive should be connected with this work of revolution, and even opposed to these presidencys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. On the other hand, Signor Eggar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u23	Good morning, everyone. Before the correction of the Basque People to the corrections of the whole district of the Union, I myself have had four fountains to reach it, to introduce myself into arguments and reasons, and to give our opinion. Those four fountains were: First, the press conference, when you announced that you would present full correction. The second is the same correction of the whole, which has been introduced in writing. The third, I dare say, of today's practice, direct, most valuable. And there is another fourth, and in the same time the corrections of the parts in which the groups present themselves. All this gives a sort of general view. And if you stick to the first, what you said in the press, and the rest of the press, you mention today, that this government rejects political leadership, this government, that weak, gray, ambitious, indicates slow management, presupposes a stable and permanent reduction. And then you mentioned a tax examination, and then you compared the situation of the country. It shows in the text that we govern the policy of the great, powerful, rich corporations, lords' policy. Austerity policy, dependence, weakness, social economic recovery, private hands, marketing. Well, that's the diagnosis, the diagnosis you make on your side. Then we go to study philosophy, why a total amendment has a political grip, and then we see partial corrections. All the alternatives have to be examined, we've already said before, and this legislature isn't the first debate around the previous times, but in this town of the Eukok Mojok, who handles 70% of the money they receive from the community. For the top, the three Aldudi and the council, 30% of that. The total is 15,600 million. It's a lot of money. It's incredibly important to record a major leader, and I think it's the greatest merit of this fun, that all the institutions have been lined up for this purpose. That's important to a small town. In the end our resources are not boundless, our resources are fine, they're not infinite, they're not infinite, they're not infinite, they're not infinite, and they're not infinite, they're not infinite, they're not infinite, they're not infinite, and they're a primary goal behind you, it's important, and that's what's done now, two years ago, three years and a year ago. And political conditions might have been exactly the same, but in places the principal deputies or mayors of the place were not present, and even then there was or got some agreements. Of course, we were saying that accepting budgets was important for all institutions, after a negotiation process, of course not for free, but that's what you did, and this time, too. What principal object has the President explained today? In the first place, a clean bet to get out of this economic crisis, an strategic, an economy to refresh this economic activity, and begin to produce a job at the same time. And at the same time, to maintain all the public services which society has necessary and necessary to them, with dignity: all the politics that offer education, health, and not social protection. Our crude PIB or internal product, i.e. we have the ability to build the whole of this society in a year, almost 65,000 PIB. Well, in the budget, I'd like to say that we're almost a quarter in control, and politics means that we can't represent society by sucking up their activity, but that paper which the society needs to help, strengthen, and act as institutions do. I'm not going to mention any more facts, but if that's our PIB, we know how much that per capita is supposed to be in the population, and almost 29,000-300,000 euros in this interval, of those percentages of Europe, we are on the top of 22 points. Navarre 16 points higher. If you have considered the size of our economy, and have known our society, and by their own hand, the leadership, the leader you can't see in this full correction, it's real, because it finally puts society behind those great lines, not with convictions, but with conviction. It is, therefore, from the hands of social justice and the caprice of the people, supported by health, education, and social protection, that the development and employment of the economy has been, and is the principal end. And here I would like to make a special allusion to society, about society, and not to society. There are people involved in this whole process, and that has to be mentioned, why we're going to have to be involved here in the budget, but we know that these budgets have to come back to society at last, offer services, repair tools. And here we must mention that the contribution of the people and the consolidation of the community are extraordinary, that the commitment to the institutions described by the Basques is extraordinary. And what compromise such a people and such a nation the people have. And I think that there is a union which cannot be denied between institutions and people. Let's go, if you like, to practical matters, why, after hearing your speech, I won't say that you've made things very ugly, and things really are wrong in some respects, but I don't think we're going to lose our perspective. And when I see what such a discourse, such a theory, is afterwards applied in the Presidency, I find a certain remarkable difference. I can't sew both, it's not a rocket, why if we speak seriously, and call each thing by its name, and we're studying it purely and clearly, for example, a high-speed train and the rest, if you're going to do things right, you and if you're talking about these concrete corrections, you're making the budget project that's been introduced by M.H.3. You said, with Socialists, I don't know what cheap deal we made in '32. The direct lines you proposed, the divisional straights, if they are serious, suppose 0.3. Because, well, it's easy to say, "350 million, high-speed train, we'll use well for what politics," but this isn't serious. Three-fifty or whatever it is, it's either a train or a railway train, I'm sorry. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no; if the train is to be made, you can subtract from it. It's not serious. Well, you're going to me, why the Ark of one of those last ones had to offer over $600 million preparation or a scholarship to the Presupuists. Well, in that way of seriousness, where are the sources of money? You put some needs in these corrections, and you say that we're going to make subtraction and what department. 20 million from security and another 13,2 from 99. Those are the incomes. And if you don't guarantee your income, how will you manage your expenses? So, these budgets aren't so bad, so why EH Collect proposes a change of third-to-three. We can go to the division, but that's the reality. From 395 million, we know what our presence is, really, 130. If there's no Demagogy, that's really the right and right way to make the right correction. Austerity policy. Bottom obedience. Well, you also said you could spend what you have. You can spend what you have. If you ask for credit, like any family, you must be able to answer. So we know what deficit is: the difference between money and expenses. You mentioned taking or doing some crazy thing. Sharpness. Some of us have different concepts... I'm not going to do an exercise here, 2012, 2013, 2014, at the time of the Gipudunian Aldundia in the day of the Prejudome, to mention what Dietius said in the motivation. You know as well as I do, as well as I do. That at last you have applied your debt and defence with great severity. And that you have fulfilled the orders which came from Europe and the Spanish Government, not only in the parliament, but in all the councils. We know, therefore, what is in the policy of election, what is at stake, and what are really and what are the means. You can't spend what you don't have. If there's a chance of landing, but if you get paid punctually, it'll have to be punctually for the stream to go through. You could be crazy about investing, but there's a limit. And it was in those boundaries that I was in before and even this time. You said that in tax policy and tax policy, data, symposium, there's another size and another response. Well, there was an exception, and consequently the revenues were increased, because this attorney policy had been arranged not with your votes, but because at first the Social Party, the Socialists, and then the Poptular Party, had first introduced the tax of great fortunes and fortunes. And this very great game has been given you, that is to say, if the revenues in the gym are to four hundred million, we mean 66 million, not more, ingression, but that the number has been, and at this very moment, after a change, and in the former case they made projections in the gymia, which is perhaps a difference from a much more just impossis. We'll see what the data looks like. But look what a huge game they give you, $66 million, within 4.100 million. And it was the state of attorney, after different trials, from the Jest Party and the Social Party's first concert. That's it. It's our reality. It's said whether these strategic bets are made. That is to guarantee the means of recovery of economic activity. And they do. The data has suddenly been explained, and I will not mention it again, but at work, 276 million, and also the pymae and the micropyms, and the vermas, 1.8660. We say that we are here to aid economics, and we mention manufactures, and other sectors, of course, but chiefly industrial. And we still see a very weak commitment to industry from the hands of the Collectors. You have a certain limit in industry, which is in some measure a synonym for wealth, and there are certain people behind wealth, and if manufactures are rich, you explain in your own words, "After examination of the tax, at last we make politics for the great, the powerful, the rich, the champions." Well, companies in this town are absolutely indispensable, companies and workers, men and women. Why, in the end, that raw internal product, to produce that crude internal product of 65 billion, there's no other way, there's no other way. And in order to divide it, it must first be created. Investigation, development, innovation, interaction... 'he has mentioned it all the time.' But it adds. Isn't that what we want? Isn't that what the department chief wants? I'm sure it's not, but 13,7 million more. And in the area of the housing, you mentioned the data. It's obvious there's been an initial game and that the game is open. And it can't even be denied that there are other programs that go right in on the housing, including the AES. Finally, it's headed to 60% of the AES housing. Or the help known as the prop of the house. And that's another 83 million. And all this is about what I want to talk about, and it's all over, it's about the idea that you're making when you're a realist, that's also brave, why she knows there's going to be trouble during the year, of course, but it's marked by priority. And priorities are not marked for a moment, for a week or a year, but for a full legality. And what that strategy of the leadership supposes to the people is, I think, a question of commenting. I don't know why EH Collect hasn't introduced direct corrections, why there's no relationship, there's no experience. A whole political amendment is introduced to the EAB, the paper puts everything together, but then you go to the divisional corrections, and you stay at 3 p.m. So if that's the goal, connection, and application of your strategy, I believe that this legislature will back up today's full correction as well as any other corrections, but after having made the statement of the former and examined it, it is clear that the Basque Country has no reason at least to explain a full correction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u24	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the day of the answers, Mrs. Beital. It's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u25	Look, Mr. Egibar. To offer 20 million to the establishment of local employment, to offer 4 million to the employment plans, to offer the millions which we offer for the several and several districts which I have already given, it is evident that one thing is quite obvious: your example and ours are not the same. I'll tell you again, you guys have power. You've got debts and deficits to make an excuse, and you're still averse to that. And this may be said in a political discourse, in numbers, in a whole and partial correction. And we did. And besides, this Parliament has told you how to address the majority, and that is why we made an effort not only to tell the government what he was going to do, but we have no business with them tomorrow or the day after, or the day after, to vote with them the same demands, even with the Social Party. That's why we did this exercise, keeping some consistency, we'd give it a weekly or so between the reflection of that proposition, decision, and later on in the budget. That's the only way I can get rockets. And clarro, you come here saying that you are the leaders of consistency, if you are by any means the leaders of this house and of different institutions in this country, as if we had always done the same thing in all institutions. And you know that's not true. And I have no longer put myself into the matter of debt, what is not to be said in a presutype. The point is whether we make restrictions with him in numbers or not. And you know as well as I do that there haven't been so many solutions in the gym when RGI turned back at 7% and found compensation. When those in the state who have dependence took less precautions to collect in Spain, they're making more than 30% of the Gipuz. And even with any title to say how you can control the debt, if you help with the division you're willing to put it in the person's need. And that's really what's going to photograph your politics and show what your politics are. And what I have here meant is, as a people, the subject of debt, the question of deficit, how it should be conducted. He's committed to the Basque Country as well as the Union to get wetted. And in this way it is not only that we should think of debt and defence, but must first confirm the priority. And clarro, when you say you say that the support of public services, they come to me with dignity, because all the data that you have in mind, and the amount of thousands of people that RGI have left out, is to try to make me look like fools, but that the basic services are guaranteed to convince the people who are suffering, because they are better than elsewhere, because they are so much the same, that they have such a degree to laugh in the face of thousands and thousands of people who are going so ill. Not me, because I'm probably a lot better than them in the end. But reality and data are not catastrophists. But do you think this is acceptable to a society? You think they can relax? Do you think that they are obstinate in the nices we follow, in proportion as numbers are rounded, grown, and fattened? Logic says so. I know what makes sense is the most commonly used thing. But the sense says if the numbers get worse, something has to change. I don't know about 10, 20, 100 percent, something has to be changed. There can't be an alternative to continuing the same path. And that's what we're proposing! In the first place, make sure that there are these basic services and reductions which have been made, and have not been turned from 2012. We cannot, therefore, say that even if a few millions of them go up to the Presupuest, this is overthrown. It's not true, they're perpetuated. And once that's guaranteed, let's think about how we can make a better future, but not leaving anyone on the way, not letting anyone out of the way, not leaving anyone out of the way without resource. And we're not talking about charity, we're talking about justice. He gets it and each one gets it when it's his turn, and then it's time for him to contribute. And I can't even say that we have something with industry. I've already remarked that I+D+is down and that it's unacceptable. We're under 2% of the European fairest minimum. We're going down! And industry isn't the greatest industrialist. The small and the medium are the majority. And the Basque People of Union, no doubt. And in enterprises, wealth is not only produced by corporations, but by workers. And therefore when they are born, they are both hand by hand, even when they are parted. And you can't do it all on the back and don't do it for the company's charge. And let the rich continue to charge more, and let the workers consume the full charge of what we have to do as a society. That's the reality we have. And don't tell me that we've changed only one tax in the gym until you made a complete counterreform, a lot of taxes in that intermediate document, not just one! So if we only changed one, you'd change one. And you managed to back down the steps the Social Party moved forward. Sadly, for the Gipuz. Because it's good that we all get along if it's good for society, otherwise it's not good. And today we shall see the difference between you and us in the gym. I read it in the press. And look, it's very significant that the noticiency between your example and the inequality of our model in today's press. I have two. The division of the Gipulia is one, not in its own forum, but in the time of business, but secretly, by means of the assembly of the Supreme Assembly, which today by a correction is intended to pay taxes to the great revenues, and in this case to repay the sportsmen of the elite. There's a measure to be proposed in the gym, as we call it, "Studillo." And there's a woman who has three children, 22, 20 years and 18 years, who lives in a villa in the A rental, who's terribly paid for 800 euros lately, who won't be able to face the rent of 300 euros, the community, because this Parliament also decided that when she paid 30%, the community's expense should be inside. But the government continues to ignore Parliament. And he can't afford it, because you'll tell me what's left to feed his three children every day, he can't afford it objectively. And the rental has only been read to the courts, now has a sentence, and if things don't get settled, then it's going out on 18th Street. Is this how you keep decent social services? Is this the example of the Jestzaan Party? The rent is home, but if you can't afford it, we're sorry, you go to the red street and live under a bridge. I never told Mr. Toña this before, but I once told Mr. Aburto. It's your alternative, or you've got a way of paying, or you're going under the bridge, or you eat, or you pay for your house. And look, I understand that this woman has first eaten, so would I. And that's the alternative we give him? We have these two examples: "And you shall take from the rich as much as you can, and as much as you can, and as much as you can do to the poor. What alternative does this woman have, except that the Administration is a little more instinctive? What he does not admit is that he has a debt with the rental? I admit that, too, he has a debt with the rental, that's obvious. But is it possible for this person to pay for it? No. What's the answer as society? As a government, what is the answer we all answer? Is he supposed to stay in the street? I believe that they are very simple and simple examples, but of the reality which they suffer in their everyday life; and I believe that they very much expose themselves to the fact that some go away and others on their side. Some of them will have their priority in debt and defence, and we don't. We think we ought to take care of them, because they are instruments of use, that we must measure them, and that we need a road-sheet, and that we must make it among all of them, but that the privilege may be clean, and not leave them in the way. And I think that's where we have great peculiarities. Then you mentioned earlier that about a tax he's barely managed to get a few minor facts from Gipus. Well, you know better than I do that there's a gym at the rate of unemployment, that Gipus got a point down in poverty for the last two years, and that's also the most beautiful of all. You won't confess, I know. It's logical. But you can't tell me that we have the same example, and that it gives the same results. I am permitted to defend different examples here, and I always say so; but let us at least say what example each of us stands for, let us come and say what we ought to say. And I don't think we've ever made a great deal of tax policy. We wanted to apply specific tax policy. We did it when we could, sometimes it wasn't possible, and, well, you guys made a new counterreform. And I'd like to mention it at last, look, I didn't get the trunk today. You took it out. And there's something to do with what I said earlier, because we think everything's connected. I mean, we need the real tax policy. We need a bold reform to be real, which will really answer and confirm the means. Money is finite, but there's money. So we have to meet for departure. And, of course, the Arkbank would have to offer a significant portion of the resources to develop public policies too, of course. We don't go back to it, a year ago we thought, we'll think later. And we also think, that if this government had really the political leadership, it would have been established in it for a long time, and what it did not, and what it did not go on, and what it did, and here it was accused of demagogue to others. If he did such things, and he was willing to take the lead of a journey around the debt and around the deficit, we'd see signs that he really wanted to make a leader-popolitan, to want to change the priorities, and really to find a future based on social justice. And the Basque People will be gathered there. For, I say again, our object is to go on as a people, without comparison with those who are outside, we want to live badly abroad, e!show, but to keep ourselves in our own country, and defend ours as a people. And at least, Mr. Egibar will always be with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. After the answers, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u27	I won't say "right," but you don't talk right when you talk about your games for growth, and you don't talk about subtraction. You've been a mayor and you know, as I said before, the numbers must square. And if you've got the debt controlled and you've got the deficit limitations, you've got the income and expenses. Or don't you? Yeah. And those 361 million you make, if they're not real, what are you doing? Demagogy, fraud. Technically, it's so and that's politically demagogue. You don't say 361 million and "I don't have any more to do with this and this." You can't do that. And in the end, your alternative is 0.3,3. Take the numbers from the position you want, put them all down, whatever you like, but it's an alternative to 0.53. And you mentioned it, too, how could you not? That's the prosecutorship. What I said is, why before you came to the gym, there were others, and then there were others, and then there were others. Persistent has always had a development like other lands. But as for the prosecution, if this reform has been profitable, it is not your model, but what others have decided, that you wanted to know nothing about others. And since you're a patriot party, you didn't even remember what Agraban was, what was in Biscaia or what was in Navarre. In Navarro, they're going to accept another reform in December. We'll have to find out what's on the table in Navarre and what they have on it. Or aren't we neighbors? And you'll have to know what's next to you. And this, which is known as harmony, is what we proposed to you, and you would not. It would spread from Gipulia to the four winds. That was your strategy and this strategy failed, just like he failed around the Arkbanks. Where's the chest in private hands, sold in the hands of interest? Where is he? You finally create an image, you feed that image, and you think you're right! That's not true! And it's likely that it's a little overdone in politics, but it's not generally the best strategy. And you used to mention the models, didn't you? I think on the way to the credibility, to explain a project that might be capable of being capable of being capable, I'm afraid you still have to make a road, to be convincing. Why the exercise you've done here, when some incomes are fixed, when they don't exist, and then we'll propose a few games to do the expense, that's not sterile; it's the lack of intelligence. What do you take people for a fool? How are you going to spend a money you don't have? If you don't have one, just a little respect. Then you say, "Maybe we'll see you on the way, if you take a few steps." In your full correction, you say, "un model de transicion" is required. It's in the line. And in the article written by one of your spokesman, and by an example, if it be he who has made the article, he must at least know that there are no consumers in the Government, there are departments; and let him look at the weight of the debt as of what size it is before writing it. Then we say "modelo de transicion." And maybe, there's a key. "We know where we come from, well, we can't tell where we come from and we don't know where we're going to look for models." I hope you don't have the model of the Basque Country gathering in CUP. I mean it. You're getting excited...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u28	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u29	Well, the debate is in your house. Or I'm the only one who reads in your debates. You've got a huge production. Some say that an article on a Sunday is also very good, where EH Collect has made the transition to CUP, Arnuldo Observatory made three sides, that three against which this exercise is a different thing, that you can't reach or return to the time of CUP. Well, you two have to discuss it. What I see is that a lot of people, between you and the proposal, have seen CUP's axis as they please, and I don't wish it to be EH Collect. They say, "What were you, where are you?" and above all, where are you going? Guess, guess what. Why we'll have to discuss everything else. But here's another question. When it's said, and presides are also witnesses of it, when you say it every year, what's the first thing? New country, country, nation or system? Isn't that what you're arguing about? Then the envelope went on. Why the question is stated. I'm going to finish. Maybe I'll give you another three minutes, directly to you, if you like." It's not credible that it's a direct correction to all of you, because it's based on a political intention. If that's what I want to talk about again, it's starting from fun, it's already accepted by Bilbo City, we're going to get the rents and a lot of councils. And I'd like to mention it, and a clear reference, a direct one, and especially to the President, if anyone had been persistently looking for an agreement from the first moment, the president was in the middle of the square. And not now, not this year's budget, but it started three years ago in this work, and it succeeded obstinately and managed to face all the economic resources which most of the institutions have in this country. And that's the leadership share. And when an institution, however, has not the absolute majority, it must act directly, negotiate, share, and, from this time of our time, proceed to the guidance of the "Male" and the President, it is reality in all the institutions. And that's worth it. And now that it's the day of the euphorium, and I'm also glad we've both had our opinion in nothing. And today we have sung in the morning, but we shall not sing, but it is manifest that we have a challenge, as men who know, and who know how to speak of eucalyptus, as they do not know, and as another song says: "Start from home and out of the street, from the street to the house, a new law has been set up in Basque Country." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u30	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Next, we will discuss the correction of the whole Missatha-UPyD team. Mr. Maneiro, his representative, has the power to prevent the full correction of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u31	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, all of you, counselors. Firstly, I would like to wish an early recovery to the absent adviser, I hope that as soon as he can recover and be with us to continue discussing budgetary issues or any other issues of interest, therefore, a strong embrace and a lot of encouragement to Mr Gazagaetxebarria. Obviously, so far, the People's Party and EH Bildu have put forward their arguments, the reasons why they are proposing their amendment to the whole, the reasons why they consider that we should vote against this draft budget and, from there, of course, their arguments and their reasons. Obviously, there are points in common, there are points on which we agree with one of these political parties, in some cases we agree with both, and in other cases we do not agree with either, but in any case, I want to explain in the best possible way what are the reasons why UPyD presents this amendment to the whole. I believe that UPyD's arguments are consistent, they are well known, they are basically the same arguments that we have argued on other occasions to table other amendments to the whole or to vote against other budgets, and what they intend to prove, and what I will try to prove during my speech, is that, in fact, there is a political and also budgetary alternative to the project of the Basque Nationalist Party, that is, there is an alternative to this draft budgets. Budgets could have been drawn up other than those submitted to us. And I am going to explain these reasons, therefore, as I say that I believe that UPyD is willing to demonstrate its consistency, we are going to say the same things about which we have said in previous years, and we are going to defend the same principles that I believe none of us here will be surprised to see. This draft budget is the basis of a certain political project that we do not share, it is the basis of the political project of the Basque Nationalist Party, as it could not otherwise be, and this is obviously the first reason to request its return to the Basque Government. It is also obvious that the Basque Nationalist Party has found the Socialist Party in its partner in order to move forward on its own project, not only budget, but also political. They will have to explain the reasons, but it is clear that today the Basque Socialist Party has become the palm of the Basque Nationalist Party. It is a draft budget, and some other spokesman has said, that it does not change anything at all, that leaves everything as it is, that it crosses hands with the situation in which we find ourselves, especially the precarious situation in which thousands of people find themselves and that it simply decides to wait. Because, members of the government, there are thousands of people in Euskadi who are having a really bad time and today in the press we could look at one of those examples: Mari Luz a woman with three children who could stay on the street as a result of her economic situation and because she cannot afford that social floor granted by the Basque Government. It is a simple example, but as this example there are many. Therefore, the first thing we have to say on this issue is that there are thousands and thousands of Basque citizens who are having a bad time, and therefore, the first obligation of this Government is to be sensitive to and recognize this situation, and to take appropriate measures to improve people's lives. However, this is a project of conformist and continuousist budgets, which does not contribute anything to create decent, stable and quality jobs. It is an insensitive draft budget, by the way, like the Government that has prepared it. Insensitive and powerless. These are consistent and conservative precedents, heartless, ambitious, without any new contributions, which change nothing, and support the political projects of the EAJ. It is a draft budget which is based on what we already have, the same institutional framework, the same taxation, the same oversized public sector, the same budget headings as in previous years, the same or very similar amounts, the same recipes, and therefore a draft budget which will yield the same results as hitherto. What do these Budgets contain? Zero reforms. Zero ambition. Zero innovative talent. Zero news. Zero surprises. The Basque Government implements or intends to implement the same recipes that ensure, as I say, the same results; the Basque Government makes the same speech as those who claim that everything remains essentially the same; the Government shows the same insensitivity to the situation in which thousands of people find themselves. In this project are the same consolidated cuts as in previous years, the same refusal to strengthen the welfare state. The same contempt as always for Basque citizens. Zero innovation. Zero sensitivity. Zero imagination. Zero reformer or reformer. The typical draft budgets of the typical government that prefers not to touch anything and keep everything as it is, including the consolidated cuts and everything that benefits friends of the Basque Nationalist Party. This government wants to leave everything as it is. Constraints, but no change or reform. Therefore, a continuous and deeply conservative project. The typical draft budgets of a government that defends its own interests instead of defending the interests of citizens. The typical project of a government lacking in ideas and ambition, the typical project of an affluent government. It is the typical budget project of bourgeois rulers, without innovative talent and without vitality. The typical of an apocado government, without talent, without ideas, and deeply conservative, which in this particular case has found its crutch in the palm trees of the Basque Socialist Party, which in fact in previous years had its crutch in the People's Party. It is a draft budget that is fraught with the insensitivity, incapacity and conservatism of the Government and the PNV, and its refusal to reform and modernise Euskadi, and its refusal to push forward the reforms that Euskadi needs. In this respect, who supports these Budgets, supports the conservatism and immobility of this indomitable Basque Government and obviously also supports, who supports this draft budget, the political project itself of the Basque Nationalist Party. The pending reforms, i.e. those that have not been carried out, are a burden on and a burden on these budgets, and the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party are obviously responsible for this. For years, the reform of the tax system was avoided in order to make it fairer and more progressive, and when that reform was carried out at the end of 2013, that fiscal reform agreed with the Basque Socialist Party was not ambitious enough, it was short. And so it was not progressive enough or progressive enough or just enough. At the end of 2013, the Commission to Combat Fiscal Fraud was set up to draw up the Joint Plan to Combat Fiscal Fraud annually, but all the necessary measures to address this serious problem are still not in place. Concrete steps remain to reform the institutional framework and to reduce the duplication, inefficiencies and inequalities it generates. Although the socialist proposal for the reform of the LTH has recently been taken into consideration, the fact is that there will not even be time in the remaining months to achieve the reform of the Historical Territories Act. And not only this, but we do have recent news of the humiliating appeal of the Bizkaia Provincial Council, which will not only delay the debate on the Historical Territories Act, but will make it impossible for its reform to pass this legislature. And I think this is due to a political pact between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party not to reform that law either. It is therefore late, when, in fact, there is no time for it to be carried out. And this has even been recognized by some of the leaders of the Basque Socialist Party. Therefore, this is another of those pending reforms: the reform of the Basque institutional framework. We continue to say that it is absurd for a community of only 2 million inhabitants to have four parliaments, four governments, three fiscal policies, 251 municipalities. If this reform were to be carried out, it is obvious that we would have more resources to allocate to the real needs of the citizens, more resources to strengthen the welfare state, productive investments, R & D+i, education, health, culture, aid for reconciliation, support for families, the creation of stable, decent and quality jobs. More money to be used for economic recovery and wealth creation. However, the Government does not move a finger to push a single one of these reforms, nor does it move a finger to push forward the reform of the corporate public sector, which should be drastically resized and reduced. As I say, if the previous reforms, in short, related to taxation, the fight against fraud, the reform of the institutional framework or the public corporate sector had been carried out, we would have more resources to meet the real needs of the citizens and, therefore, the draft budgets would be different. If these reforms had been made, we would have more public money to strengthen our welfare, and to produce more and better employments. We would have more money to strengthen the welfare state; to devote it to health, education, social spending, social emergency aid, family and work reconciliation aid, scholarships, English, improvement of educational facilities, improvement of hospitals and all kinds of facilities. More for productive investments, more for R & D+i. More to provide better public services, to improve employment, to also improve environmental protection; to fight more and better against macho violence; to fight poverty, inequality. More money to make real public rental housing possible; more money for development cooperation. If those reforms had been carried out, we would have more money to actually devote it to the needs of the citizens. However, it is intended to leave everything as it is. This is, let us say, the common denominator of the last Euskadi governments: to leave everything basically as it is, that nothing changes, so that, in fact, public money will be distributed, basically, between you or those you protect. I am saying that this is something that we have, in fact, been claiming for years and will continue to claim. In this respect, our partial amendments are perfectly consistent. They pick up all this stuff we're proposing. That is why we are proposing more money for social emergency aid, 8 million; more to combat energy poverty, 500,000 euros; more for reconciliation of work and family life, 5 million; more for Lanbide, 7 million; more for rental housing, 19 million; more for combating sexist violence, 300,000 euros; more for primary care, 18 million; hospitals, 16 million; health research, 3 million; development cooperation, 11 million; children and primary education, 18 million; secondary education, 10 million; university education, 20 million; etc., etc., etc., etc. By making those reforms and by deleting or reducing items that we consider superfluous or, in any case, much less necessary than these, that money, indeed, could be allocated to these issues which we do consider to be absolutely essential. Because, as I say, it is about allocating resources to what is truly important, rather than allocating them to financing non-priority matters or to supporting unnecessary institutions or superfluous entities. It is therefore clear that there is an alternative. Not only a political alternative to the Basque Nationalist Party, but a budgetary alternative to this draft budget of the Basque Nationalist Party. A much better, much more ambitious, much more social and, of course, much more important budget proposals could have been drawn up for productive investment. Indeed, we will have almost EUR 300 million more than in the previous financial year, but, as has been said here, much of that money is intended to meet the debt commitments and also part of the staff costs of officials, due to legal obligation. The rest is distributed among the different departments, but there is no relevant novelty in relation to what has been done in other exercises. There is no more innovation than the simple square of the accounts. Nothing relevant to addressing the increase in poverty, nothing relevant to addressing energy poverty, nothing relevant to addressing the increase in social inequalities that continue to exist in Euskadi, nothing relevant to addressing precarious employment, nothing relevant to the future of young people and to promoting decent, stable and quality youth employment. Nothing different, nothing new, nothing exciting. It is, therefore, more of the same. It is, indeed, the usual. Unemployment, youthless, poverty, inequality, prevarication in front of these problems, government doesn't do anything. And to overcome these problems or take them naturally is a huge political irresponsibility and shows very little social sensitivity, however much the Government repeats, by the way, every year and regardless of who is in the Government, that budgets are social, the truth is that we turn our backs on these serious problems again, because reforms and measures could be put in place to better address these problems. However, it is not done. And the Government naturally assumes these very serious problems and raises nothing to solve them. It can be seen that members of the Government do not or do not consider them relevant. Said the lehendakari we've known difficult years. It is not that we have experienced difficult years, it is that there are thousands of Basque citizens who are living today very complicated hours and days. And therefore, the first mission of any Government would be to meet those needs. The crisis we have not left behind. There are thousands of Basque citizens who are in a precarious, very difficult situation and, therefore, our obligation also, as a party to the opposition, is to observe and analyse this draft budget and to put forward very concrete measures to address these needs in particular. There has been talk of Lanbide, who is making a mockery of today's rates of labour intermediation. It doesn't bring anything, it practically doesn't bring anything. And this is the responsibility of the government. We can be told that, in fact, other employment agencies in other autonomous communities, even, have labour intermediation rates that are lower than those in Lanbide. No; but it's not about comparing us to the worst in the class, it's about comparing us to those who do things better. And at that point, not only on this issue, but on many other issues, the government should also be required to look at what is being done in Europe and what decisions are being taken in Europe. And certainly, the situation in Lanbide today is deeply regrettable, and the responsibility lies with the Government. The things we are talking about are the responsibility of the Government, they fall within its competence. The Basque Autonomous Government has a multitude of competencies, and we ask the Government to account for how it develops and executes those competencies. We are not, therefore, talking about cuts or decisions made by the Spanish Government, which could indeed be discussed, and we have spoken long and hard when we have discussed other issues. We are talking about what this Government can do on the basis of its competences, and all that I have proposed could be done by the Government, but it does not. There are therefore many reasons why we call for this draft budget to be returned to the Government. There are more reasons apart from the reasons I have put forward. The social cuts promoted during recent years are consolidated and the welfare state is limited, while millions of euros of public money are allocated to unnecessary or non-priority actions. Development cooperation is targeted at €43 million, 3 more than in 2015, but far from the €50.6 million of 2012, thus infringing the spirit and letter of the Development Cooperation Act. Basque delegations are maintained abroad, budgeted at just over EUR 2.5 million, when neither their existence nor their work is justified. Public money is earmarked for the promotion of Basque in France or Navarre. It is intended for the Institute of Memory 1 and a half million euros, whose constitution and objectives we have criticized. The Innovation Fund, which reached €65 million in 2012, remains in 2015 at the same level as in the last two years, €37 million. Not enough effort is made in R+D+i. In scholarships, in innovation, in entrepreneurship, in internationalization, in technological centres, in support of trade and in support of tourism. While maintaining unnecessary, superfluous and unproductive spending. This could be done more, but it is decided not to do more, not to promote the necessary reforms and to continue to allocate public resources to matters that are not priorities. Social emergency aid is budgeted at EUR 22 million, an amount that will not be sufficient to meet all the demands, which this Parliament has repeatedly demanded of this government. In addition, the 7 % cut in social benefits which the Socialist Government validated during the last parliamentary term with the support of the People's Party is extended for the fifth consecutive year. In addition, the Basque Government, both in its political action and in its budgetary formulation, despises the implementation of an ambitious public housing policy for rent. And it is certainly politically very deploring that, having announced by the Basque Government that the adoption of the Housing Act would force social cuts and a budget allocation of EUR 750 million over the next 10 years, it is true that the housing budget, compared to the previous year, has barely increased by EUR 2 million. And this is a fraud against society. And a trick. Let us remember what the Government said at the door of the adoption of that Housing Act, which was going to provoke little less than a budget crack, which would have to drive social cuts. And now we note that in the draft budgets, it is only increased by EUR 2 million. What are we left with? Is the Government prepared to enforce the Housing Act? Or don't you have that disposition? The necessary effort is not made with regard to infrastructure and works in educational establishments or with regard to teacher training, while huge amounts of public money are allocated to the Basque-Lunishment, more than EUR 100 million in 2016, more than EUR 2.1 billion in the last 30 years, not to mention the contributions of the different municipalities and the different outlaws. Or the EITB, EUR 120 million. There is not the necessary effort being made with regard to English in public education, which, by the way, demonstrates the courteousness of views and the obtuse nationalism of the Basque Nationalist Party, which thinks that promoting English is attacking Basque, when experience shows just the opposite. However, I say that the Government, if we look at this draft budget, decides to despise English. If we compare this project with the 2009 draft budgets, we see that more than 200 million euros are budgeted in Education than then. If we compare this project with the 2009 draft budgets, we see that almost 100 million euros less are budgeted in Health than then. In addition, there is a heading which is, in short, worthy of analysis, a heading of advertising and propaganda endowed with 120 million euros. Mrs. Gorospe, do you know which one I'm referring to? An advertising and advertising item with an amount of 120 million euros. Yes, EITB. EITB, which today is an instrument at the service of Basque nationalism, at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party and at the service of the Basque Government and which, as recently, this week, has demonstrated and demonstrated Covite, uses and makes its own the interpretative frameworks of the Abertzale left. EUR 120 million for EITB, so that EITB will continue to promote the thesis of the Basque Nationalist Party. We obviously want to have public television and radio, but they have to be of quality, which cannot be an instrument at the service of nationalism. And that is another of the many reasons why we are presenting this amendment as a whole. In addition, we consider the budget allocation for primary and hospital care to be insufficient and the allocations for health research to be equally inadequate. In addition, items relating to health works and infrastructure are slowed down or postponed or insufficiently provided. Therefore, a good number of reasons to present this amendment as a whole. Obviously the Basque Nationalist Party will defend its draft budgets and attack the amendment to the entire UPyD. But what is clear with our speech and with our amendment to the whole, and also with the partial amendments that we have tabled, is that there is an alternative to the Basque Nationalist Party, and there is an alternative to this draft budget that has been presented to us and I have listed each of these reasons. With the utmost consistency and defending the principles that UPyD has always defended. So the alternative to EAJ is possible. Things can be done differently, if there is political will. It's good issues for the Socialist EAJ and Party, but it's very bad for the Basque Society. It is a draft budget that consolidates social cuts, fails to meet the real needs of citizens, does not adequately distribute the destination of public money and does not serve to stimulate economic activity and create stable and quality jobs. It is the typical budget proposal of an indolent and unambitious government that basically seeks nothing to change. Finally, for all this we call for your return with the conviction that a political and budgetary alternative to the Basque Nationalist Party is indeed possible. You have found the docile company of the Basque Socialist Party, which has definitely become the palm trees of the Basque Nationalist Party, but regardless of that it is shown that this draft budget is not the one that interests Basque citizens. And it is perfectly clear that there is a political and budgetary alternative to the Basque Nationalist Party. It is therefore perfectly demonstrated that there is life beyond the Basque Nationalist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u32	[[Write error]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u33	Thank you again, Mrs. President. For the first time, as has been said, it is the day of the eucasure, and to-day the new Basques are congratulated and praised; and my personal reputation is for you, Gorka, because you have learned to make an effort and made your efforts to keep our relations at rest. I congratulate you for what you have done as a new Basque. It's hard for me to thank you for hearing your speech, your speech, your speech, your action, and your statement, don't agree. And your speech is really hurtful, it's really harmful, I dare say it's a malicious speech with eucatitude. You, in your full correction, between the budget reviews made by Red MU MUMI, that's the one, you criticize all the games that are associated with the company's company. You think they're to be removed, either from the media that are addressed to the Basque itself or from the radio show in the Euskal radio, which is generally connected with the Basque Sea. It's clear that we, and the Jelt Party of Euk, and a mad-headed Jelt, and the budget thatUPyD would have made, in that sense, and in many others it's quite different. You'd get rid of it, and we're justified by making Euscara's budget increase to 6,4%, because we think it's absolutely necessary. If I congratulate you, and congratulate all the new Basques, and thank you for all our efforts, that would be impossible if economic resources were not to be used from different public administrations. An effort, a citizen's effort, to establish the administration's commitment to the resources, so that it can be made possible, and everyone's work to revive and encourage the use of the peace. That's all we need. That's why you'll never take away the money that's in that game at all. No way at all. Following, your party, in the full correction of the party you represent, and with the proposals you made here today, you asked us not to compare with the worst in the class, European, you said. Then I'll give you the details compared to Europe. As to the poverty of the poor, we have in the Eucade, Euskade, %2,7% lower points than that of Europe; as to poverty, 40% less than the average, which is called "Sincidappos paradors," the average average of the European Union, 5,7 smaller points; Coefente de Gini. Basque 27%, European 30,5%. "Nindiandice S80/S20," which is the last two, the Basque, the 5% of the European Union. I've mentioned them before in health. Euscataian experience, 82,2%; the average of the European Union, 79%, three years more here. And I've told you about the "Mulidad Infanti," given to Monsieur Damborena, and the average of Euscandine, 2,7, and European average, 4%.1. And first, the data of education, it is true, I have compared them to the Spanish, which is now compared with Europe; "Tasa de forsakeno escorhar tempano." Euskadin, 7,2; Europe, 11.1. "Poblacion con nivel de écacion superior." Euskadin, 48,9%, and Europe, 37,9%. We are not compared to the worst of the class. We compare them to the whole of our circle, and carefully look to those which are better than we, to the improvement of the forces, the forthales of their system, and we, if possible, to represent them in our own example, and to improve our own example. And all this concerns us. We, I've mentioned it before, we won't say we're happy about this story. Even better, we care about it, and that's why we proclaim our own model. An example of eucalypice to protect society. An example of eucalypice to protect society. This corrects 75% of all resources for health, education, both universal, and the most urgent wants. That's our model. And if it had to be improved, other places by model, it'll be ready for that. But let us not criticize him, as you do, Mr. Maniro, who is not a foundation, but a good example, which is a good example, and has a great deal of difficulty in public institutions. You've been saying "Se podría tener un presupusto mucho más social," and you know better than you know what the effort is. And you said that budget was conservative. Consider how conservative it will be that one of the most progressive parts of the state has been used as models to lead to other Spanish communities the means and proposals which are here. That's our model, and we need to be proud. And we have to keep working. You said, "You're just saying, "You're a "un Gobierno indolente." How can you say that, Mr. Maniro? You know, if you're having a piece of fun, that's the ability to work, it's the commitment to work. And he's always ready to get better. He's always ready to get better. Look, what's around you, if it's better, let us improve ourselves. You've made different plans. "Este presupusto es la base de un Proyecto neacionator." And we've always said, as you've mentioned, that the whole correctional of that statement has taken place in the past two years, so it's obviously not the budget you would have introduced, and that it's not the way it's going to be, it's not the way it's going to be, you know. Our priorities, or the prerogatives of one of the Jestric Party's Governments, are entirely different from yours. But one thing must be clear. The budgets introduced to the fun of the public are making a difference. The last sociometer just came out last week, and the public cares, you know what they are? 82%, problems relating to the commercial work, 17% economic problems, 14% political and political states, political conflicts. Therefore I say that the planning and the attention of the people are very regular. This is why all the power is made to help those who are evil, and therefore all the effort is to create employment and create wealth in the Basque Country. And that's why, as Egibare said before, the effort he's made under President Urkullu's leadership, to get stability and to get a political deal, because the third care, the third care of the community, is: political leaders and political status and political conflict. Let's agree, we're asked to get a deal. That's what they're asking us to do, and that's what's all about it. You always mention "reforms pendentes." When you say that Euscal's institutional structure is to be rationalized, you really mean to destroy it, the model of pure Spanish affluent, all right, all right, we always say, you'd take him to Madrid or take him to Spain, and we'd bring all our jurisdictions here. So, in that, we can't unite. You're saying that all the companies and public institutions are so gloomy, so dark, and all the information, all the same, you've got everything on the budget project. All the same. And yet, if you do not see it, the problem is yours, which is not darkness, you will have some sort of vision, or, as I said before, you would not hear, that you would not read anything that does not make a speech of you. And because of the struggle with the tax exchange and the tax system change, you know better than you know, we agreed on the tax system here in 2013. And that's done, it's done, and a committee has been created for this very purpose, a plan has been made too much for it. And you've heard all of this because the members of that committee are here to report all the information and answer all the questions we have to ask. Expenses, reductions. Well, there's no reduction in all the budgets of 2015, as we said before, the game. Is there no more cooperation development? There are over three million more, 43 million for the cooperation, seven to five percent increase. "Esquekadi's extrelations." In the answer to our first Lady Damboena's, we've made it clear. They're essential to us. I remember high school. It's a high school that this parliament has just created, and, as it is natural, a budget is absolutely necessary to coordinate public memory policies. Are you saying there's no promotion in the innovation? I don't know how you could say that when 13,7 million driving more than last year. 13,7 million, do you think that when you reach 51 million, it's not high? I don't know how you could say that. As to the assistance of social accidents. Look, there were 17,3 million in 2011, 2011 and 2012, 17 million, and at the 2016 Pre-Battal 20 million, we'll be able to reach 23 million. 6 million more in society emergency friendships. Compliments. Thirty, 2016, 31,4 million. There'll be more, and with what's this year, all the requests will be given an answer. Works and infrastructure in the schools. There are 47.8 million who are thus directed: 38.8 million major works, six to tune with the councils, and 3 to direct them to small works. Euskara. I've already told you how high it was, and it's quite essential to us. You mentioned EIB. You know, if we focus on the exploitation funding, it's $114 million that will be reported, 4 million more, if we remove the exploitation funding, investments, and oaths' support. Do you know how much money there was in 2009 for EITB? Klaro, you don't say it, you don't say it! 142 million! Now, 114. Even less 30 million! I think that we have given an answer to everything you have stated, that we shall not repeat what you have said in the course of the years before, nor shall we repeat what you have said to Monsieur Dubrene again. You mentioned "es insensible, indolente y tiene terios." We always defend consistency as a value, because what a lordship has to do is to present the law at first the program of government. The plan, as has been said before, was a plan for three years to refresh economic activity and create employment, follow that government program and plan. Eta hori da egin duena: Maintain and follow the route time set from the beginning, because that is what gives solidity to the action of a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u34	(Record error)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u35	Thank you, President. It's normal that we disagree, Mrs. Gorospe. It's normal. We're the opposition. We are against this government. We do not share many of their policies, we do not agree with the draft budgets that they have presented, as, in the same way, we did not agree with the draft budgets that have been presented in recent years. And hence our amendment to the whole, which comes to gather the same principles and ideas that we have presented, not only in the last exercises where the Basque Nationalist Party has ruled us, but even since 2009. Basically, we are saying, therefore, the same things and, in that sense, I think we are perfectly consistent. You guys keep your road map. We too maintain our road map, our principles, our criticisms and our demands, and this is, therefore, what we do. I do not think you can deny that this is a conservative, continuist budget proposal which does not introduce any new developments in what has been done in previous years, which does not change anything or basically anything in relation to what we already have, and which, therefore, basically seeks parliamentary stability, the calm parliamentary girl, approve the budgets of the Socialist Party of Euskadi and that everything goes on, more or less, as it is. This is what you basically want. He is outraged when I consider that we are faced with an indolent government. Of course, you say, "We do everything we can." I do not think, indeed, that we do not believe, that this Government does not do everything it should, and here is our whole argument in that amendment, in relation to all the pending reforms related to the institutional framework, the public corporate sector, the fight against tax fraud, taxation or the change in the priorities that this Government points out in its budget headings. We disagree, and we think that a lot of different things could be done to allocate public resources to what is truly important. We are convinced of this, and we have also shown it through our partial amendments. There are, therefore, each of those partial amendments which clearly demonstrate that what we are trying to do is basically to strengthen the welfare state – because the welfare state can be strengthened – and to encourage economic activity to create employment. A different draft budget could therefore have been drawn up. You attack me initially with the Basque matter. I didn't make any speeches against the Basque woman. I have recalled that in this draft budget we have allocated more than EUR 100 million for the promotion of the Basque region and I have recalled that in the last 30 years we have allocated more than EUR 2.1 billion, only from the Basque Government, and since public resources are scarce, what we say, we must also change priorities, we must allocate less to the Basque region, less to the EITB and more to strengthen the welfare state, more to education, more to health, more to social spending. That is what we are proposing. If you were to carry out the pending reforms in Euskadi, it would also turn out that there should be no reduction in the allocations for Euskaldunisation or others, but that, in fact, resources are scarce. And given what our resources are, we think that it is more interesting for Basque citizens to devote these resources to education, health, social spending and productive investments. That is our approach. They are concerned about the problems that exist in Euskadi, of course, and also with us, and hence the partial amendments that we have tabled, and hence the amendments that we have tabled in their entirety. That we're better off than in other autonomous communities? Obviously, we know perfectly well, we are better at many matters than the rest of the autonomous communities. But do we have room for improvement? A lot of room for improvement. Why don't we get better? Because the pending reforms are postponed and do not want to be carried out, and because the fate of public money is not properly prioritized. Therefore, you can compare what was done in Euskadi in recent years and what has been the evolution of certain headings, and not just that, if we do not speak specifically of certain headings which we consider to be clearly insufficient. And I've given some data. Development cooperation, far from the amounts devoted in the 2012 financial year. I have reminded you of some of the social cuts that are consolidated in this draft budget. I reminded you that we continue to allocate almost EUR 3 million to maintaining Basque delegations abroad and, in our view, that is not a priority expenditure. There are other priority expenditure, which is to combat child poverty, to combat poverty in general, to combat energy poverty, to combat evictions, to combat unemployment. Those are the priorities. That is why we have reduced some games and raised others, that is why, because, in fact, we think that there is room to do so. You say it increases in relation to the previous year by 13 million everything that has to do with research. We could increase it more, we could increase it more, and the work of a parliamentarian who is in opposition is to remind the Government of that. Not to say that we are better than in other autonomous communities, but to remember that there is a perfectly feasible margin for improving these budget lines. And I told him about R & D & i, scholarships, innovation, entrepreneurship, internalisation. All this could have increased, if certain items were reduced or if the reforms that Euskadi needs were carried out. Institutionally, indeed. We continue to call for reform of the institutional framework. And this doesn't think it's Spanishism. In fact, we also criticize the institutional structure that exists in Spain. Therefore, what we think is that institutions have to be and have to be used to improve people's lives, not to take huge amounts of public money when they are not at all necessary. Social emergency aid. Is the amount reflected in this draft budget, the EUR 22 million, going to be increased by means of a socialist amendment? Are you going to get there to meet all the needs? Do you think so? We don't think he'll make it. Is the 7 % cut in social benefits approved by the Socialist Party in the previous parliamentary term maintained? Is that cut keeping? Yeah, it's holding. You therefore maintain that social cut-off. It is consolidated in that draft budget. It could not be cut, it could be increased, it could be cancelled, but you decide to leave it as it is. That social cut is, therefore, consolidated. He has told me nothing about the Housing Act, about the housing budgets and about the government's clear lack of commitment to public rental housing. The same is true: through UPyD amendments, we managed to increase this heading also for public rental housing. They haven't said anything about this. English. The same is true: everything that has to do with English is not budgeted enough. The same applies to education and health. If we compare the education budgets with the education budgets for the financial year 2009, or the same for Health, we note that many million euros less are allocated. There are, therefore, the perfectly consolidated cuts. And that is the responsibility of this government. And I've obviously talked to you about EITB, with its 120 million euros in budget. An entity that today is at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party. It's a fact. As long as it is in the service of the Basque Nationalist Party, we will present partial amendments to reduce its budget. And instead of going to the propaganda of the Basque Nationalist Party, that money goes to solve people's problems. I say the same thing to him: education, health, social spending, etc., etc., etc., etc. So there is an alternative. I do not intend for you to give me reason and end up saying, "Yes, indeed, you have convinced me and we agree with that alternative." No, I don't want that. But I want you at least to acknowledge that there is a different alternative that we consider better to the draft budgets that you have put forward. That is why the work of the opposition groups is based not only on parliamentary work, but in particular on the work of the opposition groups. And that's what we've actually done. If certain reforms were carried out, we would save ourselves a great deal of public resources, which we could devote to the important thing. As long as these reforms are not carried out, what we propose is to reduce those items that we consider to be less urgent to allocate to what we believe is most necessary. Anyway, as I say, I think we've put forward an alternative. The data is perfectly collected there. We have therefore shown that this draft budget is much better. I believe that the project that has been presented to us is conservative, it is continuous, it lacks ambition. There is no talent on the part of this Government, there is no sensitivity, many things could be done, but it is ultimately decided to leave everything as it stands. The Socialist Group is indeed going to give him the OK; of course, we are not.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u36	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Second round of answers, Mrs. Gorospe, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u37	It's true, Mr. Maneiro, that your speech is the same as you always do. And you'd have to consider that because that's what's led you to political marginity. That's what you're talking about. That's what led you to political marginity. And to say that there's a better, more direct budget to introduce to society, maybe it's just a little bit of pride when you see it, it's probably a bit too big for the budgets that the village has introduced to you, and that it's a lot more protection for the people, because it's more supportable than society. We shall not go in again, but let it be clear: This budget isn't strictly conservative, it's human. It's inhuman. It's rocket. Don't get mixed up with being consistent and continuing with preponderating prior priorities through time, conservative. It's the Conservative. It's human. And I told you, for some left-handed parts of the state, it's the type of fun that's done. Many actions here are planned elsewhere, because they are considered as models. You said you didn't do it against the eucalyptic. Yes, yes. For thou sayest that to lead, and that thy discourse is evil; that is what I tell thee. To direct it, you say, is the act of a patriotic project. "Es consecencia o base de un proyecto nacilista concreto." And we are the example of that which is not so! You're a passionate nationalist, and I'm a patriot of eubert. And we're both making it up. It's ours, it's ours. Of all of us who are here, of all the people. Not a patriot's project! Yes, you say it, a thousand times, that'sUPyD's speech. And that's what I'm saying is that he's smart about eusca. Then you have some clear contradictions: but on the other hand, you wish to remove the foreign representatives of the Government. And that's a very complex thing to do. That's what you call it, too, in your own codes, the patriotic "obsesison," and it's not at all a patriotic obsession, because that's what you call it in the courts. The external action belongs to the member of the community, and the international relations to the state. As far as housing goes, you said, "You haven't said anything about how it works." Do you know how much money is spent in rentals? Almost 100 million euros. And as far as the housing law is concerned, it's only about 2 million. And the chairman of the departments who came to the committee, the Chief of Toñas, the Chief of the Gazagares, both supplied all the information and said that the first object was not to give an economic preparation. This purpose is a subsidary purpose. And he'll do the best he can to hire those who need to be given a flat. And if that's not possible, then in subsidy, they'll be given a scholarship. And the law itself has a corridor. And all the planning that you made are directed to that. And apart from the two million people who are now looking to pay for the housing and support, they're heading to pay off the rent of 60% of the community situation, and there's more 87 million in additional housing preparation. And we should also include the rental data. And the rental, to put the housing in rent, to buy houses, directs 5.790 million. The lease for rent is 2017 to 2020, 30,78 million. Yeah. It's all in the budget. Open your eyes when you read the accounts. Now, if you want to work for this member and our fellow-citizens, read carefully, read carefully and honestly, and make propositions to improve them, but be honest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. [[Pause]] Now that the discussion's over, we're gonna vote for the bill to come back or not. Please take a good look at your offers, which works well. Yeah? Especially to you. Let's vote. We can vote if the bill returns to the government, yes or no. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 32; the opponents, 43; the white ones, 0; abstentions; 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u39	So the bill of law won't return to the government. Next vote. The Social Party, Mrs. Corcuera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u40	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The Basque Socialist Group has rejected the amendments in their entirety because they are based on false assumptions and because we believe that it is better for citizens to have tools for employment, to improve the amounts for public health and education, to increase the amounts for research and innovation, to guarantee new subjective rights approved by this House, such as housing, and that they would not be possible with a budgetary extension, and ultimately, tools that would allow through amendments, to strengthen social emergency aid, aid for energy poverty or aid for reconciliation. Three years ago the Socialists made two strategic decisions for this legislature. First, reject a budget project for 2013 that cut into essential policies up to EUR 1.5 billion. Secondly, to put forward concrete proposals that would allow more revenue through a tax reform, expressly endorsed by this Parliament. In addition, it proposed spending on economic recovery, employment and social cohesion. Proposals that we are beginning to discuss in the accounts today have a track of EUR 1.7 billion. In the present draft we note the increase in the employment budgets, as agreed by the Socialists three years ago, and as has also been claimed by this Parliament. It also gives continuity to those infrastructures that were paralyzed and radically rejected by the current Government, such as the development of the university hospital of Álava, the hospital of Eibar, BioCruces, the metro of Donostialdea or the regeneration of Pasaia Bay. Similarly, as signed three years ago, the funding of the Osakidetza contract-programme and educational items has been increased, as has also been claimed by this Parliament. These and other issues were reflected in that 2013 agreement and remain in force today. In addition, other mandates of this Parliament have been incorporated: the increase in research spending, in line with the Socialist initiative of the research pact, adopted in June by this House and supported by all groups, less by which it supports the Government. The development of the Housing Act in terms of transitionality, voted by this Parliament and also against the opinion of the Government. And we have to say whether it was a milestone for socialists to pass this law, to know that subjective law is going to be a reality in less than a month's time, and we would like that reality, that conquest to be shared by those who for two years worked with us to make this right possible. That's why it draws attention to the fact that they don't put it in value and that they stay with the thick outline of an increase in a loan that is also expandable. We have also seen with some astonishment that it takes away the importance that the socialists have ensured compliance with the Fracking Act, which was reticenced by the government and which has even been attempted to elude in the 2016 accounts. For the first time and in 10 years there is not going to be a single euro of Basques to finance any fracking project, nor research, nor exploitation, neither inside nor outside of Euskadi. Euskal Herria Bildu presented to the Socialists a budget proposal that said literally, "decrease of items intended for fracking in SHESA". And the result of our work is not the reduction of departures, but the suppression of them. There are zero games, although from some medium, from some group, it was intended to start the ceremony of confusion. The Socialists think that some of these things should be recognized by those who have joined forces this year, because they were initiatives adopted in this House and they are the ones that have motivated the Socialists to decide our position. Everyone knows or should know that if the accounts were returned, if there was a budget extension, simply the subjective right to housing could not materialize, that we would also continue to allocate financial amounts to fracking projects and that the research pact could not be launched. The Socialists voted against the amendments as a whole, because we were not prepared for the government to shield itself in bad accounts so as not to put parliamentary mandates that are important for citizens on the line and not to meet the needs that the most vulnerable groups are going to have in 2016. These are not the budgets that the Basque Socialists had put forward. In 2012, in the last budgets drawn up by the socialists, the Basque accounts presented another feature very different from that which today has the accounts of the government of the lehendakari Urkullu. And the groups that then tabled full amendments, today they have those 2012 budgets as reference. Surprises of life. The Socialists, far from simplistic or twisted views, have managed to improve this budget project with proposals, which, in addition to fulfilling the mandates of this House, promote in other institutional and social bodies policies to promote employment, innovation, entrepreneurship, economic revival, associationism and social cohesion. It is legitimate for other groups to think that more could have been achieved and in time they are in the process of trying to convince the Government of what the Socialists have failed to achieve, by agreeing on proposals for spending and funding, by agreeing on where to go to decide what to go. But it is at the door of the government that they must call, even though by the amendments to the whole and the speeches they have heard, someone might think that we are the socialists who govern Euskadi. The Socialists have invoked our work in this Parliament and our commitment to citizenship in these Budgets. From the opposition, we have placed the agenda of this House on the things that really interest citizens, putting solutions. To put solutions, and not to do clientelism, is also to demand a principle of justice for a part of our institutional architecture to which the majority has been denied, as are the Basque municipalities, which do not have today a Basque municipal law that allows them to have clear their competences and also their financing. Councils that manage for all citizens, vote to whom this citizenship votes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u41	Go to the end, Mrs. Corcuera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u42	Yeah. Socialists are municipalists and we believe that municipalities must also be present in these budgets. And as it seems that the use of philosophy has become fashionable in recent times, I too will quote Kant, who said: "With the stones that critics try hard to throw at you, you can well erect a monument." We Socialists regret that this Government has been left to manage the urgency and proposals of others. We miss, not only in this budget but throughout the legislature, proposals for the great challenges we face for the future, because no structural reforms have been proposed. And we have said this – and I finish already, President – on several occasions, and to make it clear: these are not our budgets. But the Socialists are not "the worse, the better." And it is not the budgets that the Socialists had put forward to lay the foundations for the future of Euskadi, but this does not prevent us from facilitating their approval from our commitment to Basque citizenship, without failing to rethink it in Euskadi, and next year we hope to be able to discuss some budgets drawn up again by the Basque Socialists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-12-03.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two and three in the afternoon.
