ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. And today we'll begin with a minute's silence, to announce the death of the Almua Maarnz against us. [[Pause]] Then I'll read an institutional statement. "The law of the Euss wishes to condemn it firmly, and to exclude it entirely from the murder of Mrs. Maaraz. The Allmua is the victim of a new phenomenon of violence against women. The law shows its support and woe to the relatives and closest members of the victim. "The Basque Parliament condemns this death, as well as any manifestation of violence against women or sexual discrimination. We understand that gender-based violence is the most serious expression of inequalities between women and men, resulting from women's power relations and submission. "The American law invites the citizens to adopt a personal and collective commitment for the equality of women and men. We are also responsible for destroying violence, and therefore demand that they have plans for all their resources which may be sufficient for them, that the matter may be permanently disappeared. The goal is that no attack against women should come again, and much less the murder of Almua in Maarac." Preceding theme: "To return to the bill of law, which changes the law of Activity the third time, or not to decide it, to make it permanent, according to the announcement of the 92.1 articles of the whole meeting of October." It was a draw whether or not the law of commerce changes the law for the third time in the vote of the 1st party in the year of the year. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we're going to make that correction vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters 35; contraries, 36; white, 0; abstinence, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u1	So it's gonna go down, like, "The bill's going to go back to Christmas." First point in theme list: "You shall gather together the law-making proposition concerning the spreading and stabilizing of the public offering of the Osacians. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Ubera, the representative of the EHG, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u2	Good morning, ma'am. A chief physician, who is not present to-day at the conference in the preceding evening, Mr. Toña, asked our party for assistance. He asked for help to find a solution to the problems we have in our hands, and to prevent all of us from being confronted with them. And, Mr. Urkullu, it won't be because we haven't tried to help you again and again, we've been very stubborn, especially if we're keeping our job and making proposals about quality. But, to tell the truth, we found no one on the other side, ready to receive help, neither listening nor listening to. And it's a shame today that Mr. Darpon isn't here. In this sense, there has been a very significant circumstance in the whole legislation about what we have been discussing today. I mean, with the Osatian plan, the Osatian jobs, and the personal behavior and behavior of the Medical Department. All of us here agree that the treasure, the column, the template, is personal. After all, people who need to treat people because they're people who have to deal with people. We can't treat people without a person, some of them are patients, others are workers. We all agree, and they have been the main motto of the Medical Department, that the quality of the service is gained by the nearness of the service, that the person must be the object, that the employment of quality presupposes improvement in the service, and so on. It's been a very long drug. But it is a matter of opinion that though they all agree in all this, the practice and actions show that the Government is placed in the opposite direction. And the photo is very illuminating, the photo has been very illuminating throughout the legislature. The health department has taken all the decisions in uniform. The Health Table has become an informative table, it is not a space for negotiation. And the only agreements there have ever been, have been the interest of a few, to search for privileges and destroy jobs. Thousands of jobs in the community have been destroyed. From 2011 to 2014, 3,000 jobs have been destroyed. The provisional situation is in 35%, 15 points higher than the job trade is the temporary part of the Os share. And then, to be sure, the number of the labourers is a disgrace. A person is made a contract for three months at a por acumulación de Tarares. What does he do to her? Every three months he renews the contract, and then, despite the objective reason, to prolong that contract, he throws himself out into the street and hires another person. And we still have the same dynamics. Why is that? Don't turn those jobs into a structure. Then they're using integrated sanitarian institutions to destroy jobs. The public offering which has been published is extremely ridiculous: 507 squares are open shifts and 507 is inner projections. And they didn't come out in every category. And I'm not going to discuss the characteristics of public offer, because we could talk about it for a long time. Then there's nothing to say about the puns between the planetal and the plantil. But what's really in the lobby is serious. The planetatilla is from 25.7807 and functional, if we go to nomines, it's 36.519 person. And if we go to people, 33.770. So, seeing only these facts, we see something's going on with Osa-Darn contracts, jobs and personals. Then, if we can see the data that the Department of Health sends us every month, what we see is that data from the month after the month changes terribly. But if we go to thirds of work, and to other partial occupations, we see that the provisional process is continually rising. Then, if we go to the Oscillary Report, I'll say that it's our date, the reorganized report of human resources, that report says, 15,216 jobs will be destroyed until 2018. So, the question is, how do we keep the column and template we have today? I think it's kind of a test. Then, since they're not Sanitarian jobs, if we start talking about the Baiskald, the laundress, the operatics, the Unhappensors like the cooks, there's been no more offer from OPE than two days ago, the jobs are privatizing. And that's what we have every day in Osa-we'll like it or not, but reality is that. I don't know what a state the health department really is conscious of, what it all supposes to be in the Osare, how many of the lower classes, especially the lower classes, have really to increase the work, because they have to make a lot of effort to provide us, to people, with the quality of health. For when we speak here, quality is good to the public health system, it is often due to the industry of the workers of their own will, and not to the health department, for the means which are offered to them. So we think all this needs serious reflection. We'll agree to this photograph, not so much, we'll like it better or not, but it's clearly asking for reflection. And so far, the government, the Department of Health, has been well living on incomes, it's worked out to you, but that's also limited, it's got a deadline. And what we want to know is honestly what this government's plan is for the public health system, what a plan it's going to come to in the future for the Osacides. For the decisions which are now being made are most conditioned by the future, as well as the present, but the future. And seeing what they're really making up their minds, we'd say our public health system has a black future. And it's not my intention to imagine a catastrophic situation today, but it seems to us that it's really deliberate and that we should have a reflection on the back of a table. Because it's never too late to take a walk around things and change direction. And therefore, seeing that in this Chamber the proposals to the structure of Osa and to OPE have not been taken notice of, we have brought in several proposals, and none of them has been fulfilled, we decided to bring another proposal this time, seeing that OPE was already published in the Voletine. And we brought in to prevent people from crooning at least the people who are introduced to OPE, even though they don't get the square, they're rares and they're temporary, and that's all it's supposed to be for the sake of rewarding them at once at OPE. And we don't plan to go through the back door. If there's any system like that, even inside the New York Administration, we feel like we have to go around all this, to cut down the provisionalness that's urgent, to give stability and to all the people who work in the Osar, to be certain to work calmly. And we planned three axes on our proposal. This was the first negotiation. It always has to be the first interview, we've got to negotiate, and that's what we're asking, we know it's not easy, but we know that in 2014 it's negotiated on the part of OPE's edge, even though they've resurrected the current one, we thought it would be necessary to make an attempt to get to OPE wider. The other axis was to reveal and illustrate the few that are, to insert the planilla into the structure of the structure. And the third axis was to examine, and to use the rules of law here, to solidize stability, and to make the temporary squares stable in some way and to place people in stability. Tell him we've made a middle-way from all the team's corrections. In this middle term we enter the defence of our self-interest, the defence of our interference, and knowing that, although the budgets of the state have already been removed from the measures already prior to the settlement, yet in case any one repents. On the other hand, we're also petitioned for negotiation. We're getting rid of the sactorial tables for Osactorials to be an informal table and become a site for interviews. We get it to light up the work-million jobs, to spread the rares. And we've left it for the next time because we think it's worth another turn and we're ready to go through the depth, we've left the possibility of finding other ways of reaching for stability other ways. So we think that we should all protect the ones on the table today. And we should especially ask the party that supports the government to make an effort to find out the end we all aim at: to have a strong public system of health, and above all to ensure the future in our public health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Roncal is the representative of the Basque Socialist team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u4	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu anderea. Egunon, legebiltzarkideok, lehendakari jauna. The Basque Socialist parliamentary group agreed with the GNP presented on 30 October 2014, about a year ago, in which an initiative was also presented to the Government to improve the quality of public offers, to improve the quality of relations with trade unions, to fine-tune the analysis of vacancies and to bring them all out, in order to negotiate the possibility of offering them at OPE. And we agreed then and we now agree with the new initiative. The new initiative re-invigorates the Government to truly realize that the most important asset Osakidetza has to offer health services to the population is workers. Our aim is not to improve the quality of labour relations in itself, nor to give trade union representatives a real choice to speak with the Government. Our aim is to ensure that the provision of health services to the population is the best possible, naturally with the functional and economic structures that the current situation allows us. But we believe that the talent can be improved so as, as I say, to fine-tune relations with the trade unions, to reach agreements at the sectoral negotiating tables and that they are not just a presentation by the government of an offer and it is over, take it or leave it, and then try to divide the trade union through bilateral negotiations. It can't be that, it shouldn't be that. The leaders of Osakidetza must share with the unions the tasks of decision-making, planning and reaching agreements, as far as possible. We started the legislature with a request from a commission of eventuals – always that a commission is created is because the collective feels that they have problems and that they want to solve them – in which we were alerted about the decrease in contracts that was taking place in the group of eventuals who had been working regularly and who were at that time engaged in unemployment. They were a significant percentage of eventuals, it was an important commission of eventuals. For what reason? Because it was not replaced as much as before, neither were holidays or absences to take courses or breaks, nor of course were pensions, disabilities and deaths replaced. The eventuals will have continued to suffer this crisis throughout the legislature, because it is really the ones who are left without a job, while the unions will have continued to fight to improve the working conditions without achieving it, but obviously the most important loss is that of the eventuals. And what do the eventuals, as well as the trade unions, and this Parliament are asking for? For more sufficient OPEs should be made in the number of vacancies offered. The government had previously had a legal reason not to increase the OPEs, which was the restriction on replacement rates, which limited it to 20%. That restriction has disappeared. We would like to see in the department quickly an answer on offer, because he has always told us that his will was to offer more places. I would like to see that will in the Government, and I would like to see the Councilman who goes out on a press conference, as he likes to do, to announce that he is indeed putting himself at the head of the autonomous communities in order to take advantage of the removal of the restriction of fees. I would like to see you, Mr Councillor, taking that step, because it is the logical consequence of the will expressed by you throughout the whole legislature, and that all vegetative vacancies, whether by death, disability or retirement, can be offered, as I say. But in addition, what I have told you before, they must adjust the procedures for analysing the possible places. Osakidetza has a significant percentage of possible places that do not have a structural place, do not have a number of places, but are necessary for the provision of the service. And that the point that we agreed on a year ago was fulfilled: to analyze the places that took more than three years as eventual to transform them into structural ones and that they also go out to OPE. Let so many accumulations of tasks disappear, because they are actually to accumulate two places in one: that is also another vacancy that must be offered. We believe that they have the opportunity to do so, that we would like to see the adviser take that step and that he announces that he actually increases the OPE, because now he has the legal possibility to do so. And let him listen to us, because here there is a breach of what we agreed a year ago. I do not know what degree of political will you have to accept what is approved today, but what I am going to say is that we are not going to tire of claiming what we believe is right, which we believe is appropriate and which we consider necessary to maintain Osakidetza at the level of quality of services it has today. Because the advisor's responsibility is not day-to-day management, it's planning for the future, and that's where we want to see him. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Mr. Barrio, who represents the Potion of Basque Groups, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u6	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be brief. This trade union debate that Bildu is putting before us today has already been held a few months ago in relation to the approaches that were finally adopted in the compromise amendment adopted by the Socialist Party and Bildu votes. We understood on that occasion that Parliament was weak in favour of placing itself in a trade union attitude and entering into details and attitudes which corresponded to the Basque Government itself and its interests in making public offers of employment, adequate and necessary public employment policies, and also to trade unions, in a role which must be realistic, which must be objective and constructive. And in those same keys we affirm ourselves today. It is the Government that has to organize its public offers of employment with trade unions and their needs for jobs and public employment. Our role must be to see whether the Government is doing things or not. Not to say how you have to do them in that very administrative and concrete aspect. Osakidetza is the flagship of the Basque Administration, we could say, and it is enough for it to be managed with a lot of responsibility and a lot of firm hand and in response to these constant needs. Indeed, dialogue and transparency are there, perhaps pending, but that is what we must urge to happen. And above all do it with the law in hand, without formulas that escape from the rules or with emerging approaches. We are talking about access to public employment and guarantees for citizens, and that is done by complying with the rules we have, and of course in areas such as this with a lot of responsibility: budgetary responsibility, organisational responsibility, administrative responsibility. Mrs Ubera, as always, when we address these issues, you already see the black future of Basque public health, the dismantling of Basque public health. It is always a catastrophic speech in relation to these issues. I think we should look at the strengths and understand that there are and appeal to the responsibility of all. Not only the Government, but also the trade union centres and those who participate and must participate in a more constructive and realistic way, perhaps, in this whole process. In that debate a few months ago, my group already considered that the fundamental issue is public employment in Osakidetza, as in the whole administration or public offers of employment, it is a subject of great importance and relevance. What we have to define as that public employment policy related to the quality of services, which is what we must first and foremost set ourselves, in this case health services, and with the guarantees of course of the workers. This issue has to be definitively addressed by the Government and the social partners. We believe that Parliament's role must be to urge this to happen and to know, yes, that negotiating process, to analyse it and the consequences of it. That must be our role, our point of view, our role. We have tabled an amendment which we will vote in favour, and then I shall refer briefly to it. The organization, of course, changes and evolves. And that definition of change must of course be analysed by the Government, identifying needs and opportunities for action. And also the social partners, also the trade unions, transferring responsible and realistic proposals and demands, who really seek to guarantee the quality of service, I say again, health in this case and the motivation and commitment of the workers. There must be the keys. In conclusion, in order to analyse the issue, we understand that our approach is to offer jobs, to motivate workers, to maintain the quality of public services, to deepen of course in transparent processes, open to public offers of employment in all areas, not only in Osakidetza, but without corresating or reducing the scope of negotiations and always complying with the current rules, because in approaches that are made in proposals such as these there are issues that escape from compliance with the laws and that cannot be, in such administrative matters, as organisational, as budgetary as these, and as much of basic rules, of general rules or of our autonomous rules. We are the Basque Parliament, Mrs Ubera and Mrs Roncal, we are not a trade union platform, it was also said in that debate, and of course, seeing the compromise amendment, she misses it. If in the concert this negotiation, dialogue, meetings or disagreements are those who are, Government and the trade union centres, I miss that in a compromise amendment, which urges the Government of Spain, which urges the Basque Government, there is also no instance of the proactive attitude, the responsible attitude, the constructive or positive attitude in certain keys of the social partners, of the trade unions involved in the negotiation. They can also be analyzed in relation to many circumstances. We are not going to do this in a non-legislative proposal of these characteristics, but in any case it is certainly missing, and if you want to be integral in addressing a question of this, of your negotiating tables and of the role of some and others it is missing that you too can make an introspection, even a self-criticism in relation to your role as trade union parliamentarians in these matters. We have tabled an amendment in its entirety, we had already done so in the previous debate, a few months ago. It is essential: to urge the Basque Government to guarantee the system and strengthen the Basque health system and not to see a dark black future. We will understand that we are going to be behind the government so that that does not happen, and I believe that we are getting it with this government, with the previous ones, those many years ago too, when the strategic lines were established. We must continue to urge the Basque Government to guarantee and strengthen the Basque health system, which must remain public, universal and of quality, and to respond to the health needs of the entire population of the Basque Autonomous Community. To encourage and convene, of course, the meetings of the sectoral bureau as the body competent to negotiate the working conditions of workers in Osakidetza. Clearly, this must be the area in which this body of dialogue, of collaboration with workers and their trade union representatives is confirmed, in order to adopt the measures and improve the structure and organization of Osakidetza, for the Government and trade unions to also cooperate on this issue. And, of course, urge that it continue to provide Osakidetza with the human and economic resources necessary to guarantee to all people the right to health protection and quality health care, offering universal public coverage. That is where we have to put the keys, that is where we have to put the distance to the government, in which all these issues are guaranteed. And to ensure all these issues is also to ensure a good public employment policy and labour relations policy. We understand that that is the case, and that is why we will vote against the forgotten compromise amendment and vote in favour of ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u7	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u8	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. We share many arguments, many ideas, many demands that are pointed out and pointed out by the different political groups in this Parliament, both in the original initiative and in the amendments that the various groups have tabled. In particular, we also share the initiative adopted by this Parliament on 30 October 2014, although not complied with by the Basque Government. I also believe that we will have to talk at some point about the initiatives adopted in this Parliament which are absolutely useless, because the Basque Government of the Basque Nationalist Party, as it thinks it is above good and evil and nothing affects it, is still on its way to making deaf ears to everything this Parliament proposes. I believe that this is a very serious thing, that the various groups that, at least for the moment, do not wave to the Basque Nationalist Party, we should take letters on the matter. A multitude of parliamentary initiatives that are adopted in this Parliament, and the Basque Government of the Basque Nationalist Party absolutely goes beyond them, because it is considered to be above good and evil and that nothing affects it. And this is one of those initiatives that was adopted in this Parliament and which the government is not responding to. I say that we share a number of objectives, at least with some other parliamentary groups in this House: to ensure the stability of the staff of Osakidetza, to reduce eventuality and precariousness, to guarantee the quality of the services of our public health system, to consolidate the Osakidetza project. To open a political negotiation with the State to agree on a number of positions for the OPE – also reflected in some of the amendments of the various groups and in that of UPyD. Implement employment promotion measures by hiring all replacements from day one – one of the arguments also reflected in the Socialist Group's amendment. To guarantee and strengthen the Basque health system, which must remain public, universal and of quality, in order to respond to the health needs of the entire population of Euskadi. And guarantee to all people the right to health protection and quality health care, offering universal public coverage. Reduce the percentage of temporary recruitment, and a long et cetera. We have tabled an amendment, which has not been negotiated with any other group and is therefore left alone. And we proposed to urge the Department of Health to negotiate urgently with the Government of Spain the bases of a new OPE whose supply of places significantly exceeds the replacement rates, with the aim of lowering the current rate of temporality in the Basque Health Service and giving stability to the workforce. The new OPE was proposed to be developed in the first half of 2016. I believe that it was a very specific and clear mandate to the Government. However, the Socialist Group and the EH Bildu Group have preferred to sign another transactional, which we obviously respect. Not many months ago the proposal cited by Mrs Ubera was discussed and what is being transcribed and with which we basically agree, at least with her philosophy, was approved, since UPyD has always advocated a universal, public, quality health and that it provides optimum service to citizens. And that it is based on a staff that has recognized decent, decent working conditions and available means to enable these workers to perform their work properly. And it is that the better the public workers are treated, the better the public service will provide the citizens. No one can deny the cuts that have taken place in recent years in the health field. Although the Basque Government has consistently denied or renamed them as essential adjustments to maintain essential public services, it is true that during all these years there have been a number of cuts in health care, which UPyD has been denouncing as active and passive in its various interventions. Osakidetza has enjoyed broad recognition by the citizens, who saw how the service provided in Euskadi had been gradually and progressively improving for decades, thanks to the efforts of many and especially the efforts of citizens and public employees. However, this perception has been broken in recent years and the direct and real cause has been cuts imposed by central and Basque governments. There were those who spoke earlier, in particular Mr Barrio, about the necessary motivation that workers must have. However, it should be remembered that when cutting is driven, quality is resentful. When cuts are pushed or precariousness grows, or temporaryity increases or substitutions are reduced, certain motivations may be reduced as a result of all these cuts. And that's what's been happening. And as a result of these cuts, the stress and pressure on professionals increases, which undoubtedly has an impact on the quality of the service provided; and it increases insecurity when professionals are forced to rotate for different services, because they do not know them enough, which affects the quality of the service provided. And anger increases when the career that was already approved is suspended, which also has an impact on the quality of the service provided, etc. It is a cluster of factors that has a direct consequence: the quality that Osakidetza is currently offering is worse than that offered a few years ago. It is better than that offered in other autonomous communities, but it is worse than that offered a few years ago. And this I think is something that no one can deny. Therefore, as a first step, cuts in health should be stopped in order to ensure the best possible health services and to recover the levels of previous exercises and the levels offered in some of the countries in our environment. We have also advocated that appropriate OPEs be regularly convened to cover retirement, death, new job creations in new health centres, hospitals, etc. And in that Osakidetza always goes far behind the real needs, that is, they call less OPE than necessary and with less places than necessary. They have signed the Socialist Group and EH Bildu a transactional, which certainly collects interesting things. However, we are going to vote in favour of ours, which I already say I think is meridianly clear. I believe that the important thing here is to urge the Basque Government, the Department of Health, to negotiate with the Government of Spain the bases of a new OPE whose supply of seats significantly exceeds the replacement rates, with the aim of lowering the current rate of temporality in the Basque Health Service and giving stability to the workforce. I believe that this UPyD amendment could be approved by this Parliament, because it seems to me to be perfectly reasonable. We are not going to reject the compromise signed between EH Bildu and the Socialist Group, nor are we going to support it, I am going to abstain, and in case it does not come out, I call on all groups to vote for the UPyD amendment. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u9	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Orbehabá, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Chief physician, welcome. Whoever has accused you of not being present for want of interest, I think he must now admit that, as you are here, there has been no want of interest. We do not agree in the statement that was said, and with those assertions which have been repeated to-day. We believe that Osacides has not allowed public work offers without turning back to unions and even less considering workers and professional members of the Osalist. Besides, we think the offer of more than 1,000 public jobs is in any way ridiculous. Membership won't force anyone to participate in this public offer, member will allow more than one thousand workers to participate in the process of public offering, their conditions of work to improve and stabilize their jobs. And more than 1,000 jobs this year, and he's going to present another 1,000 jobs for at least 2016, as has been announced publicly. So, no doubt, we don't say it's ridiculous. All this, moreover, by securing the legal security within the limits established by the established law. That is to say, to all the persons who will participate in this EPE, by providing for the proper procedure, without endangering the experiments and efforts of thousands and thousands of people. And that's no excuse. Membership has not used the Spanish Presidency as an excuse to avoid admitting a larger job offer, as has been said several times. And you have mentioned the purest example, as an example, the case of the bordering on yourself: I heard it was not difficult for you to agree with the Madrid Government. Well, as we have known in the last few days, there have been difficulties and dangers and our jurisdictions, and the state has resurrected EPE for the Borders. On the other hand, you've been accusing him over and over again that the demancision of the member of Osa and more than 3,000 jobs have been destroyed since 2011. We still don't know where you get these facts, but they're not right. How else can it be explained that in this year's budget the personal expense for members is increased, and there is no consistency in it. So we don't have the diagnosis you're sharing with in your initiative. In this sense, we think the first point you receive in the middle is badly stated. I don't think it's a problem with the state to start negotiating, but that's not the problem. For in the course of recent years the Popular Party has been clearly convinced that the Spanish Government has not the will to respect our government by laws of its fundamental nature. In fact, he wants to clear his jurisdiction. This has been an example of setting up the rates of composition, as well as the full. So, the negotiation procedure starts, but who's gonna sit on the other side of the table? With what will does he sit on the other side of the table? That's why we asked him to respect the auto-gourage and cancel the performance rates. What we want is to remove these restrictions to determine how and when rares can happen. At that point, Mrs. Roncal, the appurtenance rates have not disappeared. It's 100 percent now, but they haven't disappeared, so they're still there. On the other hand, we think it's very partial to saying that the Oscar sector table is just a desk of information, not a collective negotiation table. In fact, we have all the meetings that we've had since 2013, and we can see who's moving, who's making a move, who's making an effort to bring up the positions that he's been doing. As for the third point, we also agree with the necessity of giving this information, we have no objection to it. And besides, we're sure that if you ask them, neither will the boarders have any objection to making them available. What you receive in the fourth, we also plan the same, but we believe that our proposition is better. In fact, the boarders are already doing the job for planning, evaluation, analysis, and reflection in order to be able to take the best measures for the future. And finally, though you've finally taken it off, I think it's a very important point to make sure that you're proposing that we still don't understand it, we'd like to explain it better if possible. I mean, if we didn't misinterpret it, you planned to use lists derived from EPE that don't belong to those who didn't get out of the square. First of all, we think that has legal problems. We're not sure it's possible to do that, for a particular case like that, give legal self-reliance. And besides, it wouldn't have been right with the workers who work in so many different administrations. So we think it's not very fair. Nay, when it is announced that there will be another EPE next year, and also when yesterday the Basque Council of the Public Function accepted the Basque Act, or at least approved it. and there may be another way to receive or advance what you ask for. But we believe this to be the subject which is to be treated in another sphere. We suppose it to be the logical thing to do as soon as the offers of public employment are finished, with the expected procedures to meet, and consequently to reduce the temporary rates. That would be the best scheme or scheme for us to go on, to finish EPE's, to fill the sparses, and to increase the new squares, or to increase the map, with new needs. That's why we're gonna stand up for our full-scale correction. As we know, and as has been said here, Osarism accepted the Human Resources Plan for 2014 and 2016 years. I don't know where you got it from, Mrs. Ubera, on this plan or that report, to destroy 15,000 jobs for 2018 years. As the Basque and Medical Department have done, it has always appeared that firm commitment to keep the plantilla routine, that there should be no amortal Depreciation, and that there should be steps in the composition of the plan, within the promised procession. And that didn't happen in all the health services in the area. On the other hand, Osacides here plainly showed the intention of improving and maintaining the employments of the planet without destroying any employment. We will therefore urge those responsible for Osakidetza, the department, to approve, as they have publicly announced, new OPEs that will enable people working in Osakidetza to be given greater stability and, moreover, to do so in accordance with the principle of legal certainty, precisely in order to avoid problems and not to generate false expectations that can be truncated by problems in the courts. Secondly, continue with the filling of vacancies already initiated in order to complete the structural template and thereby reduce the percentage of temporary recruitment. And finally, depending on the analysis and the evolution of the staffing that is already being carried out, to promote processes of expansion of staffing linked to the opening and development of new health care centres and spaces. We believe, therefore, that our proposals to the needs of the human resources of the Osata are far more proper for the present and the future, and consequently we vote for our correction. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u11	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing by the turn of the answers, Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u12	Mr. Greene, I didn't say it's easy to negotiate with the state. There's nothing to see except Osaform, or what's going on with the concert, with our compressions, and a long one. We know, therefore, what is the difficulty and the observation of all the excuses which Mr. Barrius has laid upon the table, and which may be intelligible to the public health system of Poptula in the Spanish State. But as for me as a citizen, as a member of the Osar, I care what happens and what becomes of his future, and I want to think that even the government cares about it. And what we can't do has been done by thousands of people who have been constantly dancing, their personal lives, their professionals conditioned. For example, how many jobs did they leave? Ten! We can't go around like this without knowing what will happen without certainty, what will happen with their jobs. We're adapting their daily condition. And it's enough to cheat people with the terms we use to tide people. You're talking all the time about a planatilla, you never talk about a planilla. And the template is functional, all the people we need in the day, all the employees, patients, people, and that's what we're talking about. And it seems to us that the first care of Administration is to act in the space which its subordinates are to itself. So, you're gonna have to be a member of the funk and you're gonna have to take care of the job for Osa, not to destroy jobs. There are sparse squares, such as pointing out all the jobs that are, reducing the provisionalness. It's a real data. The previous day Mr. Toña said: "The job market is transforming, it's preparationing." But, ladies and gentlemen, the temporary role for Osa is about 15 points higher than the labor trade, and it's our personal responsibility. Then let's go and do something, let's stop cheating and take a turn on our proposals on the table. That's all we ask. And then you talk about creating new hospitals in your amendments. In those new hospitals, if you read functional plans, it's not clear where all these jobs will come from, it's clear, for example, that in the functional plan of the Eibar hospital, those jobs will come now. Either they're from the other healthhouses, or they're going to be relocation, or other jobs from private management, it's completely open. Then what are we doing? And then with integrated sanitarian institutions. Now we're doing a reorganization and we're taking advantage of that reorganization, so that, by the way, we can eliminate jobs, destroy them. And whether perhaps I have used the right term before or not, but in your report, it is reported in human resources that it is expected to have disappeared fifteen thousand and a fig post by 2018. So, what's the planning of this government, member of Osar, in order to maintain our public health system? Reroute patients to private system, to support business with some people? Is that what we're looking for a few years from now, slowly, without the people noticing? Is that what we're doing? Well, let's be frank. And here in our proposition we speak most of the dialogue, if there is anything remarkable, it is the dialogue. And of course, we'll all have to put aside all the unions, both the government and the opposition teams, if we want to get to the agreements. But we're ready to talk about all these things. And here it's urgent to surface all the hiding jobs. And we have to look after the worker to ensure our health quality. Eta bukatzeko, simply an idea, Mr Darpón, for you to take a look around, for you to reflect, and to see if you are proposing it in the Health Committee for a while, and we will be willing, in that case, to support you. The idea is, once again, to extend the system of incorporation to those who approve the OPE and have been left without a place, so that they can access vacancies, with the aim of lowering the current rate of temporality and increasing and ensuring stability. An idea. Unlock it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u14	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu anderea. I take back Mrs Ubera's idea, because it seems to me that it opens up a new path. The OPE, the system of entry through OPE into public health, is not a single, absolute and unremovable system that is general in all countries and that is the best system for the incorporation of a selection of personnel for public health. In fact, before, it is not so far in time, there was in the Insalud the open and permanent competition, by which they entered, exclusively on merit, nursing staff and nursing assistants. It never generated problems; on the contrary, it was a very agile method of incorporation and stabilization of staffing and of immediate filling of vacancies. I'm not saying we have to go back to a merit-based income system. Perhaps it is possible to analyse a mixed system of OPEs and merits, such as that proposed by Mrs Ubera, and which can be nuanced and improved, in the sense of requiring the approval of a few minimums, in fact already guaranteed by the academic degree, and a number of merits in order to be able to occupy positions in a much more agile way than OPEs, which cost a lot of money, a lot of effort, cannot be done annually. I think that the best periodicity would be biannual, but in the meantime many vacancies can be generated and, of course, I think the subject deserves to be analysed, for the reason I have told you before, Mr. Counsellor: in addition to managing the day-to-day, we must plan the future and improve, if possible, the procedures for fixing the staffing table. I do not know if this could be generalized to all officials, but Osakidetza is different, it is not public administration as such, it is a public body under private law, which has some more freedom of management, both of material resources management and of human resources. And to set another example for Mr. Kerman Orbegozo. Look, there are breaches... Without going any further, the offers that are currently made are really in some frankly buchonous specialties. For taking up the example of Mrs Ubera, that of the places of rehabilitators. Look, in the motions for resolutions we made in our contributions to the Health Plan, we talked about the development of Osakidetza's rehabilitation services. We have seen no steps to develop services that we believe have a frank prospect of improvement. And we return to the same, our concern is not so much today's Osakidetza, which responds to the population in a satisfactory way as the satisfaction surveys mark, but improves all procedures to continue with an Osakidetza level, service delivery, provision of services and satisfaction of the population in a similar or better way if possible. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u16	Thank you, President. Soon. As in last October's approach, we fail to see that there is also a comprehensive call in this non-legislative proposal, finally this compromise amendment, and that trade unions are also being made, for a constructive and realistic analysis of everything we are talking about. Mrs Roncal was talking about improving the conditions with the unions. Yeah, but gee, curiously without urging the unions too. The compromise amendment has two parts, it lacks one, it is quite clear. The part of urging the Government of Spain... To urge the Government of Spain is, of course, always the tinker of some speeches to respect self-government. The Government of Spain does so scrupulously, that is, that this approach is unnecessary. In any case, everything else that falls within the scope of the negotiations, welcome be it, and that is normally done at the request of the Government of Spain, at the request of the Basque Government. But in any case, if the compromise amendment is approved, to do the usual thing. He then urged the Basque Government. There are indeed a number of issues that are called for in relation to negotiation, ensuring the true nature of negotiation, the sectoral table, information on templates, and possible places. But the third instance is missing. That is to say, the trade unions present at the negotiating table in Osakidetza would also have to receive, as the Government of Spain will receive if this compromise amendment is approved, or the Basque Government will receive a certification from this Parliament, from the Basque Parliament. By insisting on the same keys as it puts in point number two of the instance the Basque Government: to ensure that the sectoral table has a true character of collective bargaining, because they can also contribute to this issue. That is to say, this compromise amendment is absolutely incomplete. And as long as you only see it from the union's point of view, you're going to fail. Here you have to see it from an integral point of view. And we do it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u17	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Maniro... he will not speak. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Ubera, you say it's not easy now. On the other hand, in the expression you introduced, you use an excuse again and again in this Chamber. And, as I said, there's the example of OPE's reaction to the Border. But don't you just remember that at this time of law, he's already had to put 16 resources in order to defend our jurisdictions, against the melt of our jurisdictions. And the day before yesterday we met another new irrigation, Ley de developers para el dove racinal de los medicalcamentos, when we entered the hospital cup. So it's not an excuse, it's reality, there's a real risk. And the rate, it's true, hasn't invented PP before remembering that at President Zapero's time PSOE has established them for many years using fundamental law. You put an example of the physiotheraping, and you tricked her out. How many did it go out? Ten did you say? And how many can go out? What would happen if 200 people came out and worked out for so many professionals for a long time, if the process were to stop after the whole procedure? What would be the consequence? And you mentioned the conversation. And the question is, what is dialogue, what is negotiation? Who made the effort? I told you about the other round. Who made an effort to put new proposals on the table? Who hasn't moved? There's the profession case. The will exists. That's where the agreement could have been made with several unions, UGT, Comissions, LAB, and others. It's another thing to want to negotiate in the fields that don't belong to one's own hands. So we clearly see that Osature plan is to keep jobs, stabilize them, and create jobs as far as possible. But what really is reality in health? Is it a black future? Dismanitation? We believe that the engagement and the commitment to the Medical Department is real, and that the Department of Health is very conscious of the state of human resources for us as a member of the Osa. And I'll tell you one thing and this and I don't say it. Federacion de Associiones para Defensa de Salud Públicia had recently made a report to Osa in the progress of the quality of asceticity. And we don't say that, it's said by a completely neutral association. For the first time Osacides appears at the first post. This means that in this law the Medical Department has continued to take a step in order to reach the first position in this clanking. But besides this, other associations, other independent institutions, such as Osciación, para dérecho a la Salud, admit that the situation is better than anywhere else in the Eukadin. And they say that the other member is "no entrado en várágine privatricaora, que ha maintenanceido la sanidad universal y que la percepción de los crianos de tener un sanitio de general esizada." That is to say, the demanitation, the black future, those notions you use over and over, are not open to society. And finally, and about the new way you plan, if I didn't misunderstand you, to those who have passed OPE, but to give the square to those who don't have a square in that OPE, you propose. We think that's not legal right now and it's unfair. And I'll tell you even more, a similar thing is now done. The list is created with temporary employees and that's where the sequencing works are filled. What's the difference? That the square is given to those who have passed OPE but haven't pulled out the square? At least we don't share that solution. Mrs Roncal, remember also, with regard to the OPEs, the assessment of merits, the OPE of the previous legislature, precisely when it was the OPE where the highest rate of suspensions has existed. Where, then, is the assessment of merits? Then we confirm that we will protect all of us. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u19	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. End of discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect and the Middle Amendment signed by Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 36; the contrary, 35; white, 0; abstainments, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u20	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Second point on the subject list: "Euscal Socialists made the same proposal as the UKSI, concerning the defence of Eukadi. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Pastor, the Basque Socialist representer of the team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u21	Thank you, President. More than two months have passed since our group presented this bill to Parliament, but the time that has elapsed has not changed either its meaning or its opportunity. Because the announcement by Mr Rajoy's Government to challenge before the Constitutional Court two laws passed by this Parliament remains pending today: the Housing Act and the Act on additional environmental protection measures for the extraction of non-conventional hydrocarbons by hydraulic fracture, fracking. And although the dispute is now under negotiation, within the bilateral cooperation commission established between the two governments to deal with these conflicts, before referring them to the Constitutional Court, it must not be ruled out that Mr Rajoy, as the last act of farewell to La Moncloa, is carrying out his purpose. Unfortunately, this is certainly not the first time that the current central government has questioned the exercise of powers which belong to our Autonomous Community from a clearly re-centralizing position. It had already begun to do so in the previous legislature, when it had tried to prevent the Patxi López Government from using self-government to alleviate the cuts in the fundamental right to universal health that the People's Party had applied. And it has continued to do so throughout the current legislature, in which there has been no lack of conflicts of competence or cross-resources, on most occasions due to this sick desire for re-centralisation expressed by Mr Rajoy's Government. The Basque Socialists therefore believe that the statement we are asking for from this House is fully in force and necessary, so that it can seek the broadest possible agreement of the parliamentary groups. On the one hand, to seek more energy and diligence from the Basque Government to defend Euskadi's own competences in the areas of housing, soil, urban planning and the environment, in all those institutions where they are questioned. And this petition is not much less free. I would like to point out that the two rules on which the PP Government's challenge is based were adopted by a majority of this Parliament, but neither of them were promoted by the Basque Government, nor are they of its liking or of the party that supports it in a minority, the PNV. The law that establishes the subjective right of all Basques and Basques to decent housing is a consequence of an initiative of this group, of the Basque Socialists, to which the rest of the opposition groups joined and enriched. And the rule that opposes fracking, additional environmental protection measures, is the result of a popular legislative initiative taken and adopted by this Parliament. And I remember this, because the first reactions of members of the Basque Government to the adoption of both laws and the announcement of the central government on their challenge were rather ambiguous, when not lukewarm. In the Chamber there are some statements by the spokesman, Mr Erkoreka, or by the employment adviser, Mr Toña, which seemed to reveal, rather than wish to defend them, a certain degree of complacency at the possibility that the PP Government's objections would exonerate them from having to develop and enforce laws that they do not like very much. I must acknowledge that, at a later stage, and at the insistence of this group, the Basque Government abandoned reticent attitudes and expressly committed itself to defending both norms. And I want to stick to the words that the Lehendakari Urkullu spoke here last Friday, anticipating the line that the Government is going to maintain in the bilateral commission, or wherever, in defence of the powers of the Autonomous Community. "What we stand for," he said, "is that Euskadi has a full right to articulate his public policies and that trying to restrict the ability to legislate is an interference of the Spanish government that attacks the Basque self-government." We are glad that this has been said and will be so, but it is no more than this Parliament, as the highest representative body of the Basque Country and as the House that passed these two laws, expressly urges the Government to defend them with all the legal means at its disposal. That is the objective of this initiative. And we also believe that it is appropriate to ask the government which presides over Mr Rajoy to respect as much as possible the self-government of Euskadi and to cease the systematic questioning of the powers conferred on the Autonomous Community by the Statute of Gernika. We believe that the content of our proposal is absolutely respectful and constructive, and capable of obtaining the widest possible support from this House. In fact, the wording of the amendment to the whole presented by EH Bildu is, in its original text, very similar, and there would have been no problem in assembling it, although it has preferred to agree with the Basque Nationalist Party in a kind of transvestite, where those who were most sovereign become statutists and those who were statutists become suddenly sovereignists. And I must say that I was very surprised by the amendment to the whole of the PNV, both in terms of its wording and its tone. And I really hope that he will only respond, although I believe that reality is going to deceive me, to the fact that Mr. Egibar had a bad day and let himself be carried away by his instincts. Because the amendment is absolutely outside the debate we are in today, which is the legal defence of two specific laws, which is not even mentioned in your amendment, by the way, nor in the compromise one either. On the contrary, it goes into another discussion, which may have a connection with the matter, but it does so out of place and out of form, seeking to extract a pronouncement from this Parliament which backs the back door to a particular approach of its party. An approach, Mr Egibar, which is already being dealt with in other areas of this House, such as the self-government presentation, which you so often value and which so often also distort. A presentation where, by the way, it has not even reached the proposed phase. However, you, with this amendment, clearly demarcate from the line established by the Lehendakari Urkullu; you again declare the Statute dead, as in the time of Lizarra, which we believed to be finished; you resurrect the Ibarretxe Plan and, as I say, in matute, you claim that this Plenary supports blind and out of time a position which is yours, your party's; legitimate, but yours alone. A position, that of the new political status, which has not even been exposed or debated in this Parliament or, of course, in the self-government presentation. And I would like to know how it fits what is stated in the PNV amendment with what Mr Urkullu said in the general policy debate on 24 September, unless one or both of them lie and want to deceive us. He said that, without prejudice to what is considered to be non-compliance and to aspire to that still nebulous new formula of relationship that is proposed, the self-government embodied in the Statute of Gernika – and I quote his words textually – "has opened the door to the institutionalization of Euskadi. Its exercise has enabled us to achieve the highest levels of well-being, quality of life and institutional confidence in our history." Something of what you make table rasa. We are talking here, Mr Egibar and ladies and gentlemen, about a very concrete thing: to defend the self-government of citizens, the self-government that affects life and the quality of services that Basque society receives; the one that assures everyone of health, education, social protection, housing, a healthy environment, etc., etc. That is what this proposal speaks of. We'll have time to discuss the other, Mr. Egibar, when you play. The one who serves to fill the sima, that self-government, between those who have everything and those who have hardly anything. The one that guarantees equality of opportunity that does not give birth. That's what we're talking about in this initiative. I hope, although the truth is quite suspicious at the moment, that it will have the greatest support in this House. As I hope the threat of resorting to housing and fracking laws, if it comes to formalization, is the last attack on the self-government of Euskadi carried out by the Rajoy government, and it is because, hopefully, it ceases to be president of the government after the next general elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u22	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Urizar, representing the EH Collect Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u23	Good morning, ma'am. To bring this subject to this Chamber is once more a clear indication of the situation in the Basque Country. It was owing to a political agreement so highly celebrated in this Chamber that it was obtained that the Stateal Autonomy of Guernica should be accepted, and by this peculiarity some privileges were granted to the society of this Ergo. Now, this case is my third example, in which the weight of the will, which was placed in this agreement, was less than that of the paper in which the treaty was written. In the present day, the Socialist Society brings news of the attack upon two decisions taken by this legislature, in which the Spanish Government has announced that it is intended to violate two laws which have been sanctioned by this legislature, but in the same action it expresses itself systematicly that the Spanish Government attacks the jurisdictions of this Union. Thus far the Socialist group is perfectly right, and in accepting what belongs to every one, we must also say that the Poopers are in the same position as themselves in the present state of the self-organization of this Renaissance. And when I talk about the situation, I'm not talking about the happy Arcadia you're trying to sell so often. In the world you wish to make us believe that we have the greatest amount of auto-generonity among them. The real goal, the hidden purpose, from our point of view, was not to comply with the agreement that caused the state, and to make this destitution unimproved or insensable. In three short years' march the state, PSOE signed a restrictive law with UCD. And from that time on, it doesn't matter how coloured the government of Madrid, whether socialist or popular, has been systematically attacked by the Autogony. Because it's not just the self-interest that you're accusing me of now, that's all I'm willing to do, but it's not just that. To attack the government is also to prevent the agreement, and to attack the agreement which you so often praise from the very beginning. Start from LOAPA, continue with organic laws like LOMCE, or, as we hear in the past few days, that the Cupid must be put in hand with those who say that he must put his hand in it. All of them in this Chamber, this is the main feature of using the one-sidedness that is so neglected. This, if the one-sidedness of the Spanish States is not only lawful, but the one-sidedness, if it be used by the euscal society, is unlawful and unlawful. And I tell you, EH Billah will not play with these rules. This people has all the right and the legitimate right to transform the will of the Basque people into reality. And if this way be not in the consentable will, we have all the right to do it with one-sidedness, which is the only limit to the will of those people. I don't even want to leave the incident running and the anxiety it has caused in the great sector of society. On our side we agreed to accept two legal laws that were advanced in this Chamber, contrary to the Housing Act and the fracing, and both of us with opinions and voices that support it. The Spanish Government made public in July, in order to embezzle these legislations, and it would be fun to communicate the laws, but as its initiative was not, there was not a few or nothing in it to negotiate. These expressions and other actions made doubt about the will that would have to do with those laws, and in that sense we saw clear demands not only in the different sectors to defend them, but to develop and economically to provide them with them. It's been a long time since I heard you say that it's gonna be like that. But I think this Chamber is supposed to be a remunerative paper, so we make it public: That the two laws, as well as the majority, must defend themselves with all the means it has, and, moreover, it must be clear that, if it does not develop and economically provide the following regulations, although they are not insolved laws, they will have no opportunity of fulfilling their end. We brought these points, it is true, to-day and our correction was in this sense, but some expressions which we had heard in the last few days, and which are threatening to attack a self-organ in a very clear manner, led us to raise the view and force us to look at the real root of the problem. Mr. Pastor, it's not allowed to report systematic attacks against the eupulous government, and then from your home to the Kupo. That's not allowed. That's cheating. And it's clear that PSOE and PP will play on their interests in the future, as they have done in the past. And this time it's clear that the numbers of general elections aren't given and that you need a girlfriend? Well, I'll put the proposition to change the coupa on the table and make a sign to Ciudadnos. And the interest is, first of all, the interest of the State, first of all, first of all, and then later on, it's a good thing for us, the secondary interest of the Basque Country. We have seen many times in the past, that 36 years ago, the jurisdictions committed in the Common-wealth, which within a few days are bound, or only transferred, to certain particular interests. But when I say their real will, "they" and "they," I am looking at this bank, in some way or another, that their capacity of these powers has been to be abolished. And that's how it is today. As Mr. Egibar has clearly stated this weekend, the real intention of PSOE, in which there is no difference with PP, is to improve the Spanish unity, in point of fact. We don't have to lose sight of that goal. Those who enter into this town have a right to determine their future, we must make a real effort, a real effort, to bring that right to reality. Approved, if possible, by the way of Scotland, by the way of agreements. But if it is not possible, without complexity, to choose also the way of Catalonia, it is certainly a very democratic one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u24	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Mr. Egibar, the Egibar, who is the representative of the team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u25	Thank you. "Two months, two laws," said Mr. Pastor, because two laws were made by this legislature. And as it is a subject associated with the state, so is the state not yet completed in 36 years and years. That's reality, too. I think your initiative, the Socilist Party initiative, and also the President of the Basque Allarity, but at first introduced by the Urizians, the Party and Government position in different debates, I believe that the party, the Journal of the Eudal Party, is an uncomfortable subject, will include a proposition and an initiative. And I think it's true what you said is that your initiative is connected and the full correction of the Collectors. But at the same time it is true, and you have not concealed it, you have mentioned it expressly: This needed more energy, it is not a free request, it is laws that have not been to the liking of the Basque Government, ambiguous attitudes, lukewarmness of Councillor Erkoreka, of Toña, etc., etc. Well, there's a prejudice there. And I believe that the Basque Government from the very first moment, since the two laws were passed, said: they are laws passed by this Parliament, they are laws of this Government. Lehenengo momentutik. So it is that the last reference, the question that Bixen Itxaso asks to the lehendakari last Friday with regard to the housing law, I think I am satisfied, I would say that almost completely, to the honourable Member, for good the guidelines that the lehendakari himself set out here in what can be the defence of the position of the Government from a strictly legal perspective. You say that the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party has nothing to do with what you are proposing. I think so. Because apart from urging the Basque Government to engage the legal services, and you have added it with the expression of "greater energy" to the Basque Government in the defence of interests, it does speak of a truncated issue of self-government in its amendment, when it says that "it urges the Government of Spain to respect the competences contained in the Statute of Gernika and to renounce the systematic questioning of the self-government of Euskadi", systematic questioning, such as that the Spanish Socialist Workers Party has had nothing to do with this systematic questioning over the course of the 36 years. And when it comes to categorizing the Statute, it says: "The result of an agreement between different political sensitivities, which has made it possible to improve the quality of life of citizens". And the amendment tabled by the Basque Nationalist Party, and at the moment it is also part of the transaction, speaks precisely of the disappearance of that consensus which gave rise to the Statute and granted it that political characterization. That consensus has been gone for many years. And the negative consequences of non-compliance with the Statute have been directly suffered by Basque citizens. That is the approach. What is happening here, and the theme of the Economic Concert has also come out of the ring, is that Basque institutions and what is the Statute of Autonomy are always subject to a game. To a game, first, of questioning, of accusations, of privileges, etcetera, etcetera, and then, at the same time, renegotiate. That is, there is a permanent questioning, which forces you to renegotiate again and, at best, to obtain neutrality from those who threaten or question you. And that's what the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party is doing with the theme of Economic Concert or Cup. From time to time, a few ministers or former ministers, who talk about the subject, are taken for granted by the People's Party. So there is a structural questioning that seeks, I don't know, to distract someone, so that the Basques are aware of what we have and who is in danger. Let us forget about other aspirations, lest that which is substantive, is real and effective and has to do with day by day, as it is in danger, let us cling to that position of defense of the Economic Concert. That's what you're looking for. In passing a message is sent to Catalonia saying "look at the Basques what they have and see if they can save the Economic Concert, an issue that you will not have by far." Well, in this game it is pertinent to say what we think of the Statute of Autonomy, defended by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque institutions since October 25, 79, Mr. Pastor. You with very direct responsibilities in non-compliance with the Statute of Autonomy, the various governments presided over by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. Look, last week we were talking about social security or even transitory fifth. What can be called a transitional arrangement, which the negotiators thought was going to articulate the agreement in six months, eight months, at most one year, and has been 36 years. A pending transitional, a mixed commission of transfers that had to have resolved compliance with the Statute of Autonomy in the first year. Man, I think we have a right to talk about this subject. Everyone, with absolute legitimacy, but we do not want to confuse citizens. Let us not be distracted now by the questioning of the economic concert so that this people forgets or relegates in time or displaces in time legitimate demands also of this Parliament. Because we do respect and defend all the positions that most of the Basque Parliament can adopt, all of them. Including those that have reference to or have to do with the structure of the country, in its internal vision or perspective and also in its external relations, which is what the self-government presentation will also have to talk about. And apart from talking about putting black on white. That's a task that we have pending. And we have a perfect right to introduce the second and third points insofar as they have been the pronouncements of this House. On 30 December 2004, this House delivered a majority, and it will do so again as appropriate. These are the rules of play that the Basque Nationalist Party serves and respects. To conclude, I said before, whether the Spanish Government or the Spanish policy has a democratic maturity enough to reach these things. The car is finally in there. Even a new state can be negotiated. We believe in the conversation, and we believe in the negotiation as well as you, and we achieve the most extensive bargain we can without a veto. And in order to obtain extensive compacts, the majority ought to be more preponderant than the majority. That's why, since we've been transcribed that middle media, we're going to vote for the three points on our side. One, reference to the state, at the same time the injury it has caused to the Basque Society in a social and economic area. The right of this Chamber to propose changes. And of course the original, if there be anything to be acknowledged in the origin of the Common-wealth of Guernica, is a political nature; That we are a people and as we are a people, we have the right to decide. But the original columns of origin look to the future, which are so simple, but so strong.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u26	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing to the non-correction teams round Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u27	Thank you very much, President. We are faced with a new parliamentary initiative not so much to defend the content of two laws passed by this Parliament, the housing law and the fracking law, as to defend the competences of Euskadi. With these limbs, the debate has become, as we are seeing, a debate on self-government. But I believe that in the light of the Socialist Group's parliamentary initiative, it was foreseeable that this would be the case, and finally that is what has happened. Hence the amendments tabled by the various groups and hence the compromise finally signed by the Nationalist Group and the EH Bildu Group. The initiative was a new attempt by the Socialist Group to occupy a certain nationalist space and to continue to defend that false nationalist maxim that prays that the more they govern themselves better, even regardless of what they decide to do with that self-government and those powers. We can therefore conclude that the Socialist Group's initiative has not been successful, the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu have gone further. Nationalism always goes beyond, nationalism offers nationalism and the problem is that the Socialist Party offers nationalism, even if it is nationalism on a children's menu. In any case, let us look at the justification for the Socialist Group's initiative. He initially criticized the Government of Spain for announcing its intention to challenge housing and fracking laws, and recalled that the Basque Government of Patxi López responded forcefully when similar events occurred in the past. Socialists come to say to the Basque Nationalist Party: take an example of what we did. With regard to forcefulness, what I hope from a government is above all that it responds with arguments and that these are forceful, that is the best way to respond forcefully. Moreover, the Socialist Group recalls that Lakua has promoted several resources of unconstitutionality and positive conflicts of competences and that it keeps open the defense of other basic norms to what they call systematic challenges of the Spanish Executive. The Socialist Group made it clear that it is prepared to accompany the Basque Government in defending the supposed competences of Euskadi. We believe that both the Basque Government and the Government of Spain have a perfect right to appeal and challenge all the rules they consider, and that it must be the Constitutional Court that clarifies who is right in each case, or the bilateral commission before. Also in these specific cases of the housing law, which we support, and the fracking law, which we do not support, we abstained. I understand that if both laws were passed by this Parliament, it is because there is a parliamentary majority that thinks that both laws are not only just and necessary, but perfectly constitutional and approved according to the competences we have. In any case, we will accept what the Constitutional Court or the bilateral commission says. Now the Socialist Group wants the Basque Government to defend our powers, perhaps seeking the contradiction in the PNV, so that it has to defend its government even a law that it does not share, the housing law. In any case, we have already seen why the debate and the amendments tabled are going. If we look at the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Group, it does present an amendment that it did not dare to present in other debates in this House on self-government or model state, and we thank it. The Socialist Group presented an initiative on self-government and the Basque Nationalist Party accepted the debate. This seems good to me in principle. What does this amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party say? In the first point, it regrets the repeated breaches of the Statute of Gernika, but forgetting that the competences contained in the Statute of Gernika must be negotiated between the Basque and Spanish governments and cannot be automatically transferred. And this should be remembered as often as necessary: there cannot be an automatic transfer of the powers contained in the Statute, there must be a negotiation between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. On the other hand, the fact that the Statute is not fully completed, although in essence, does not mean that all groups must demand that the Basque Government demand all the remaining competences. It is sometimes better for certain powers to be placed in a higher place and, therefore, that the Basque Government does not assume them. It is therefore customary for UPyD not to urge the Basque Government or the Government of Spain to transfer certain competences, because we believe that this is not good for the whole country and therefore for the whole citizenry. With regard to the second point of the amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party, he reiterated the idea that an autonomous statute could change the Spanish Constitution through the facts, forgetting once again that the reform of the Spanish Constitution was decided by all Spanish citizens, that the territorial model of the State was decided by all Spanish citizens, and that the right to decide on issues affecting us all belonged to all Spanish citizens. And they resurrect the Ibarretxe Plan, which so much division and so much confrontation provoked in Euskadi. In its third point, it claims, first, a pact between Euskadi and Spain, as if Euskadi were not part of Spain, in the usual trickery that Basque nationalism has been manipulating words and telling lies or half truths for ever. And Euskadi claims as a nation, I don't know whether outside or not, and he tries to sell us another lie, that the right to decide assists us and that the Basque citizens do not share citizenship with the rest of the citizens of Spanish citizens. And from the transactional that he has finally signed, the same arguments are worth, because practically those same ideas are collected. Reclaim and say again that it is false and it is a fallacy the right to decide that they claim again here today the Basque Nationalist group and EH Bildu. There is no such right to decide. The right to decide on matters falling within the competence of the State rests with all Spanish citizens. And here we can make decisions on the basis of our competences, but there is no right to decide that they will again claim the Basque Nationalist group and EH Bildu, which will again claim nationalism. It is false, that right to decide that you pose does not exist. Therefore, in the face of so many lies, it is urgent, Mr Egibar, that you do two things urgently. First, ask the lehendakari for the book I gave you last Thursday, because you need it too. And second thing you have to do, listen to me carefully. The Spanish Constitution must be reformed, yes, but through established legal procedures. The Spanish Constitution must be reformed, yes, but with the participation and right to decide of all Spanish citizens. And the Spanish Constitution must be reformed, yes, but not to further divide the country, but to strengthen its unity and defend more well-being and equality for all. At this point I have to say that I rebel against certain ideas. It turns out that in Euskadi saying that someone defends a united and strong Euskadi is something progressive, and yet, when that is said in relation to the country of which we are part, that is, Spain, it turns out that it is a matter of facsimile. If you say that we need a strong and united Euskadi, it's a progressive thing, and yet when someone says that we want a strong and united Spain, it's a facsimile thing. If the same is said again in relation to Europe, it automatically becomes progressive again; if someone says that we want a united and strong Europe, that is something progressive. I repeat the three ideas: a united and strong Euskadi, a united and strong Spain, and a united and strong Europe. Nor do I doubt that you will take advantage or try to take advantage of the weakness of the State, as I told the Lehendakari in the plenary of general policy, to continue taking steps towards independence. And that is essential not so much what you do, but what the rest of us do, and not just in this Parliament, but in Spain as a whole. Because, without a doubt, nationalism, nationalisms are a serious problem for Spain, but perhaps the inconsistencies, the complexities, the fears of those political parties that are not nationalist but that in the moment of truth they behave as if they were. In conclusion, and by closing the debate on this initiative, one, both the Basque Government and the Government of Spain are in their perfect right to appeal against all laws or rules they consider unconstitutional or invade jurisdiction. Two, which the bilateral commission or, where appropriate, the Constitutional Court shall rule on. And at this point, of course, we should remember the politicization of justice in Spain; both the General Council of the Judiciary, as well as the Constitutional Court, and the Supreme Court are colonized by political parties and urge their decolonization, professionalization and depoliticization, so that their resolutions have greater legitimacy. Thirdly, this debate again shows that Spain needs a reform of the autonomous state, a reform of the state model, in order to reform the autonomous model and to clarify, define and define perfectly the competences of each government: the Government of Spain, the Basque Government. And this is what's left to be done. Because, if not, these debates will return as often as there is a competitive conflict between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. That debate on the autonomous state is therefore urgent, in order to clarify clearly the competences and to let each government know exactly what competences it has and which ones it can exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u28	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u29	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Egun where you're going. Counselor, good morning. One who still maintains some ingenuity, in good faith, but who remains accredited, came to this Parliament to debate about a non-law proposal that says some things, but the debate has drifted towards another. I am going to try to postpone, out of respect for the proposer, the debate in the terms proposed, but we will also have to enter into some of the manifestations, some political considerations that have been made in this rostrum. In the end, I believe that we could all come to agree, to agree that a state of modern law is based, among many other things, primarily on the observance and enforcement of the law for its functioning. The rules of which this rule of law is endowed oblige both citizens'rights and obligations, but also the rights and obligations of public administrations themselves and, in particular, Governments. They also give citizens rights, therefore, but also rights to administrations and governments in defending their interests, the law or an alleged violation of the rule. Therefore, in modern decentralized states, in politically and administratively decentralized states, governments are provided with tools to defend their rights and competences when they legitimately understand – wrongly or correctly, but legitimately – that these powers, that these rights have been violated. And this happens in all modern decentralized countries. It happens in Germany fundamentally and it happens in any other decentralized country that comes to mind. All governments, whether decentralized or the federal state, in this case the German, and in this case our central state, have legal tools to defend their rights, their powers, when they believe that they have been violated. And the units also have them – let me use this expression – decentralized. They have it in Germany, a perfectly established procedure to defend their interests when they believe they have been violated, and our autonomous state has it. They have tools to defend this alleged violation of competences. And this is framed within the normal functioning of the system, of our institutions. I therefore believe that here in this rostrum and on this subject there has been a certain dramatic imposture to try to seek other intentions, generally negative from a political point of view, to the use of those legal tools that equip administrations to defend their rights or competences. Well, today we have a debate that rejects this. At the initiative of the Socialist Party, which joins the nationalist mantra, which says that all this is a little more or less a Jewish conspiracy to empty the Basque autonomy of content, Basque autonomy joins the Socialist Party in that victimist thesis of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Government. And it speaks of a competitive invasion, until now only the Basque Nationalist Party, now also joins the Socialist Party, when even resources have not yet been brought before the Constitutional Court. The central Government has not yet brought any constitutional action on the rules referred to, on the laws referred to in this rostrum. Certainly unlike the Basque Government, which does have recourse to the Constitutional Court some rules of the central government, in the exercise of its free competence and the tools conferred on it by the rule of law. But the central Government has not yet appealed, it has not yet appealed to the Constitutional Court. It has activated something that the proponent himself has recognized, an instrument that is prior, that is strictly political, that is that arbitral commission, it is that bilateral negotiating commission to try to resolve from a political point of view a discrepancy in the interpretation of the norm. Look, this is the normal functioning of the institutions, it's the normal functioning of the rule of law. Someone who feels aggrieved, someone who believes that the rule is being violated, resorts to a court and before even resorts to a political body to settle the differences. That's it, that's it. Interpretations are made, because then politics enters, of who believes this is a conspiracy, it is a political construction to empty autonomy from content. It did not happen when the Constitutional Court denied a similar law, in this case housing in Andalusia, there was talk of defending the fundamental rights of citizens, in this case private property. Not here. Here when the same is announced or is intended to correct the same that has been intended to correct in Andalusia, here is to empty the Basque autonomy of content. In Andalusia it could be simply defending fundamental rights, in this case, I insist, the private property that Andalusians have, but not here. Here we mix everything, distort it and turn it into a problem of a political nature, which has only political solutions, when it is a problem, in any case, of discrepancy in the interpretation of the norm. And I say it's surprising that the Socialist Party is giving this back to the strategy of the Basque Nationalist Party. Congratulations, Mr Egibar, you have added to the Socialist Party this thesis, in our view, politically demented and politically interested, a thesis that distorts reality. And you turn, I insist, into something exceptional with avious political intent, something that is nothing more than the ordinary exercise of administrations in defense of their interests. Well, what have you, members of the Socialist Party, achieved, which is probably also in addition to my initial naivety, but from another point of view? For you have achieved a compromise amendment in which we return again with the usual racca-raca. We don't think about how we offer a better service to the citizen, we don't think about whether things are being done right, but, as the Basque Nationalist Party and Bildu say, Bildu also adds, at its first point, to this thesis of non-compliance with the Statute of Autonomy, "the non-compliances have affected and negatively affect in social and economic terms the whole of Basque citizenship". Nothing more and nothing less. I mean, once again the problem is someone else's. Since there is a recourse to the housing law, which has not yet been introduced, as there is a recourse to the so-called fracking law, which has not yet been introduced, this shows that all the evils in Euskadi are the fruit of an outside enemy, of an outside culprit and not of those who have been ruling, except four years, continuously this Autonomous Community, which will have some responsibility. And when speaking on the second point of "the political will approved by this Parliament and dealt with in the General Courts in 2005", that is, the Ibarretxe Plan, as a demonstration of democratic quintessence, I do not know what goes beyond a nostalgic issue, Mr Egibar, the identification of the Ibarretxe Plan as one of the problems. And Mr Egibar when he talks about the fact that the consensus on the Statute has been broken for many years. When did it break? Was it broken when Arzalluz said Aznar was a great statesman in the late '90s? Was it broken already or did it break later? Did you break up at the time, Mr. Egibar? Or when Francisco Álvarez Cascos came every two for three to Sabin Etxea invited by you to eat, in that first legislature of the first government of Aznar? It wasn't broken there. Is it broken later? That's a lot of years. It would be wise to know. Or is loyalty to the Statute of Autonomy broken when Mr Ibarretxe unilaterally presents the so-called Ibarretxe Plan, which breaks the statutory consensus in this Autonomous Community? That's where the central government breaks it? Should they have silenced the rest of the political groups and swallowed, accepted Mr. Ibarretxe's tragala, his with a part of the left abertzale? Did it break in there? Was it broken when Mr. Ardanza, at the end of his last Legislature, presented the so-called Ardanza Plan, which also broke constitutional consensus and autonomous consensus? Is it always the others' fault, Mr. Egibar? Will the Socialist Party follow this strategy of the Basque Nationalist Party, which tends to always blame others and not assume its own responsibilities in mistakes? I'm sure they did, but no mistakes either. It would be appropriate for Basque politics to be given something more calm and also something more humble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u30	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing over to the answer shift, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u31	I have listened to you carefully, Mr. Egibar, and I still do not understand you. With that pilgrim argument that you have put on the table that you have to talk here about the Ibarretxe Plan and the new policies, and about the right to consultation and the right to decide, because we are talking at a specific point in defence of two laws adopted by this Parliament, because according to that argument, I suppose that you, every time we debate in this Parliament a proposal for a law, a bill or any other type of legislative initiative that touches even, as a matter of fact, something that has to do with Basque powers, which will be almost all, I suppose you will present me with an amendment of these characteristics, because it is the same absurd argument that you have used me. That is, if this serves everything, every time there is an uncomfortable debate for you I get the corresponding scare, and besides these gentlemen buy it from you, lately more and more, I think this is cheating in solitary and not wanting to respond to the very responsibilities of the ruling party. But look, I will tell you what the debate we have wanted to bring to this House and from which you have wanted to get out of the tangent in order not to enter it. We have brought an initiative to ensure the exercise of our competences, point and end, so hard and so simple, those which we have recognized, so that this Government can defend them with conviction, in the face of attacks by others. And by the way, Mr. Semper, we haven't made a reference here that this is some sort of anti-vasc conspiracy of Mr. Rajoy. No, it's worse. We have talked about that Mr Rajoy has a re-centralizing political conception of the state, of thinking – and they have also made it explicit in articles of opinion and conferences – that they have to start taking on more powers to the detriment of the autonomy, of the autonomous state that we have in Spain and that it has been a model of success. That's what we criticize. And then you make an interpretation, as always partial, today sometimes yes, sometimes no, you get somewhat biased information, Mr Egibar. You criticise me that I have said that Mr Erkoreka and Mr Toña made dissenting statements when the respective laws were passed. But it's true. Or do you not remember a press conference by Mr Erkoreka, here present, saying that the housing law was going to have an effect called global, nothing less, planetary? What kind of statements were those? But then you forget to mention that I too have acknowledged that this position was rectified by the Government and that the lehendakari defended it. Therefore, when you say one thing, you say the other, unless you want to deceive. And we are referring in this proposal to the real attacks, those that are now concrete in the announced purpose – it is true that it has not yet been formalized, but announced – by the Rajoy government to challenge two laws adopted by this Parliament. Of course, you're starting to tell me that the consensus has been broken, that when the consensus has been broken we have to throw it down the street from the middle. But what you're going to say to me is "how the consensus was broken, I propose a dissent to you in return." That is the alternative that you propose to us: as that consensus I understand that you broke it, I bet on something else. What's the other thing? Dissense. Knowing that entry already leaves the Basque society in half. That's your proposal. And I would recommend to you, gentlemen of the PNV, and also to the gentlemen of the PP, although you have not said it in this rostrum, Mr Semper, that you stop suffering from blows that you have not received and that it is not even certain that they will occur. Don't be so victimistic to me. And I am referring to certain statements that have been heard over these days about the Cup, about the Concert, about the Socialists' position. I speak for some statement by some prominent leader of his party, such as the former deputy general of Álava, Mr. de Andrés, a few days ago. But, finally, we already know that the nationalisms, and especially that of Mr Egibar, are specialists in feeling assaulted, in putting on the bandage with strepit, even if it has not hurt any, and of that we are attending much to these days, because victimism has gone well, it is good to continue to exploit it. And now we are seeing it with the matter of the Concert and the Cup, to which Bildu has also made surprisingly reference, where instead of doing pedagogy, they opt for the melodrama, that is, life is a pure theater and you are the Nuria Espert of the stage. More theater than anyone and more posture than anyone. Instead of explaining with reasons what is the mechanics of the Cup, which regulates financial relations, no, it is better to throw your legs aside, to appropriate the Cup as if it were yours, your property, and to use it as a political weapon. Well, look, I'm going to say no, because if the Concert has ever been at the trigger, it's because of you, when for a perverse and tortuous use of fiscal holidays, we end up in the European Union with a very serious discussion that could have ended the Concert. And it was the socialists who, through the state's attorney, because there was then a socialist government, who managed to get the European Union to recognize that there were five haciendas in this country: the four of the outlying territories and the state's hacienda. And not you, what you did was provoke the European Union to take that issue there for misuse of the instrument that was applied in your day. And it was also a socialist government that proposed that nothing less than the Law of the Constitutional Court and the Law of the Judiciary be amended to shield the outlaws, those of a fiscal nature, which were also subject to permanent questioning, by the way, by many of the autonomy of the People's Party. Therefore, that you intend to give us lessons in the defense of the Concert I will not admit, because the Concert is not defended by grandiose statements, but by facts. And the facts we have on the table well contrasted, Mr. Egibar.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u32	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Urizar, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u33	Thank you, ma'am. Very short. Three maxims seem to have been here intended to be set down as if the truth were to be reassembled, and to be briefly refuted. Meniro said there is no right to decide. This is not the case with the majority of this people. Here the majority of that people is represented, and does not think so. And clearly, because in a democratic principle, because we believe that it is fundamental, we shall work to make this right a reality. What does not exist, or that at least will not exist, may be your political choice. Therefore the right of deciding exists, because this people express it. Mr. Sémper. He tried to sell us a Jewish and Mason conspiracy over and over again. And, on the contrary, what you want to sell is that there are normal means of managing the differences between the organizations, no problem at all. But you're willing to sell us that there is also a division of power, and we don't believe that the division of power in Spain exists. That's also a fundamental principle. Because there is a division of power, but then PP, with his votes one-sidedly, decides to change the law in Madrid and give it other powers to the Constitution of the Court against Catalonia. Since then the division of power does not exist, there is no normality. And to Mr. Pastor, another maxim. When the foundation is broken, the process is proposed, and that is divided into society. And isn't breaking up the consensus to divide society? Or do some people do what they want here, and do we have to say it for mothers?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u34	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u35	Mr Pastor, when I referred to the Economic Concert and to the discussion or debate on the Cup, I spoke of distraction maneuvers, which from time to time, I do not know if orchestrated, if less induced, are provoked debates. Then, there is the debate about the Economic Concert, about the modulation or not of the Cup, etc., in which people who are political or institutional responsible need to express their opinions. And this has much to do with what the spokesman of the People's Party, Semper, was asking me: when has the development of the Statute, of self-government been good, when it ruled such, what, the qualification of one or another. When the violation of the Statute becomes structural, and the Basque Government or the Basque Nationalist Party with representation in the General Courts, the deputies and senators, could be not determinant but influential, it is when the progress in self-government has occurred. And that is, of course, the perversion of what can be an organic law, which is mandatory. But the political, parliamentary needs of Felipe González, Mr Aznar and others, to the extent that they needed... And someone will be able to say, "Because that's marketing." It will be marketing, but the Basque Nationalist Party has used every opportunity to negotiate and develop the Statute of Gernika. But no one imagines an organic law that is not fulfilled at least in its entirety. No one imagines you can have a traffic code in which 35 precepts are invalidated. It would be circular chaos, not knowing exactly what is in force. So, what have you had? Well, a re-centralizing state at all times. And this starts in the '80s, it's been mentioned before. Ten months after the constitution of the Basque Government, after having endorsed the Statute of Autonomy, there was a coup d'état, and as a result LOAPA. And the characterization of that LOAPA... Yeah, tell me the Constitutional Court dismantled it. No, the spirit has been planning in the institutional political reality of the development of the Statute of Gernika, that is so. So, it breaks. When does it break? From the same moment, the year 80-81, when the Statute of Autonomy is already being breached and everything is submitted to a renegotiation, is when the breach of the Statute of Gernika begins. And it has only developed at times of need of the different Spanish governments. It is so, it is our point of view and our experience of course. Mr. Maneiro was talking about the right to decide... there have been two interventions here, among others, in the self-government presentation. One I mean because he had responsibilities here, Mr. Jáuregui, and he is questioned and is literal. When he talks about the right to decide, he says: "Democratically, in abstract terms, discuss whether a community can go away or how independence can be achieved, etc., because it is a matter that we can discuss in many ways but which, in my opinion, does not have to have a specific regulation for separation, but a democratic will to accept the political negotiation with which those majorities express themselves. We will see what they are all about," he referred to Catalonia, "but don't ask me to include in our Constitution the right to separate or to consult prior to the negotiation for independence, because the State really doesn't see that as the logical destination of its future." He's right. He says, "The Spanish Constitution is not going to open the doors to the right to say." But it says: "If in a democratic, forceful and time-transmitted way you want to alter the status, you have to negotiate." And there is another journalistic reference for this very interesting weekend, from another rapporteur called by the Socialist Party, who talks about what are the processes of social legitimation. And he says that the state has to react and that it has to offer. Why? Because if you cling to that immutable legality, there is a deterioration or social delegitimization of that legality, which you have to face. And that's what we're talking about. And I have spoken, and I have taken up the second point in the amendment, because it is a democratic attempt embodied in the law of this Parliament, that of the amendment of the Statute of Autonomy of Gernika, the one in force, through 46.1 to amend. And that is what this Parliament approved on 30 December 2004 and defended itself in the Congress of Deputies and was not even admitted for discussion. That's the reality. And as this goes with unity and perfecting unity, the Socialist Party has there... I think they're walking in that race of "let's perfect the project of the unity of Spain." But they are talking about that unitary state closed in itself, which contemplates no other reality than the Spanish nation itself. And that is not the way, it is not the way that other socialists are proposing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u36	Finish up, Mr. Egibar.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u37	Ba bukatuko had to. Zergatik Rubalcabak esaten zuen, zita isugarria da. He said: "We cannot, we must not play with the Socialist Party of Spanish Workers. We are the Socialist Workers' and Spanish Party, and none of these four things have to be renounced. We have assumed to be the party that vertebrates Spain, the state of autonomy. The genetic code of the PSOE is to vertebrate Spain." Then open the debate a little.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u38	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Mr. Maneiro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u39	Thank you, President. Mr Urizar, Mr Egibar, right to decide yes, right to decide no, exists, does not exist. The right to decide does exist. All modern democratic constitutions are based on the right to decide. What I am saying is that there is no right to decide what you are proposing, the right to decide nationalist, which it finally proposes is that there be a part of citizenship that cannot decide. And that is the key issue and the fundamental difference between the right to decide which I stand for and the right to decide from the nationalists. In other words, in order to reform the Constitution, all Spanish citizens must decide. To reform the state, we must decide on all Spanish citizens. And this is something nationalism does not assume. Therefore, when I speak of fallacy, I am referring to the fallacy of the right to decide by the nationalists, which is basically based on the fact that there is a part of the citizenship, that is, the other Spanish citizens, who cannot exercise that right to decide. In relation, therefore, to the housing law, fracking law, about these laws we already position ourselves. There will be recourse or there will be no recourse. In any case, we will respect what the bilateral commission says or agrees with what the Constitutional Court says. Both the Basque Government and the Government of Spain have the right to appeal against those rules which they consider unconstitutional or violate certain competences. But in any case, in a unitary state like the one we have, because we have a unitary state, and in a decentralized state, because we have a decentralized state, it is logical and normal that there may be certain competing conflicts that need to be resolved. In any case, I believe that what this debate highlights are basically two things: that we must reform the autonomous state and that we must reform the Spanish Constitution. Joseba Egibar said the state has to react. Indeed, the State has to react, but not to give you reason, but to take it away, to make Spain a more attractive and better and more united country, a country where there is more equality and more well-being, not so that there is less, not so that citizenship is divided, but so that it is a strong and united country within such a strong and united Spain. So, yes, you have to react and you have to be present, but just the opposite of what you are proposing. And therefore, we will have to reform everything that is reformable, through the legal procedures established and with the participation of all Spanish citizens. Not to split the country into 17 autonomous taifas or turn it into something different from what it is, not to raise new internal borders, but to end and tear down those that still exist. And the second thing that highlights this debate is the incoherence of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, I don't know if with all the letters or with the letters that remain, and that proves that he doesn't know what he wants. The Spanish Socialist Workers Party doesn't know what it wants. And I'm especially sorry, I'm very sorry. And there is also evidence, not only the incoherence of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, which is in that crazy race to try to be a little nationalist, but it also shows – and has become evident in the last few days with the issue related to the Economic Concert and the Cup – the incoherence of the People's Party. Why? Because the Spanish Socialist Workers Party defends one thing in Euskadi and something different in the rest of Spain, and because the People's Party defends one thing in Euskadi and something different in Spain. A few months ago, in the Madrid Assembly itself, the People's Party voted in favour of an UPyD initiative, calling for the abolition of the Economic Concert and the Cup. And we are knowing and listening to the statements of different socialist leaders. There is the problem and there is the crux of the issue, the inconsistencies and the complexes of the People's Party and the Socialist Party to defend the unity of Spain and to defend a more modern and better country, where it is argued that there is more equality for all Spanish citizens. Because the nationalists already know what they want. The problem of Spain is not so much the peripheral nationalisms, which try to break that country, but also. The fundamental problem is the complexities and fears of the People's Party and the Socialist Party to deal with this nationalist struggle. And the truth, and we have heard it in the last few days, is that the People's Party and the Socialist Party, in relation to the Economic Concert and the Cup, defend one thing outside of Euskadi and within defend another. And that is so, because there have been many debates in different municipalities and in different autonomous communities and the PP says different things depending on where it is and the Socialist Party says different things depending on where it is. And who takes advantage of all that? For, of course, the nationalists, who are hoping that the weaknesses of the State will widen and be able to break through and continue to take steps towards independence. In any case, with regard to the Economic Concert and the Cup, in the next few days we will have the opportunity to discuss again in depth in this House, because we have already recorded an inquiry, which will then become the corresponding motion, so that all groups will be retracted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u40	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In conclusion, Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u41	Thank you, Madam President. In addition to Mr. Pastor's accusations, concerning Rajoy, that he must have a re-centralizing conception of the state – that is to know little about Mr. Rajoy–, he told us that we felt assaulted, he came to say that how you feel assaulted. No, it's political discrepancy, Mr. Pastor. Its federal model would charge the Economic Concert foresight and its proposed reform of LTH distorts it. It's not that we feel assaulted, it's that we disagree deeply. We do believe in the Economic Concert, Mr. Maneiro, here and anywhere. The People's Party defends the Economic Concert here anywhere, before, now and surely tomorrow, unlike what Rosa Díez does, who once defended it and now seems not to. We are reliable and in this respect we have no doubt. And in relation to Mr Egibar, when he claims that statutory non-compliance is structural – and he has finally started to encrypt it today in the 1980s as many as the beginning of structural non-compliance – it would not be as structural, I insist, when Mr Arzalluz says that Mr Aznar is a great statesman with whom he has reached agreements on matters with which the Socialist Party had not achieved in 13 years. It would not be so structural when the transfers of active employment policies materialise in the past legislature, for example, as the last major transfer, and you are tangled to hinder it. It would not be so structural when, during the autonomous development and the Statute in Euskadi, positive progress has been made, except when the Basque Nationalist Party was not a co-protagonist or did not participate. Then the transfers had to be intertwined and then the transfers had to be questioned, such as, I insist, the last major transfer, in relation to active employment policies. And what's going on, Mr. Egibar, we're going to be clear and we're going to be straight, it's where trust broke. And what you can't do is ask for loyalty in statutory development when you're being permanently disloyal. When the Basque Nationalist Party, on the one hand, embraces the fulfilment of the Statute of Autonomy, and on the other hand, it breakfasts and surprises us from time to time with proposals to break the statutory model. Because we're going to be clear too, Mr. Egibar, and let's make a fiction. If tomorrow were to be fulfilled, if tomorrow were to be executed the pending transfers, all, next week, all, would you stop being independent? Would you continue to advocate for the breakup, for the change of status, for that new political status? Would he? What loyalty can be expected when someone asks for law enforcement, but from behind he says he wants to break that same framework that supports statutory development? What you have to do is at once an exercise in political honesty, Mr Egibar. And I have once told you, these gentlemen, with whom we disagree a great deal and routinely, say that they are independent and defend him. You're not so clear and you're not so transparent. The question is why. The question is why one day they appear as adalides of statutory development and other days they want a new political status. What are you afraid of? To Basque society and the response of Basque society to these maximalist approaches? Is that it? Another question that we should also ask ourselves with absolute transparency. What do we do in that self-government paper? What the hell are we doing wasting our time, apparently, in that self-government paper, when you already advance what you want? Which is the Ibarretxe Plan re-edited in 2015, 2016, 2017, when you please of course, not Basque society, when according to your interests and electoral calculations suits you. Or the famous right to decide. Because if that's the end we're going to save ourselves a lot of meetings and a lot of waste of time, Mr. Egibar. Because in the official speeches of both Mr Lehendakari and the Basque Nationalist Party in this House, the self-government speech serves, and the Lehendakari on many occasions has responded "that it is decided by the self-government speech, that they agree, that they debate" – forgive me, Mr Lehendakari, that I do not remember exactly what I agree, debate and then approval and these things – which is an exceptional measure to evade the debate and not to say what they really think, but you also reveal it to us in parliamentary sessions. And if there is anything positive about these debates, it is that at least we know another position of the Basque Nationalist Party, I do not know if it is so official, but more parliamentary and it is Plan Ibarretxe and right to decide. Clear out! But not for you, but for the others. So that we can debate on an equal footing with you. Because stealing the debate and stealing on the basis of hiding what you really think, what you do is stealing from others the possibility of debating on equal terms. Independentists, they say it and they keep it. No independenceists, we say it and we keep it. What are you? Make it clear to us! Because a few days they want the development of the Statute of Autonomy and another day a new political status, right to decide and independence. Please clarify, Mr. Egibar. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u42	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of another proposal like the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters 15; counters, 57; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u43	This original text was not therefore accepted. Then we vote for the middle-term correction signed by the EH Collectors and Eubertists. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 47; counters, 25; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u44	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The other proposal, as the Julian team had made, concerning financial aid in social distress. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs Garrido, the representative of the Basque Group, has the word to present and defend her initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, all good days. We have discussed this subject several times, and it is not the first. We have arranged in this parliament, except for the Jestric Party of the Eusia, a group which contributes to the Government has not here agreed with the agreements which the other parties have made on this subject, and has always been outside. In view of the conduct of this government, we have seen it convenient to present a project on this subject again. This is not the first time that this group has put forward this initiative in this House so that the Basque Government, let us hope for once and for all, will finance the coverage of social emergency aid and thus cover the demand for existing needs. There have been agreements in this legislature, some of which have been promoted by this parliamentary group. Agreements specifically, on 10 October 2013, on 12 June 2014, on 23 October 2014, i.e. every year, seeing that this Government fails to fulfil parliamentary mandates and seeing that this Government does not sufficiently meet the social emergency aid and the existing demand – which is certainly managed by the municipalities, but the funding is the responsibility of the Basque Government – we see ourselves again in the need to present this initiative. It does draw attention to the fact that the Basque Nationalist Party has also suffered its inconsistencies in this specific debate. Because I would like to recall that one of the first debates that the social spokesman raised at the time of the previous parliamentary term, Mrs Eider Mendoza, here brings the debate to the House an initiative on which there was unanimous agreement, in which it was said that the Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government to enable the necessary budget to meet all the states of need that are accredited to the concept of social emergency aid and whose recipients meet the requirements of the call. Then they changed things. The Basque Nationalist Party returned to the government, the Socialist Party ceased to be in the government, but it drew attention to this change of position twice by the Basque Nationalist Party. When they have ruled they never support initiatives of this nature, when they pass to the opposition they take the initiative to the House, an agreement is signed unanimously, and then when they again take over the government in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country the others put forward the same initiatives that were approved, that they pushed, and vote not. There is also an inconsistency, and I believe that it is going to be expressed today in this House, between the position that the group supporting the Government, the Basque Nationalist Party here, with which there has been in the City Hall of Vitoria, in which all the groups unanimously have signed an agreement, have reached an agreement, in which the Basque Government is expressly asked once again to pay enough for this social emergency aid. I am afraid that Mr Urtaran is not going to be very successful, despite having voted in favour of this initiative, because I say that it was unanimously adopted in the City Hall. I also have to say that we, the Group of the European People's Party, systematically seeing non-compliance, apart from presenting the initiatives, also submit every year an amendment to the budgets in order to increase the amount initially budgeted, the amount initially allocated for these aids. And I also have to say, and here I do have to put the rest of the groups, not just the group that supports the government, but the rest of the groups, the Socialist Party in particular, say no. Obviously it is not baladi, especially seeing that in the last budgetary agreements they have gone hand in hand. We are faced with regular aid. It is true that there is no subjective right in relation to these aids, they are aid contained in the Law for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Exclusion, Law 18/2008 of 23 December. As I said, they are periodic benefits of an economic and subsidizing nature, intended to meet sufficient resources to meet regular expenses necessary to alleviate situations of emergency and social marginalization. There is therefore a peremptory and urgent need to deal with a situation of lack or tightness of economic resources that occurs at a given time, and then it is necessary to cover these economic situations, caused, as I said, by an unexpected event. They are final and are intended for the object for which they have been granted. As I said, we all know, because it is one of the arguments Mrs Arregi used in this rostrum, because she always uses it, which is not aid configured as subjective right. Indeed, they are not aid defined as a subjective right, but there are provisions provided for in the Law on Income Guarantee and Social Exclusion, which expressly states that the Basque Government shall make sufficient provision to guarantee all applications. That is to say, the Basque Government has an obligation to enable those budgetary amounts necessary to satisfy these aid, which are then to be covered by the municipalities, where, I repeat, it is not within its competence. I have to say that, also with regard to social emergency aid, this group has also put forward initiatives to ensure that the annual order for the granting of the abovementioned maximum annual amounts is published in January, because the Basque Government was not very diligent here either, and there has also been agreement on this issue. As I said, we are proposing an initiative, which is what we have always proposed, to ratify the agreements in this House with regard to the extension of the budget allocation to finance social emergency aid, and, accordingly, to put in place the sufficient amount to guarantee all the applications received in the municipalities during this year and that they meet the requirements laid down in the law in force and which governs this issue. Also, as we have always done, we have urged the Basque Government to give the highest priority to the processing of appropriate transfers and the provision of resources to cover each of the specific costs by the municipalities. And we also call for a new effort, and I announce that if we do not present, as always, the corresponding amendment, that in the 2016 budgets the necessary economic base is recorded to meet all requests for social emergency aid. We have reached a compromise. I have to say that the agreement reached basically reproduces, in what it has to do with urging the Basque Government because for that reason we are in the Parliamentary Chamber, the agreement of the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz. And to me, in principle, I was doubted whether the Basque Nationalist Party could support it in this House. For a matter of political coherence, it would have to be that yes, simply by supporting and supporting what his political representative, Mr Urtaran, has signed and what his political representative, Mr Urtaran, at the time mayor of Vitoria-Gasteiz, has signed. But it seems that this is not going to be the case, it seems that again we will see little political will expressed in Mrs Arregi, who is in the group supporting the Basque Government, the spokesman on these issues, that this initiative is not going to be approved, unless, of course, it surprises us. I am saying that it is the compromise amendment agreed at the City Council of Vitoria, but given the repeated breaches, it seemed appropriate at the outset to mention that once and for all the Basque Government is complying with the agreements approved with regard to the processing and financing of social emergency aid. I believe that the voice of this House, before unanimous when the Basque Nationalist Party was in the opposition, and now not unanimous, is very clear on this issue and therefore there is a parliamentary mandate that you should fulfil and you should already pay attention to it, more than anything so that in the end the municipalities are not pagans of the abandonment of responsibilities than once again in this matter of the Basque Government. I would like to thank the parties that have amended this initiative, the Socialist Party, EH Bildu, I believe that UPyD had no amendments, but it will approve the initiative in line with the position maintained and that it has once again enabled us to agree in the sense I have described. Besterik gabe, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u46	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representatives of the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Sarasu, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u47	Eskerrik asko. Egun on, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to start by recalling that a total of 80 Basque municipalities had to contribute €8.1 million in 2014 to finance social emergency aid with their own budget. And these data are those contained in the reply given to us by Mr Toña here on the budgetary implementation of these aid in 2014. I think this is important. I would also like to say that almost a year ago, in this House, the monographic plenary session was held to deal with unemployment and poverty, and among the resolutions adopted, the Basque Government was already urged, taking into account the special difficulties faced by many large and single-parent families in meeting all their needs, people living in poverty and social exclusion, as well as those who are running out of any kind of unemployment benefit, to develop and complete our protection system, in order to integrate into it those who are now excluded, by arbitrating, if necessary, the measures to meet their needs with the corresponding regulatory changes. It was also approved, and the Basque Government was also urged, taking into account the increase in this demand for social emergency aid, to amend Decree 4/2011, incorporating an article to ensure sufficient coverage to meet the economic needs of future social emergency aid in the short term and as a result of economic crisis situations such as the current one. Also, within six months, a study was presented in the House on real poverty resulting from job insecurity and wage insufficiency, bringing to light situations now hidden about poverty, so that direct measures can be taken as soon as possible to correct their situation. And also to establish a comprehensive policy to combat poverty in the family that responds to the different manifestations and sectoral consequences of poverty. And not to consider real estate, for the purpose of denying the benefit, to those properties other than the usual housing that are not housing and that have a value lower than the annual amount of GIR that would correspond in total absence of income. And this was approved in that full monograph held in November 2014. And in this direction we work the Basque Socialist Group, throughout the entire legislature. And I would like to recall what our proposals and initiatives have been. In October 2013, we were discussing in this House a PNL on social emergency aid, and a month later we were questioning the Aburto Councillor on the implementation of that non-legislative proposal. In November of that same year, the Socialist Group presented a GNP concerning a special plan against poverty and social exclusion, and we urged the Basque Government, within four months and in collaboration with the parliaments and municipalities, and depending on the competences of each institution, to have, develop and promote and implement a special plan against poverty and social exclusion for those municipalities and districts which, due to special circumstances, need short- and medium-term economic action and to take the necessary measures to promote the socio-occupational integration of people at risk or social exclusion. And the Government has failed and is failing to fulfil this mandate. In March 2014, we asked the Employment and Social Policy Adviser about the fulfilment of this mandate, specifically, regarding this special plan against poverty and social exclusion. In October 2014, we were again discussing a GNP on the coverage of social emergency aid, and a week later we asked the Councilman about the extension of this budget allocation to finance emergency aid. And in March 2015 the socialists presented a non-law proposal to bring the decree regulating emergency aid into line with the new realities that are being produced and that are leaving a few people out of the system. We urged the Basque Government, taking into account both its own reports and those of the various social organizations, which reveal new realities and unmet needs that lead to situations of poverty and social exclusion, to take the necessary steps to amend Decree 4/2011 throughout this year, so that people who do not have the liquidity to meet specific expenses that foresee or pale situations of social exclusion, as well as new situations of unmet poverty, can access emergency aid. And that the Government submit to the Committee on Employment and Social Policy and Housing the amendments to that decree, before its adoption. I have to say that this proposal was adopted unanimously. As you will see, Parliament's proposals are repeated over time and fall within the will of the Government to implement them. But it seems that this government listens deafly not only to the agreements of this Parliament, also to the requests of the Basque municipalities, their own reports and those of social organizations, which reveal new realities and unmet needs that lead to situations of poverty and social exclusion. Today we are again debating a non-legislative proposal on the financing of social emergency aid. And the Socialist Group once again reiterates itself in the mandates of this Parliament and calls on the Government not to listen deafly to the social demands of those who are going through the worst. To take into account the municipalities, to take into account their own reports and also the reports of social organizations. We are waiting for the Basque Government to amend the decree, as reflected in the parliamentary mandate of 5 March. In the meantime, we believe that we need to urge the Government to increase the budget allocation for social emergency aid as a matter of urgency, with a sufficient amount to be able to guarantee the satisfaction of the aid that the municipalities are receiving during this year 2015 and that meets the requirements of the law and in the order that regulates it. And to give top priority, of course, to the processing of such timely transfers and provision of resources. In short, we urge the Basque Government to comply with the agreements of this Parliament. And I end by saying that on 31 July the plenary session of the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz unanimously approved a motion which reflected precisely the agreements that we have in this Parliament and which we also take up today in the compromise amendment, which has already been reported by the previous Member of Parliament and which I certainly hope and wish also to have the same unanimous support that it has had in that City Council of Gasteiz, especially when the governor, the mayor of the City Council, is of the Basque Nationalist Party. For my part nothing more, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u48	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u49	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Again, yes, we are arguing about helping out for social troubles. In this law we have proposed 90 initiatives, and it is clear that several of the problems which are at the present time at the cost of the assistance of social distress and of tramigation have not been solved. Each spokesman sold his book, enumerates his initiative, but we'll sell the entire encyclopaedia. An Interpelation, a motion, a question to be answered by mouth on the committee, a question requested by the commission of the commission, a question to be answered by seven in the full council, a proposition equal to 11, 25 information request, and 30 in reply to the question all the time. And the same problems that happened in 2012 are still unsolved on October 10th, 2015. It's red. 81 initiatives since the start of the legislature. And it is no longer a matter of debate, it is a matter of the Government taking into account and complying with those that the opposition groups are repeatedly asking of it. Hence the first point in our compromise amendment that we have signed between EH Bildu and the Socialist Group. We were talking about unresolved problems, and there are several that are repeated year by year. For example, from the time that AES applications are submitted in basic social services, until the people, families who need them start receiving these amounts, months pass. Because from the time that the Basque Government publishes the order regulating these aids until it transfers the amounts corresponding to each municipality to start paying them, it takes several months. That's a problem, an example. But it's not the only one or the worst. The line of money that's used to fund social harassments isn't enough, it doesn't come. That's a serious question that repeats over and over. That's why the councils have to pay for the rest of their demand, they have to put it out of their own pocket for the amount of money that wasn't put on by the funk. In the meantime, EAJ informs us that the decree itself receives the opportunity of diminishing the councils. If it decreases, less coverage. Besides, every council will divide them according to its own discretion, here is another example, wherein we have another injustice. And what's the answer to that? There's no money. Or as far as the budget resources allow, the line will grow. Or it reminds us that the aids of social distress are not subjective rights. That won't solve anything. The usual refrain. The Basque Government cannot simply say that the money does not arrive. Or as the Basque Nationalist Party proposes to us in its amendment to the whole, that if they can increase the departure of the ESAs. We have repeated it to the point of satiety, it seems to us irresponsible action on the part of the Government, because money is there. The question is whether or not there is political will. There is no political will here to answer to families who are in critical condition. More and more people don't reach the limit of dignity. And we can talk for a long time about the new state of poverty, and those who are not supported by social agitations. But, as has been shown, we have often discussed and discussed this. Today, when we're back, we're asking you to pick up the effective and stable measures to solve this problem. Again, we place this half-correction, which we have signed by these various groups on the table. It's on this deal that EH Collect has always asked for. First thing we're asking is if we can finally get this Chamber to fill up the agreements we've agreed to for social troubles. Furthermore, as they were saying, we ask that this decree be amended, that amendment of the decree in which all the groups have agreed. But in the meantime, we urge you to take the steps that we have repeatedly repeated to you here. I will not repeat them, because we believe that they have already been sufficiently explained by the two previous speakers. We have to remind you that all the political groups represented in the City of Gasteiz, this is the third time we have said this, signed a very similar agreement to this one on 31 July this year. And Mr Urtaran seems to have already taken the appropriate steps to address his Government's lack of commitment. The mayor of Gasteiz, of the PNV, has assured that he will pay the AES from January next year and that he will respond with own resources to the requests that are made when the budget is finished, when they exhaust the item that the Basque Government assigns to him. Once again, the Basque Nationalist Party makes it clear that it agrees with what we have signed here today, as long as it is outside Parliament. The usual problems, the usual answers, the same slogans. Today, through this half-way, we're sending the usual request to you. We hope those who haven't signed vote for them vote for them, we ask them to vote for them. But apparently, and sadly, we'll get the usual answer from fun. If we keep this up, we'll break all the records with the initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Like every year, at the end of the year, we have an equally controversial proposition about finance, as the other speakers have said. And as well as every year, the attitudes and discourses of different groups are very similar. Ours too, of course. It's not that he's concerned about people passing the wrong way, that he has no idea, that he's got no political will and that he's standing still. We've told you many times and I'll repeat it to you today: To tell a lie a great many times, it will never be true. You know, it's like, "You know what I mean." Not just the fool, the people, all the people, the government's finest compass. We all know the economic problems of law, but it's difficult, it's just... it's been an honest, steady commitment to the welfare system of society. Even the bet on welfare of social troubles is indisputable. Year 2013, with 1.2 billion euros less to make the budgets of the previous year, the same amount for the AES 17.3 million euros remained. Budget year 2014, EUR 20.5 million for AES. Year 2015, 22 million euros in budgets for social emergency aid. The Government's bet on people, on those who are going through the worst, is clear and the data support it. As the proposed team said it was the initiative, and he explained it here today, the financial friends in the emergency have a subconscious character, because that's how we decided it when the law was accepted in 2008. On the other hand, rents and additional housing preparations have a subjective character. A great difference, as you all know. It deserves a special quotation to assist the decree for the 4/2011 social anguish of January 18th, exactly 11.2 articles. And I'll read it. It's not a choice, it's imperative, Mrs. Blanco. "The amount which can be applied to each particular case must be reduced by the hands of the townman, according to the resources of the budget. And the maximum amount which can be given for each concept by the previous order must be reduced to the demand of all petitioners in the same manner in the case of a negative percentage which is thought sufficient for the council." This article is very important, as we have also mentioned in some other debate that we have had on this subject, for three points that I will mention telegraphically. One, date of adoption of the decree, January 18, 2011, Socialist Government with the invaluable help of the People's Party. Two, it is imperative; the amount applicable in each particular case must be reduced by the competent council, taking into account the existing budgetary appropriations. And three, because it is a mere act of justice, must be fair to the people who can find themselves in an emergency situation both in January and in December. The municipalities therefore have this obligation to cut back in order to be able to cope with all the aid submitted to them. And the decree says so, it's imperative. Ez da aukera. Let us therefore highlight the current legislation as a whole, because this last article of the ESA regulatory decree is also part of the regulation of social emergency aid. The commitment of Euzko Abertzaleak and the Basque Government to the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act is firm. The Basque system of social protection guarantees the dignity of the people who are going through the worst, those who are at risk of exclusion, as we have said on many occasions. And thanks to the solidarity of Basque society, these people can stay out of the margins of marginalization and poverty. Maintaining the social protection system is a priority for the Basque Government, which is dedicated to ensuring that this support reaches the families who need it. Despite the economic difficulties and clashes of those who do not believe in solidarity with people in difficulty, the Basque Government is making a very important effort to maintain the coverage regulated by the law. For this reason, we find unfair the demonstrations carried out by the spokespersons of other groups trying to present a Government that is carefree of the basic needs of the citizens and accuses them of a lack of political will. Especially because they know it's not true. This Government is concerned about all people, regardless of their origin; I insist, for all people. They can't say the same thing to all the speakers. For all that has been said, and that, as we have said here every year, we should say, as we have said in this law, about the fundamental initiative and corrections which have been introduced, since afterwards nearly the same in the middle, on the one hand, as regards the two previous points of the same proposition as the Pope Party, we did not intend to protect them, as I have pointed out. The Euskojok will do a great deal of work and continue to do what the law says, but the same regulations as the law says are made, 4/2011 Decree, which imposes duties on the councils, and which in all cases do not fulfil the established regulation. And I repeat, according to the decree, the city-guard will have to be cut down according to the budget resources they have. It surprises the position of the Socialist Party by accepting the points of the original initiative, because, Mrs Sarasua, I do not think you need to remind you that the budgets were approved with the votes of the Socialist Party. Therefore, in our view, his attitude is at least incongruous. With regard to the third point of the People's Party initiative, as we have been repeating in the end-of-year debates of this Parliament relating to ESAs, we will have time, Mrs Garrido, to talk about the 2016 budgets when the preliminary draft is presented in Parliament. With regard to the Socialist Party's amendment to add, to say that we are already dealing with this issue in March, as you have already explained, and the need to bring the regulation of the social emergency aid decree into line with the new realities and the Government's commitment to bring to the social policy committee the assessment and study of the new situations, as well as the changes that this would entail, all within a period of not less than nine months. That deadline has not yet expired, and that compromise amendment was adopted with the votes of this group as well. Therefore, we were not going to support this addition amendment either because the Government is already working on the adequacy of the decree regulating ESAs, having undertaken to submit to Parliament the adjustments to be made in advance of its final adoption before the relevant committee. Let the government work, let us wait for the deadline set by Parliament itself to carry out this work, before again demanding it in the same direction. As to the corrections of the agreement, we must say that we liked the first point much more than the medium does, and that we were prepared to vote "yes." Other points have been answered by the Popular and Socialists. And the middle-way, though here the representative of the Popula Party has said that they have come to a medium, we have not seen their signature on it, though we suppose they will vote for it. But we will not protect him from what we have described.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. It's the team's turn that's got no corrections. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u53	Thank you, President. With your permission, from the seat. Very briefly, to say that we were in agreement with the original initiative, we were in agreement with the amendments that have been tabled by the groups that have finally signed this compromise. And we also agree with the compromise that has been signed. This issue has been discussed on countless occasions in this Parliament, and I am not going to repeat UPyD's arguments. There has been talk of political will, whether the Basque Government has political will or not. I believe that what has been shown in recent times is that the Basque Government has not had the political will to fulfil these parliamentary mandates. He has always suggested that he did not have enough money to carry out those parliamentary mandates. We do think it is a matter of political will and therefore call on the government to comply with this compromise, but also, something that could even be more important, we call on all groups in this Parliament not to approve the 2016 budgets in the event that the Basque Government fails to comply with what this Parliament is demanding in relation to social emergency aid. That would be done, not words. It is good to sign compromise amendments, but the different groups have a responsibility to approve or not certain budgets and the budgets of the Basque Government. I therefore call on the political groups in this House to reject the draft budgets, in the event that they do not include the necessary items in social emergency aid to cover all the demands of Basque society. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u54	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing the answers, Mrs Garrido, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Yes, like every year, Mrs. Argree, we're discussing this subject because the Euskal MUDA doesn't fulfill its duty, and, on the other hand, the agreements signed in this Chamber, or the agreements we get. Why? As always, I think the answer is clear. There's another thing, too, what we've seen in this debate. On the one hand, the position you've kept in this law isn't the position you've kept in due course. And another thing we see clearly is that you are here today to slap Mr Urtaran a little bit, when the Mayor of Vitoria-Gasteiz seems to have made a great deal of effort to reach a unanimous agreement on the financing of social emergency aid, urging the Basque Government to finance such aid, and you here do not sign that agreement. The Basque Government is not covering the entire demand for social emergency aid. Applications are being shot and not being covered. The new law that we adopted in 2008 established that the budgets of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country had to sufficiently cover all demands for social emergency aid, and also established a novelty, which was that there was no budget limit for it. That is the obligation of the Government, the Government has to comply with the law, not my statements, are the statements of Mrs Eider Mendoza, currently president of the Gipuzkoa General Councils and in the previous parliamentary spokeswoman on these social issues until she left the seat in Parliament. Therefore, Mrs Arregi, this is the speech you had, this legislature is obviously not making this speech. Therefore, no credibility when you come to bring us here the famous slogan of this Government in relation to that we are the Government of the people. Well, look, the people's government, no. You will be the government of the word, but the government of the people cannot be when then you, when you come concrete initiatives that have to do with the lives of the people, with improving the quality of life of the people, with solving the problems of the people, in order to finance and deal with a competition that you have entrusted and that you, moreover, when you processed this law in Parliament, had a lot of interest in including that forecast to which you referred earlier. Therefore, less talk, more facts and what is clear to us today, as has been said here on many occasions, is the lack of will again of this Government to assume its responsibilities in relation to people. Anyway, the budgets will come. Seeing that this aid is insufficient, we will again put forward as a parliamentary group an amendment to increase that heading and we will see if you have just fallen off the rails. And above all, I say, it seems very inconsistent to me that you are holding this legislature with the statements you made in the previous legislature, and especially when your mayors are asking you to put more money. It seems, therefore, that even its mayors do not listen to them anymore; not to the Basque citizens, but not even to the recent mayor of Vitoria-Gasteiz, Mr Urtaran, it seems that you pay much attention to him, at least on this issue, despite having a unanimous mandate from the City Council of Vitoria-Gasteiz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u56	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists represent the group, Lady Sarasa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u57	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Arregi, I go out for what you said, and I think we have to argue things before we disqualify. It is true that there are many debates on the financing of social emergency aid, but it is not only important that the item in the budgets be included, we have to take into account what the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act itself literally says in its article 91: "The general budgets of the Basque Autonomous Community may be allocated annually sufficient economic resources for the financing of the amounts of the economic benefits regulated by this Act and for the implementation of the set of powers assigned to the Basque Government". The Basque Government must therefore guarantee the financing of social emergency aid in a short time, even more rightly in a situation such as the present one, and it cannot be taken as an excuse for lack of credit. Furthermore, I must say that the budgets are obviously approved with the Socialist Parliamentary Group, of course, because we are responsible and responsible, and we must acknowledge and thank the work that we are also doing in order to be able, at this time of difficulties, to put in place policies that resolve citizens' problems. But I also have to say that you know that this game is expandable. Because how can we predict at the beginning of the year what will be the demand for social emergency aid at the end? It is precisely this data that the Government needs to know. That is why quarterly reports are presented from the municipalities, and we have to come here to argue. And then you say that as much as a lie is repeated, it will never become a truth. And you know what I'm saying? That I believe in attitudes, more than words. Because here we can say, but we have to do it. And you've given the data from the nationalist government. If you want, I remind you of what the socialist government did and it's in the hemerotheque. And I can tell you, I also have it here, that in 2009 the allocation for emergency aid and supplementary housing provision was 34.5 million, and that the Socialist Government did proceed to extend the allocation for social emergency aid for two consecutive years, at the initiative of the initiatives that you put forward in this Parliament and that before you said just what you do not want to say now. And I believe that that must be acknowledged, that is also reflected in the sittings of this Parliament. And as for the decree, what I have explained is that that amendment to the decree 2011 is there, but there are also constant breaches of the Government. And we're talking about social emergency aid. And look, I brought, because it seems interesting to me, the government program, what it says, because it is the Basque government program, to which you are subject, that says: "People are our axis of action, which gives meaning to our government." Well, let them prove it day by day. "They will pay special attention to the most vulnerable groups without allowing anyone to stay behind." What does that mean? "And the commitment of the Basque government's lehendakari is with people." That's the motto. And I'm not going to repeat Eider Mendoza's words, because Mrs. Garrido has already said them, but you then when we were ruling, you said one thing and now you say another. And so, Mrs Arregi, whether you want to put your arguments here or not, you will have to portray your group in a vote, which is, by the way, a proposal that you made and that the mayor of Vitoria is also doing. When you talk about incoherence, I think you also have to look a little in your own flesh and in your own home, because if the mayor of Vitoria, I understand that it is an important capital, is asking what he is asking, imagine the rest of the mayors what they are doing, which are by the way plural, wonderful and complementing to a great deal, in order to be able to bring forward many families and many people, who are really interested and who should be interested in all groups. For my part, nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u58	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u59	Eskerrik asko berriro. Mrs Arregi reminded us that the Basque Government in principle had a budget of EUR 17 million for the ESAs and today one of 22. Five million more euros, and he was telling us about the Basque Government's effort, in this case, to put this item on record. Five million more have put in the Basque Government. The city halls, another spokesman has said, eight million. To talk about effort on the part of the Basque Government, when we see what the municipalities are doing, it does not seem entirely right to us. And he's been talking about minoring again. Yes, it's collected in the order, you're right, the municipalities are forced to minimize. One thing I'll tell you, if the money came to them, they wouldn't have to go down. Another thing I have to say to you, you're undermining your judgment, no one's telling you how you're undermining, you're undermining your judgment. And one of the arguments you have made, and I share it, says that it is not fair for people or cohabitation units applying for social emergency aid in December not to receive them, and the January ones do. A municipality ruled by the Basque Nationalist Party, the criterion it used to minimize, do you know what it was? Put the number, like in the butcher's shop. And when the numbers were running out, if they were running out in March, there was no more money. Therefore, those who presented in April, May, June until December did not receive AES. Do you think that criterion for undermining is right? It just doesn't pick up. So, it's another responsibility that lies with the municipalities. Anyway, all of this to us and to us doesn't have to explain it to us. Explain this to other mayors and to Mr. Urtaran, who doesn't seem to know he has to minimize. They talk about will, that we accuse them over and over again that they have no political will. Of course they have no political will! If there's money! But if in the budgets, when we put the amendments, we tell them how much money and where to get it. And they vote against it! They've got the money, where to get it. And they vote against it. What's that? Political will. It is clear to us that there is a lack of political will. Yes, over and over again, we repeat ourselves, rascal, the same rascal, some groups, other groups, the Government says the same thing, the opposition says the same thing, 81 initiatives. Until the Basque Government takes the necessary steps to change this situation, we will remain the same. So, let's see if once and for all he takes into account what is approved here today. Besterik ez, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u61	Thank you again, Mr. congressman. Mrs Garrido, you've been saying that RedMork doesn't fulfill his duties over and over again. And many councils do not, I tell you, obey what the decree says. And perhaps if Mr. Maroto when he was mayor had better managed the ESAs, neither would the City Council of Gasteiz be in the situation in which he is at the moment. He was telling us about the credibility of this Government, which questioned the credibility of the Government. Well, look, Mrs Garrido, be calm, because the credibility of the government and the group that supports it is given by the citizens with their votes. So I don't see you too legitimate to talk about credibility. You said that it was adopted unanimously before and not now. That's not true. And so much that you've been talking about Mr. Urtaran, I understand that I can rock you, that I'm worried, because today it's the mayor of Gasteiz and that he's signed and that he's supported that motion. Mr. Urtaran has been consistent and has signed it when he was in the opposition and when he is ruling the City Hall of Gasteiz. But, Mrs Sarasua, the members of the Socialist Party cannot say the same. Because when Ms Gemma Zabaleta was in charge of the Social Policy Department of the Basque Government, the councillors of the Socialist Party did not support the request for an increase in AES. Therefore, speaking of congruences, coherences, etc., apply the story. And Mrs. Garrido, don't worry, Mr. Urtaran has signed that motion, but I don't think anyone from the Basque Nationalist Party is coming to amend the plan. Mrs Sarasua, I do not believe that you in my first speech have disqualified you, nor in this one. You said you disqualified him, and I started reading different articles. What I have come to say is that the law must be looked at in its entirety, and the regulatory decree of the ESAs is also part of the regulatory regulation. And it is clear, and demands this imperative, that the quantities must be reduced in order to be able to meet all applications for aid. Mrs. Blanco was talking about how these decreases were being made, and so on. We have shown ourselves to be this group, on many occasions and whenever we have debated, and the Government too, ready to improve and sit down and talk about what needs to be improved. But I insist, the ESAs are not subjective law, because this is what was agreed in this Parliament, and they are of a subsidising nature. And we are willing to sit down, but always out of all partisan interest and out of electoral periods, because I believe that they do not do any favors to what really and basically all of us should look for, which is the best protection for the people who are worst going through it. To remind them that despite the fact that it seems that the ESAs are insufficient and that Mrs Blanco was talking about 5 million that the Government was putting in, and 8 that Mrs Sarasua had said that the municipalities were putting in, these amounts are to be added to the sum that the Government also contributes to the GIR and to the CVP, that these are subjective rights, and to the extent that they are ending, it is mandatory by law to implement these amounts. Let us therefore speak with rigour and seriousness, because obviously the social protection effort of this Government is very important and will continue to be so. Besterik ez, mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. When the discussion is over, the original text of the proposition of Euscala, like the Potula group, will be made to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; 10; counters, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u63	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we vote for the middle-term correction signed by the Basque Socialists and the EH Collect. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 46; contraries, 26; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u64	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "As a team-Mista-UPyD-like suggestion about the e-mail and advertising policy of the Eusko-Mingoi. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Misstto-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, is your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u65	Thank you, President. The Basque Government forwarded to Parliament the 2014 memoir on distribution and spending on institutional advertising, reflecting once again an undeniable treatment of favour to the News Group over the rest of the media. As was the case the previous year, the preferential treatment towards the News Group is unquestionable and newspapers and radio belonging to it receive, in proportion to their sales and audience figures, much more money than the other media operating in Euskadi. The lehendakari, in July 2014, appearing before the Permanent Chamber, pledged to correct that favoring treatment already shown during the 2013 financial year. At that appearance he acknowledged that he was not satisfied with how the distribution of advertising had occurred during 2013, an extreme denounced by all opposition groups after the gross attempt to be distorted in the previous plenary by his spokesman and adviser for Public Administration and Justice. The Lehendakari, after being caught, acknowledged that there had been errors and that there were aspects that needed to be improved both in terms of forms, denounced even judicially by UPyD, and in terms of amounts, politically denounced by all groups in this Parliament except by the Basque Nationalist group. A few months later, in October, this Parliament adopted by a large majority a non-legislative proposal, which censored the use of public funds to favour certain Government-affiliated communication groups, and urged it to limit advertising to the maximum and that campaigns conform to certain principles, including non-discrimination. However, when the report for 2014 is received, it is confirmed that the figures are still very favourable for the communication group closest to Basque nationalism and the current Basque Government. In a parliamentary response, the lehendakari is shielded in the Advertising Commission and goes so far as to say that objective criteria are applied, which, however, it does not explain. And he goes on to say that the Government makes its communication according to the criteria of professionalism, fairness and transparency, concepts more than questionable, and forgetting other fundamental criteria, such as non-discrimination or the proportionality between investment and dissemination, that is, the profitability of what the Basque Government spends on advertising. The truth is that the issue of institutional advertising, in principle supposedly a minor issue in the vast catalogue of issues covering the management of a government, especially if it is done well, has, however, become a star theme in this legislature. And it has been because of the illegal and tortuous use that this Government has made of it, and because of the blatant use of public money in favour of its friends, in favour of those means which do not criticize or censor what the Basque Government is doing. It should be recalled, by the way, that UPyD's complaint against the Basque Government for illegally hiring simulated advertising is still ongoing. And that's where we're talking about extraordinarily serious crimes. That complaint goes on, slow but secure, the general justice is usually slow, but in any case we hope that we will have the sentence sooner than later. We have discussed this issue several times already, even a permanent parliament had to be convened in July last year in order for the lehendakari to appear. In that session, let us remember that Mr Urkullu acknowledged that things had been done wrong and committed himself to straightening the way. In October of last year, a year ago, the issue returned to this plenary room and a pronouncement of all opposition groups was re-declared in favour of the News group, the closest ideologically and entrepreneurially to the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party. I remind you of the fifth point of that agreement: "The Basque Parliament censors the use of public funds to favour certain related media, which represents illegal financing of them and promotes unfair competition in the sector". But we're back to the same story this year. Despite the blows to the chest of the lehendakari and the promise to correct the course, when the data concerning the advertising of the year 2014 arrive, we find again the same situation: brazen favoritism towards the friendly group. Last year the unjust situation that the Basque Government has illegally financed the communication group that favors the thesis of its political party was repeated. And to prove this, we have to use the figures once again: the Vocento Group received slightly more than €960,000 in advertising, and the Nouvelles Group 309,000, i.e. triple. But it is that the first multiply by 4.7 the audience according to the CIES, and it shoots up to 7.8 according to the OJD regarding the second. Nor can it be said that this situation is also repeated with respect to the other media, and for example, the News Group has a much larger distribution than other written media and other newspapers. It must be recognized that in written media something has been improved compared to the previous year, but on the radio it continues to make its cape a skirt and blatantly favoring Onda Vasca. This station is the last in terms of broadcasting Basque conventional radio stations, reducing even its audience over the previous year. According to CIES data, it has 55,000 listeners, it exceeds the SER, 40 Principals, with 350,000, the group EITB, Wave Zero, Europe FM, Group Nervion and National Radio. But here is the miracle of objectivity and equity. In a reply from the Lehendakari to Mr Pastor of the Socialist Group, the Lehendakari says in text, referring to the distribution of advertising, that the Government uses objective criteria. He adds that the Government makes its communication according to the criteria of professionalism, fairness and transparency. Because we'll have to consider it a miracle that the least listeners have more money than the third or fourth or fifth in audience volume. It must be a miracle because, of course, it is neither objective nor equitable. And this is what we want to denounce. We respect, of course, all the media to the public and to the private, but what cannot be allowed is that the Government favours certain media, which are those that have the most affinity with the Government and the Basque Nationalist Party. Nor does it seem very fair that the income of Onda Basque is half that of the SER, when it is multiplied by 6.3 the listeners. Nor that it obtains just under half of the money that the EITB group stations have having 7.5 times less listeners. This shameful treatment of favor is done by all departments of the Basque Government, although some more blatantly. Some are particularly in favour of favour of the News Group, such as the Department of Employment, which gives more publicity to the News Group than to the Vocento Group, while Security, Environment and Public Administrations gives it almost the same, despite its large differences in copies sold. By the way, the figures for the first quarter of 2015 seem to consolidate the tendency to favor Onda Vasca, as it receives the triple that Onda Zero, although it doubles it in listeners, and the Nervión group receives only 10% of what the Basque Government has spent on advertising in Onda Vasca, although it also surpasses it in listeners. It is that they are insulting proportions, certainly, for a lehendakari to say in writing without blushing, in a parliamentary response, that the policy of the Basque Government is done with equity. It's a real scandal. And it draws attention to the impunity with which this government and the Basque Nationalist Party operate. As much as this attitude has been censored in recent times, in recent months, in the past year, the fact is that the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party think that nothing affects them, is above good and evil and can therefore continue to do the same with absolute impunity. Their own documents, because the data we have given here are extracted from their memory, are deflating them, are demonstrating their blatant favoritism towards a communication group that they are financing without blinking. And they don't care, as I said, that this Parliament has already censored this behaviour to them several times. You continue to do so, in the media you continue to fund your friends, whom you do not criticize. And that's a form of political corruption. You, who are so close to talking about clean hands, ethical commissions and big words to criticize others, are making an illegitimate use of public money. They are using the money of Basque society to finance certain related means. And this is a shame. And this has a name, this is corruption, it is called what it is called; in our opinion this is corruption, because they are allocating resources from the public sector to promote the results account of private media, media like the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government. This is a bad democratic practice, which is a sister relative of corruption. Hence our initiative. We propose that this Parliament censor the use of public funds to favour certain media and communication groups related to the Basque Government. And we propose to urge the Basque Government to limit to the maximum the hiring of advertising spaces in the media that do not fall within the framework of campaigns of general interest and that, in any case, they must comply with the principles of transparency, competition, equality, non-discrimination and proportionality to the penetration of the media into Basque society. This is our proposal. There is a two-point amendment by EH Bildu. The first of them we share, comes to say basically what UPyD tells them in their original initiative. With regard to the second point, it is a good idea to urge the Basque Government to bring an instruction that sets out the criteria for the distribution of advertising and the system for assessing its application, but we do not share the second part of the second point of EH Bildu, when it says that these criteria should take into account the social dissemination of the media, but also the level of Basque they use. We don't agree, we don't share. And we ask the rest of the groups, all the groups voting in favour of the original initiative, which I believe is clearer and goes to what matters in this matter: to censure the Basque Government for the fraudulent use in my opinion of public money to benefit certain media. If you go ahead, if you approve, you have to think of new steps, you have to be vigilant, you have to remain vigilant. We cannot accept that this Parliament should approve certain parliamentary mandates and that the Basque Government should not all comply with them. I hope, in any case, that at least this UPyD initiative will be approved today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u66	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Betaliangoti, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u67	Good noon, everyone. Thank you, Mrs. President. We're here to repeat a discussion about a year's date, from the misbehaved behavior of which you started, when what you've done has come out of the usurper's attitude, and to end up in order to correct the communications and publicity policies that he does. We all think that's the way. We can come to this plenos again as often as we please, in order to favour certain means, and to accuse how the intermediate division is made. And of course we're not going to deny it because today we can agree with it and agree. But it seems to us, that the right use of public specie is the occasion of making a step. We were going to make an advance of what it should be, and we did it the last time we brought this subject in November, then the Retestation of the Chief of Erkoreeks. We know that the violation of law and the twist of regulations has not ceased, that some things have been concealed, but do not destroy them. And it doesn't seem like a witness to the behavior shown in the court of accusations, a pleasure of which I'd like to leave that road behind, that's what's made the proposal. So we believe that, knowing this, the criteria for the distribution of publicity should be clearly established at the time, and the systems evaluated with them. And then it's over with the plugs, even though the law has finally decided. That's what we wanted to propose in our corrections because, as we said, we think we need to take another step. And we'll say more, that it doesn't just make fun of you, but we should consider the change in the world of communication. There was a time when advertising was mainly restricted to newspaper, radio and television, which were the main means of communicating. On the other hand, there are days when there are few contacts, young people, and other means of reaching them must be by default when the object of publicity is in the young one, as I have said. Not just that. It is possible that people who have access to both may be the recipient of the message, but it is not the cost of publicity at all. We should, therefore, also consider the efficacy of each of them, in order to supply the message. But this is not the sense of the publicity of Christmas, nor of another third, which we think ought to consider at the time of setting up the criteria, considering the importance of communication, the importance of the many and different means of opening and interpreting information. The countries under a few means of monopoly are poorer societies. The publicity also has something else to do, and the defense of this plurality is this. We need criteria and communication policies that will take care of all this. It's not enough for some to do what they say about CIES or other measurements. It would be a starting point, we agree, my dear reader, that the audience will not be less numerous than the others. But even if we agree in that, we think it's not enough, we can't start there and end it. All that has been said must be taken notice of, and, because we live in the country where we live, we need also to take measures to encourage the eucalyptic means, or to assist those who encourage common society, and to repel those who attack. If we have the protection of the law of equality, it regulates that the media cannot extend the sexist. The media are important socialization tools, and many of them, unfortunately, always strengthen stereotypes, roles, and maxists. Must we then allow the reader to receive by means of the greatest number of spectators, without any further consideration of public money? We don't think so. And we might miss the criteria we said we could find in memory of the advertising distribution of 2014 or plan of 2015. But that which is obvious to us alone is meant to be revealed, i.e. the will which is to make up for a certain reason, we see it also, but we think it is not the only problem. And we shall say that in the average year, and taking the means into groups, it does not break what the measurements say, and we know it is not true. But worse still, the rest won't be taken care of, and we don't think it's secondary. And I'd like to remind Mr. Maniro that we didn't set two criteria. He mentions that it does not give him the importance I give him, but I believe that equals and diversity are of no consequence. And therefore, being removed from great numbers, we have sought to consider what we should think of the examples we should give, when we examine the memory of 2014, which we have mentioned, without contradiction the data which has been given here, may be considered. But we think we should look at other people too. And we believe that this examination may leave a wide series of questions to be answered among us, and that we should at least do that healthy exercise in answering them. For instance, it was a campaign about jobs the younger ones were particularly busy last year. He had a $400,000 budget. It's hardly ever been used for that amount of 15,000 for social or similar networks, and the rest has gone on forever, including radio, newspaper, television or magazines. Is that right? Is that what it's about to get to the kids to do an effective advertising campaign? One more example. Medius knows that to attract his readers, they ought to inform them of the principal events which are given in society, and even if they bring in special means or expense. With that, I ask: Is it allowed to protect that show by protecting it, in a way that's just fun and sometimes not? Or, more clearly, just a special attempt on Fitur is Onda Vasca? If there was another division in advertising, even those who didn't do that would do it if they got money in return? It's an example that organizes an interview, whether in terms of exact contents, in order to acquire publicity, that is, to get funded. Are you sure you're gonna have to decide without any measuring criteria what kind of support to protect and what not to try? In the initiation of the medics, is the decision to be left in their contacts options? We know what this is about: that there are few who receive the money from these protectors. One more question. Is it acceptable that the official advertisement attached to an offer of work should be written only by two groups of communications, although it has not been read by the provinces, while those who have been read on the margin, or the only newspaper of the Basques? Or to make them alone in the great writings by the calling of EGASE, when many are present, and many when they are young? Or must we allow the means to be an end and not a receiver? Or are the criteria between departments here said to be the same, but in some cases they are also different? I would answer to all these questions, no doubt. And we think that's the right thing to do. Looking at advertising Plan 2015, the whole intention of repeating the same mistakes as before is apparent. Such instances, moreover, are expressly quoted and repeated in the designs of the past year and this year. It is not doubted what has been done before, and it is also sufficient to fill up the least of what is said of the Law of Publicity and Communications. It's where you're told to promote the freedom and equality of the people, and to appeal to everyone's share in social life. It doesn't seem like we could say that's what we're doing with the facts we're dealing with. Therefore, and in order to finish it, it is not enough for us as a criterion of extension. It's okay with being one of the criteria, but it's not the only one. That doesn't work either. It is, therefore, a convenient time not only to accuse, but to set up the criteria and means of measuring them. Otherwise, it will be possible to come from time to time to say that the publicity is being distributed for him or for him, and that the Government of the moment is financed in an irregular manner. And it will be true, but the accusation or discussion here will have no other effect than that of correcting the situation. Therefore our correction has two points: On the other hand, the accusation of the wrong that is being committed and the proposal to change the future. The original proposition makes the first, and considers it as the only criterion. And we think it's not enough and that's why we don't protect him and that's why we made the full correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. Passing over the uncorrected teams, Mr. Sémper, representative of the Popula team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly, because when we had the opportunity to get to know the initiative presented by the UPyD group, the first thing I thought about was how we approached this, because we have discussed it on several occasions, unfortunately. Because it is an issue that in the end does not admit too much confrontation and too much debate, because it seems logical that what is right is right, and what does not conform to the norm, must be censored. And because in the end we are talking about something that, on the one hand, obviously depends on compliance with the law, on the rule, which obliges governments, public administrations to allocate public money, the money of everyone, in a concrete way, which, in addition to many other things, is with fairness and transparency. But it also depends on the wills and how one understands the exercise of power. How one understands the exercise of power when from institutions he has to make decisions related to public money, where he or she goes and how he or she goes. But the objective reality, I think we will all agree on that, some will suffer more and others will be happy, is that this government, the government of the Basque Nationalist Party, is a government that is under suspicion as to the good and correct use of public money in advertising. It was the lehendakari himself who also acknowledged that mistakes had been made and that it had to be rectified, the lehendakari himself in parliamentary office. There have also been pronouncements by this House in that regard, pronouncements of what we have censored, the majority of this House has censored the behaviour of the Basque Government in this matter, because it is not in vain, it is worth remembering – some have already done so – that publicity was paid by masking it as informational content. This practice was not just subscribed to a department of the Basque Government, but it was, we could say, almost cross-cutting, as an accepted norm. The Euskadi Communication and Institutional Advertising Act was violated and there are substantial suspicions of treatment in favour of certain communication groups to the detriment of others. And before I mentioned expressly that on the one hand there is law enforcement and on the other hand there is the attitude one has when it comes to a government and the fate of public money. Because it is important, it would be important, more than important it would be necessary, fundamental that each and every one of those who have among their responsibilities the administration of public money on an executive basis should have internalized that public money is sacred, if you can say it this way, and that it cannot be used interestfully to favor neither a political option nor a government. Governments have the right, including the obligation, to advertise, to communicate those things that they do and defend. To what they are not entitled, because this is established by law and because ethically it is reprehensible, is to use the money or give it a partisan use interested. And public money, therefore, is neutral because it must not respond to any interest, flag or color. It is neutral because it must respond to the general interests of a society, in this case of Basque society. And not content with being under suspicion, not content with being wrong, doing it wrong or doing it intentionally, not content with it, it seems that the Basque Government does not rectify, it seems that the Basque Government is still in its 13th place and it seems that it forces us to make a new pronouncement that censures that attitude of the Basque Government, which, among other things, has lost, if it has ever had, the north that public money is sacred and neutral. We will, therefore, approve UPyD's non-legislative proposal and hope that it will have the concurrence and agreement of the rest of the Chamber's formations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u70	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Pastor, yours is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u71	Thank you, President. I too will try to be brief, because this is not the first time that this issue has returned to plenary, although it is clear that given the null presence of members of the Government, the lehendakari himself, this issue should be of concern to them, which I think is quite serious. And we are talking about the management that this government of institutional advertising, to which so much attention devotes, and its obvious bias in favour of a communication group linked to the party that supports it. On this occasion we are not talking about the scandalous issue of advertising insertions, presented as if they were information, or if one wants, in reverse, of the case of the paid information of the News Group, but obviously they have connection with it. Then the government, through its spokesperson, tried to run over the reason by denying the undeniable and presenting that unacceptable conduct as a "sponsorship action," he said, and it had to be the lehendakari himself who saved him from a reprobation by this Parliament, recognizing that bad practice and saying that he did not like it either and that it was going to be corrected. This, in the light of the data we know, seems not only not to have done it, but to have failed to fulfil the commitment it has made in this Parliament. However, despite the express mandate of the majority of this House, there has continued to be a discouragement in the award of advertising, which we pay on a cleavage basis, among all, in favour of a communication group related to the Government. And this is not an objective assessment. You will excuse me for repeating some of the data that Mr Maneiro has given, but it is that it is concrete data, data that this Member has obtained after many times urging Lehendakaritza not only to give us the global figure, but to give it to us, broken down, by information companies and by departments. The breakdown shows a tremendously striking imbalance between what the News Group media receives and the rest, according to their respective audiences. In the written press chapter, the News Group – Deia, Diario, News by Gipuzkoa, News by Álava – entered for this concept 309,655 euros for advertising campaigns, advertisements and sponsorships. This amount accounts for one third of the income of the Vocento – El Correo and Diario Vasco – newspapers, which received 936,343. But it turns out that these last newspapers sell in kiosks 7.8 times more according to the latest official information and control data of publications to which it is true that the Journal of News of Álava is not hosted. But according to the general media survey, in which the three daily newspapers of the News Group are, these last two daily newspapers of the Vocento Group, sell 4.4 times more than the daily newspapers of the News Group, taking that official data. And that disproportion is even greater if you compare those 309,655 euros entered by the News Group with other newspapers, such as Gara, which does not reach 100,000, or Berria with 91,703 euros. This same pattern, but also corrected and increased, is repeated in the case of radio stations. The stations of the Nouvelles Group – Onda Vasca – enter the government for advertising in the year 2014 192,595 euros, which is slightly less than half of what is allocated to the stations of the SER or the 40 Principals, when this chain multiplied in Euskadi by six the audience of Onda Vasca, according to the data of the CIES. And compared to the number billed by EITB radio stations, Onda Vasca enters 2.3 times less when these radios multiply the audience of Onda Vasca by more than seven times. On the other hand, this same station receives from the Basque Government for advertising three times more than Onda Zero, when this channel has in Euskadi an audience superior to the Basque Wave according to the CIES. And this same pattern is repeated with small variations in the section of the digital newspapers, although here the amount of advertising billed is noticeably lower. And if we review the spending on concierge services – and it's not data from this parliamentarian or this group, it's data provided by Lehendakaritza – we find that the Department of Employment assigns to the News Group an amount very close to that of the Vocento Group, 69,700 compared to 76,800, when the circulation of the newspapers of this group multiplied by at least four times that of the News Group's newspapers. In the case of Lehendakaritza itself, its billing is 144,459 euros for the Vocento Group compared to 82,000 euros for the News Group. Exactly the same situation. And the data do not deceive, they are data and figures provided by the Government itself. This group is not convinced that the Government repeats to us again and again, when asked, that the distribution of institutional advertising is done according to criteria of professionalism, fairness and transparency. I do not doubt the professionalism of those who decide it, I will not question it, but it seems to me that transparency and objectivity and, above all, fairness shine through their absence. And when one preaches transparency, the transparency portals of this government, that must not only be said, it must be true, and in this case it is certainly wrong. We accept that it is not easy to achieve exact proportionality in media subsidies with institutional advertising. But so much disproportion and always in favor of the same communication group sings a lot already, too exaggerated to not suspect what is actually a favored treatment interested. And a favoritism particularly denouncing for being carried out with public money and affecting the rights of other means, which in this case are damaged. And there are no fallacious arguments here, because we are not talking about public aid to the media in which proportionality could be modulated and for various reasons favouring some companies over others, picking up a little the argument that Mrs Beitialarrangoiti said. The purpose of institutional advertising is not to finance the media, but to guarantee, as guaranteed by the Basque law which regulates it, the right of citizens to information that may be of interest to them and to promote their participation in public life through it. Therefore, if this information is to be passed on to the citizenry, the advertising expenditure of the Government must be made, here, in direct proportion to the number of readers, listeners or viewers with whom each of the media has no other criteria. Another thing is that public aid to the media is different, where other aspects need to be considered. And we here have no choice but to ask the government to correct its advertising policy, to keep the lehendakari to its word and when it says that it does not like what has been done, that it does not continue to do so, as has happened. And we support the general demand that it bring to this House clear and objective criteria for the procurement of institutional advertising, ensuring the free competition of all media on an equal footing and fairness in the distribution of resources according to the criterion to be applied according to Basque law itself, which is the dissemination that each of them has.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u72	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u73	Good morning again. I believe that the political party, which has encouraged the judgment, has placed it in its first words. He says there's a ship in the courts, that goes on its way, justice will be done, but the thesis must be nourished while it's done. So what happens to someone who's acting like that? Well, if he doesn't compare it with today's data trying to feed the thesis, maybe he doesn't know it. And here it is that the government, or the head of the government, or the president's word or activity has been put into question. I think President 2014. that, in July, he had fulfilled the five engagements which had been made before the Chamber, and that he had acknowledged that he was correct; he engaged with transparency, and, on the other hand, was engaged to renew the internal procedures, to improve the internal procedures, control, even the commitment to ethics, to commitment to commitments and institutions, and to complete the five of them. As for transparency, the information comes to this Chamber every four months. This didn't happen before, this is a nobed, but every four months of information comes with all the details. And if you've checked or examined the report, above 300 pages, that's exactly what's been published and what criteria have been used. As to criteria, the second engagement is said to be: It's done from the hands of a board between departments and it'll be done. It's said, what criteria will be used? For if you consider what general purposes the campaign has, what particular purposes it will have. That's one of the criteria. He turns to the public, the rate he has. A few rules of criteria. The agents of various departments decide what and how, and which. And then I don't know if these criteria are nobedad, but at least I know the way to share them. Because that's why the old governments didn't do it. He was sent away, saying, "There's a plan," and at the end of the year, "It's a plan." And these have been specific commitments. As to control, what was mentioned, the execution of those conditions required by the patricians. That was a breakup, too. In the same manner as in the case of the Institutions, all that ought to be sent to Justice, even those that were not asked for, at least that the Judge should know what he is about in this Parliament at the time of judgment. But, well, it's here, I think it's publicity, pathronium, criteria, that's the debate, it looks like an umbrella, but here it seems to be a very definite, very persistent pursuit of the Notticias. And there's no data, I don't care, the studio General de Meditos, CIES, the meter you want, and no one gives Noticias down to 10%. His entrance, his talent, his reader, his audience, his audience, no one gives him less than 10%. In that relationship with the Noticias team, it's not in coins, it doesn't come to 10%. It's a close one, but it won't get there. If then the legislative wisheth to examine all these things, it is said, perhaps this may be the way. Why I have seen her talk of Beitical, in her conversation of Beital, she puts an end to it, which is, as they believe, between the criteria which you receive in the Exodus, not only the opening, but the level of the eucalypancy, the equality, and social equality. These are probably the data I don't have, but you'll have, you'll have the Gipuese data gathered in the last four years, in those times when he was in charge, maybe the use of these criteria will give something of economic results. You have data from these criteria, from Gara or New or other media, like Info7, how much of it and how much of the Onda Vasca? I know how Onda Vasca had: zero. I don't have the facts, you'll have them, and I'd appreciate it if you'd tell us in the second round in the gym, the steps in the middle of which these criteria have been raised. Like in the gym. I tell you again, I don't have the facts. Maybe we should order at the Supreme Council, but I don't have them. Why, in this case, or in the great assemblies, the executive, under the cloak of a law, and in the execution of what this law says, I do not think it very proper to do so, even here in a dispute. Maybe it's a very rich thing to look into the future, but I'd like you to put those details on the table. And maybe we understand where the criteria app ends. And anyway, it's just the funk thing that's done, as long as it's possible, when it's time to hire those spaces or publicity, as much as it can be reduced. But you have a few limitations, if that's why, for example 2014. Of all that has been invested in the year 85%, it seems that there may be another 15 to help the patricians or some such inventorys. We must also know whether it is possible or not-that is to say, to make patricians or not. Because there's a lot of media, and there's also eucalyptic issues, or maybe we should skip the cinema and other sponsorizations. Then it would be better to explain all that, too. But the fact is that the president has fulfilled his five commitments. On the way to Garden, the shared system, taking control, filling all these parts, results are recorded in a memory, and the consequences are quite opposite. It is then possible to measure in two words what Maneiro intends to accomplish with his enterprise. One, he has to feed the matter, because he's sleeping in courts, and he brings the discussion to Parliament. And two, the savings you have with Noticias. And if they tell me, and maybe they lied to me, but twice, I've checked it myself, and not the General de Medios, nor the CIES, nor the rest of them, don't make Noticias fall below 10%. And all the publicity I've agreed to reach 10%, criteria, where's the trap? Where's the key? Explain to me why I have at least my data. And the report, I promise you, not the one, but I have examined and read the necessary ones. And it is to me that the most incredible transparency-makers are making the government, and I don't know what resolution this legislature will vote or vote for, it seems that we must discuss the criteria here either from an instruction or from what is called. Isn't there a law? Don't we have the criteria? Shall we here place criteria from an instruction, discuss them, solve them, and set some criteria to the government as co-worker?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u74	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the answering round Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u75	Thank you, President. It's certainly sad, it's painful. It is unfortunate that we have had to bring this matter back to Parliament. Because the Basque Government again fails to fulfil parliamentary mandates. It is certainly sad that instead of talking about other issues, we have to bring back issues that have already been discussed. And that we have to bring in matters already debated because, indeed, time is passing, the mistakes are not corrected, but quite the contrary, and the Basque Government, Mr Egibar, continues to finance a certain medium of communication as a matter of priority. This is the matter, and I refer to the data. And you're trying to justify the unjustifiable. The reality of the data clearly shows that this Government treats in a special way and gives obvious favor to a particular communication group, which is that communication group related to the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party. And the data is there and unquestionable. And you cannot fail to tell the truth, you cannot lie in this Parliament, as Mr Erkoreka did at the time, by the way, as a result of which UPyD brought an initiative to denounce this behaviour. Look, Mr Egibar, you basically intervene in this Parliament when there are issues that we say are very important and have to do with self-government, and when issues that are very thorny are discussed; or when very important and very thorny issues like this are discussed. That is why your group has chosen you to address this debate, rather than other speakers who have discussed the issue in the past. But it is the same who sends the parliamentary group of Basque nationalists to intervene in this debate, the data are obvious and put this government on the loose. It is evident that priority funding is given to a particular medium of communication, here are the data, they are objective. You try to mix this matter with UPyD's complaint, although they are different facts. It's a UPyD complaint for certain fraudulent advertising, and this is a matter let's say it's related but it's different. It is a matter of denouncing the favourable treatment that this Government gives to a particular means of communication. And it is a shame to have listened to you the things you have said, in the same way that it was or is a shame to reread what Mr Uribe said in the October debate last year, when he said that the groups that have submitted and subscribed to this proposal deny the reality, that is, the commitments made by the Lehendakari on 7 July. "And this seems unacceptable to us," he said, "they have made deaf ears to everything that has been said and to the commitments in force, which we do not think is right at all." No, the non-commitment is the lehendakari itself, one above all: let it not give priority to a particular medium of communication. That is what this Government was basically asked of a year ago and that is what it continues to fail to do. That is why it is certainly sad to hear you and your lack of arguments. It is sad to reread now the Government's response to the Socialist spokesman. It's sad to hear all these kinds of things, they cause shame to others. I hope this doesn't go free to the Basque Nationalist Party. The criteria may be different, but of course there are one or two which are fundamental, which is that of impartiality, which is that of proportionality, which is that of taking into account the audience of certain radio stations and the readers of certain written media. That is absolutely essential, because, as Mr Pastor rightly said, the aim of institutional publicity is to guarantee the right to information of citizens. And this is something that does not seek the Basque Government at all, what it seeks is permanently to give priority to a particular means of communication. I have nothing against that means of communication, I do not want any democratic means of communication to be treated badly. What seems unacceptable to me is that there is such a clear-cut deal of favour towards a particular means of communication, we all know that, here are the data. You have no justification, this government has no defence. And what I am concerned about is the impunity of this government, which, despite the fact that this matter was discussed a year ago, despite the fact that nothing less than the Permanent Chamber was called, even though the possible censorship of a prominent member of this government was debated, you are still in the same line because everything slips you, everything gives you anything. They don't care what this Parliament says, they think you are above good and evil and we will continue to bring this matter as many times as necessary. It is an extraordinarily serious fact, we are talking about the misappropriation of public money by the Basque Government to give it to a certain means of communication related to the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government. Have I explained myself, Mr. Egibar? This is basically what is reported. Did this happen? Seeing the data, it's obvious that it does. That the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation behaves in a similar way, benefiting certain means or harming some? That can be discussed at the Gipuzkoa General Boards or you discuss it with the EH Bildu group. We are talking about the specific behaviour of the Basque Government. And it is clear that there is a misappropriation of public money to hand it over to certain media related to the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government. And this has no defense, get out here Mr. Uribe or you, Mr. Egibar.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u76	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Count the EH team representative, Mrs. Beitilian, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u77	Thank you. I'm not here with data and I've got it because I feel it, and because I'm not even here with that will, you know, that level doesn't take us anywhere on this subject. And if you've noticed, I've been thinking about communication all my reading. What communications we have in recent years, and although I'm in politics I'm still very close, it's very obvious how things have changed. Communication world has changed terribly, and perhaps it would be a good time to reflect what really is to be changed. And perhaps that healthy reflection would lead us to think that the laws ought to change. But some of you don't even want to reflect. And do not use me as an excuse or as an argument, how shall we here discuss what the Government should do? Why are we here apart from making laws, etc? We have also to reflect on what is done and what is to be corrected. And I'm not going to come in with the Gipulia facts, because I've been thinking about it and putting my criteria together to bring back the reality of the gym. By the way, you've lied roundly too: that the Noticias Group has had 0 in Gipuzica for four years. A lie and a round one. I was the first year to distribute publicity, so I know it in the first person. And Onda Vasca wasn't even 0. That's not true, that's round. Not in the first year anyway. So four years of balance can't be 0. That's for starters. Second, don't use the data vice versa. I will not dispute here whether Noticias has an increase, but what is not permitted to be less enlarged by those who have a greater extent. And you use it as you wish: they say they have it so, and that's all he gets. But can he get more than one who has more expansion than he does? That's what's unfair and that's what happens. That's what happens. When we arrived in a complicated way, and I have to admit it in a general way, I've already said that the government has kept a little secret since we've had so many discussions here and then it's still doing it. And then it seems to me, in some measure, that in spite of the contempt of different critics, the law is only for this. Yes, but we also have a law of equality. And the law of equality says that no sexist content can be extended. What is it less than the law of equality in relation to the law of publicity? Are we really prepared for equality, or aren't we? That's one question too. And that, I think, is something to reflect. And then Mr. Egibar tells us that the government is very transparent. It's not like sending a report to Parliament. It changes the government's advertising activities. It's funny. It's obvious. I've read and examined those 300 folios myself. And he tells us he's using the public, the target. I've put some examples in it. I've been wanting to do that exercise. Do these criteria really apply? It is a simple instance, that a high percentage of young people, but a very high percentage, does not smell for ever, does not smell its own, in order to communicate other systems. And that's something we need to adopt. Society is changing. And if the government has to do what the law tells it to do, it must change its way so far as society changes. And that's what you don't do. And then I'd like to refer to the story of the euca. I don't know if I've interpreted Mr. Pastor correctly, or he'll tell me that somehow you have to separate publicity and subsidies. I know them clearly. But there are so many people in this country, there may be only so many people who can arrive at a stucco. And that must be considered. And today's criteria don't take it. Imagine, there is a law in the gym, a formula, an old, a new thing, but that says these things, for example: the enlargement will be taken into consideration, but it will also be considered as the medium of equivalence, which has the greatest extent of expansion. Well, I think that kind of variety requires eucaments. And that they shouldn't be made up with money-friends when the publicity is divided, because whoever gets to reach the larger sectors of society and only gets to the mainland has a right to it, because it's as official as the other language, that he can actually get access to this publicity. And I think that we have to think about it and reflection would be very healthy, and not to exaggerate the data here, the data there. If you know, I've gone there mostly. I think we can come here often, say this or that, about what the government does. Again, I will not say that all that has been said is false, but it seems to me that to remain in this position is to convince the Government that it is the end, and that every one who has said that Egibare wants to conceal reality and that they do not want to reach this true honest discussion. And I'm afraid that if it's the world of communication, like many others, it changes terribly quickly, and it's terribly changed, so what we should be thinking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Very briefly, to share a reflection aloud. I believe that here the substrate at the end of this that we are discussing has an explanation, I will not say psychological, because it is a political explanation, but it is a very simple explanation. And it is that when a political party governs for many years, for almost always, except four, when it has a very widespread and executive political power, it can end up confusing things. You can end up thinking you're a guiding party, you can end up thinking that institutions are yours, or you can do it in institutions and with institutions almost anything you want. That's in the worst of scenarios. In a softer one you can think not of doing what you want, but of doing what is just and beneficial to you. And I believe that to a large extent it is what has happened in Euskadi for many years and what to a large extent has also been happening now, a reflection of that. And it is that the Basque Nationalist Party in some way believes that the institutions belong to it by natural or divine law, and that it can make decisions on advertising as long as they benefit it, even if they are not fair, or adjusted to the law, and to a large extent that has happened. Then comes the pride, then comes the slightly strange explanations, then comes the calculations to see how I explain it. But what is a reality that should make this Government think is that all the opposition, the data available to the opposition, the data that we have had an opportunity to know, endorse this thesis of non-lawful use and, of course, political ethics in the use of public money in advertising. Something should make them think. Transparency, clarity, balance, equanimity, good use of public money, which is in the end like saying good governance, that is what should prevail. And if you do not understand it, you do not internalise it and this government does not execute it like this, this Parliament, although sometimes it is harmless, because one thing is for this Parliament to pronounce itself and another thing is for the government to pay attention, we must not give up on the effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u80	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u81	Mr Egibar, it is not pleasant for me to have to return to this rostrum to speak again on these issues, nor would I have to have made comments with names and surnames of certain media outlets, of both signs, I think it would not be the role of this Parliament. But it is not something that we have provoked, it has been caused by this Government with its attitude. I insist, if the lehendakari said in this rostrum, the same as I am now occupying, that what had been done was wrong, that it had to be corrected and that he undertook to do so and does not do so, however much he has drawn up a table of supposed criteria of application, which may not apply or perhaps are not the correct ones, because the result is the same as we reported, obviously not doing what was said to be done. Because I would like to remind you once again, institutional advertising – this parliamentarian does not say so – as established by the law that regulates it, is not to help companies selectively and discriminatoryly, it is to promote the access of citizens to information that is considered relevant and that they want to disseminate the institutions. And therefore, there is only one fundamental criterion, only one: the number of listeners, readers or media viewers, not anyone else who wants to put himself on the table. And in order to avoid bias and abuse, I believe that there is a very clear and very simple system: it is best to try to control as much discretion as possible, as is done, by the way, in the award of other public contracts carried out in this government. Minimize recruitment outside institutional campaigns, set objective criteria and, of course, report regularly to Parliament. That's what we're proposing. And don't you ever speak to me again please of sponsorships, which was the scarecrow that they wanted to put us in front of to justify the disengagement that had been made in the hiring of institutional campaigns, which nowhere put that they were sponsored. They were sold as government advertising through a specific medium. And in any case, I do not deny that there is that figure, which exists, but it cannot be used to circumvent the criteria of proportionality and transparency, which is for what was intended to be used and, unfortunately, it is for what we see that these systems are still being implemented. I simply wanted to say to Mrs Beitialarrangoity, I want to announce that we will support the UPyD proposal and yours as well. But I do want to give you a hint about that section that talked about taking the media into account in Basque, which I understand must also be included in institutional advertising. But it is also good to remember that through the Secretariat of Linguistic Policy the media in Basque have an important, extraordinary aid, which we do not criticize, of 4.8 million euros, plus another 400,000 more for the media in Spanish, which have part of its publication in Basque. I mean, to put things on the right track. And I ask you again – you cannot ask the government, because it passes from this debate, but I ask the Basque Nationalist Party – to make the utmost effort, because, as Mrs Beitialarrangoitia said, you can tell me that it reaches 9.5, 9.9, 10 the News Group. What is not a receipt is that you receive more money than another medium that has more audience, or more readers, or more viewers and more copper. Evidently, something smells bad there. Well, you guys get rid of that bad smell.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u82	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u83	Smells of smell, I come back. And if the numbers are placed on the table, as we have just mentioned, Mr. Pastetor has mentioned that there are 5,5 million in advertising accounts, and that the help for the benefits made about 4,9, and the new one gets exactly 1,3 million euros. That's there, too. But let's discuss the universe in cash and now for a year... I'd like to talk to Mr. Maniro about the long-resisted Diputation that I defended this subject myself. It's the delicacy or the difficulty of the subject that you have qualified, but I defended it myself, and then I argued about it, and so did Master Uribe. It's one thing I'm clean about. At least in communication, they told you you have to repeat things. You repeated it here today three or four times sleeping in apropiacion indebida de fedos plublicos para favorcer a los amigos, corruption, corruption, corruption, corruption. I'm inviting you, and it's not the first time. If you leave your office, go out into the street and say the same words, why use this tribe to pollute people as you use them, to put them into corruption, they pass through the courts, people are free, but you and others are terrible enough to throw them out of this tribe. So if you want to leave the house, or when you lose, you may not have much to do with it, go out and say what you say here in the street, and then find yourself in the courts of justice with the Galulian Party. And to finish it, I heard the conversation Mariana Beitalangarian did and you talked about communication, and you said that, in short, we can't use the criteria that are out of date in front of a new society. Okay. But when these criteria are applied, each one has his own responsibility. I told you, I don't have the facts and I wouldn't use them even if I did, because I don't think it's a very fair game. And you agree, you said, "I don't want to have sex with this thing." It is what I have told you, and the question was, almost by applying these criteria, what results it gave in the gym. And you said you didn't, or if you didn't. But here the President made some commitments to this constancy of Congress, and fulfilled these engagements. As to transparency, and transparency, of course, is not only to send information; the criteria are explained, and then the methodology is made from a committee of all departments, where ethical commitment, control, general standards, precise targets... It's all there. Can that be better? I'm sure we men can improve the things we do, fijo. What I don't see is... For the Law, if the Law be to be changed, and are to be more exacte in the Law, bring it into Dispute. But what you propose is that the Government should bring here an instruction, to say to you, "that my judgment is these, and that we may judge from an instruction." Do you think that's the best formula? Well, maybe you'll have to present an initiative to change the law, or you'll have to give this statement a figure that can be co-operative. But it's natural to make his politics under the cloak of a law. And I think in that advertising policy, what was wrong and what the president and I said was wrong and made a way, the President and I-I-I-I think he'd been through his commitments. At least that's our opinion. And again, as to this Noticias group, which, according to the data which I have hired, no one will give it down to 10%, and he who received it will enter the 9th 68th. Maybe it's not the most important thing, but I don't think there's been an abuse. At least that's our criterion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u84	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for Mistto-UPyD original text. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 25; counters, 47; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u85	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 36; contraries, 26; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u86	Therefore, the correction of the EH Collectors has been accepted. At this point I interrupt until half-past three. The meeting was interrupted at two and seven in the afternoon. The meeting begins again at three thirty-one o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u87	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Five point in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by the Coinova Alonso EH Collectors, a part of his capital in Burst. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Casanova, it's your word to introduce and remove the proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u88	Pick up where we are. Last June we experienced an important media and political storm following the departure to the Stock Exchange of the company Euskaltel and certain elements that surrounded this exit. On the one hand, the very departure to the Stock Exchange, the fact that a company such as Euskaltel was taken out of the Stock Exchange, which had had public origins, and on the other hand, an issue that was perhaps more important, but which was ultimately the most relevant, which was the issue of bonuses, the very high bonuses that the management group paid for captaining this privatization process. In the face of these two elements of debate, one may be against the two, in favour of one, and against the other, or in favour of the two. Our group, EH Bildu rejects both the exit to the Stock Exchange and the scandalous bonuses that the managers paid for it. There are other groups that seem to be in favour of the same, since around this issue they have no criticism to make, neither the Stock Exchange exit process, nor the scandalous bonus paid by managers for carrying out that process. We are going to give a series of data, because we in our motion called for the attitude of Euskaltel's management teams and certain officials to be reprimanded. And we believe that this reprobation, this rejection of the attitude is based on facts that really deserve to be regarded as rejectable and that have an unusual gravity and that it is the responsibility of this House, as representatives of the citizens of this country, to denounce them in defense of the common interest, which here has been damaged by a group of people who have acted, in our opinion, in a harmful way for that interest and that common good. Euskaltel is a company of public origin in its shareholdership, in its role and its business model, which was set up in the mid-1990s, with the aim of having the Basque Autonomous Community have its own company with a presence in the sector, which was already guessed at that strategic moment, of telecommunications. It has a tour with different substantial episodes, but I will begin the narrative of the facts, because it relates to the issue that concerns us of the departure to Bolsa, from August 2012, when this House decides to sell both the part of the fiber optic network, which is publicly owned, and the shares of this company Euskaltel, which was owned by the Basque Government. Months later these shares and that of other owners are materialized, and enter the shareholder Euskaltel, with a majority package, the International Cable Fund, which in turn represents other private investors. These funds, following their entry into the company, with 48 %, place their team in the leadership, on the board of directors, and begin to develop a series of practices that, in our view, lead to the presentation of this motion, which we believe are rejectable and against the interests of the workers, the company itself and the social majority of the country. We believe that this International Cable group enters Euskaltel with a very clear intention: to adapt the company to the tastes of the market, to take it out to the Stock Exchange and to get the most surplus possible at the cost of what is, at the cost of employment, of labor relations, of technological investment, of the company's own future. For that, a bonus plan is established for these managers, so that they act as genuine swearers with the aim of taking the company out to Stock Exchange at the highest possible price, bypassing any other kind of consideration. To the implicit motto of "everything for the dough", this management team begins to develop a series of absolutely rejectable business practices, the main ones of which we are going to expose below. Euskaltel imposes a premeditated strategy of job destruction. This is very serious, and this is what, as a result of the compromise signed by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, is going to go unreproved today, and is going to be applauded by this House today. This premeditated destruction of employment, which is, of course, a requirement for the exit to the Stock Exchange that these parties are going to applaud today. Employment is destroyed, because the market, which determines the prices of departure to the Stock Exchange and the contributions of the companies on the Stock Exchange, likes the companies with the lowest possible employment burden. It destroys employment on a premeditated basis in Euskaltel not because there are organizational needs, nor business needs, or because there are financial problems, but it destroys employment on a premeditated basis so that the company has greater value at its next departure to the Stock Exchange. In total, the number of employees increased from 552 to 300, of whom 70 jobs were liquidated and 180 were outsourced, i.e. transferred from their jobs and their employment relationship to outside companies still working for Euskaltel. The destruction of these 70 jobs is carried out by means of incentivised cuts, early retirements, not retirement replacements primarily. As I said, 70 jobs destroyed and 180 outsourced; this is the management intended for the exit to the Stock Exchange that some groups are going to applaud today. Euskaltel was a profitable company; even in the toughest years of the crisis, between 2008 and 2014, the company's accumulated profit was 230 million. The cost of staffing, of the total, even before starting this job liquidation process, was just 34 million a year, i.e. less than the 48 million peak we are talking about bonuses. The cost of the staff was not an insurmountable cost, it put nothing at risk, it was not an excessive staff, there was no need to respond to the business logic that led to the downsizing of staff. It reduces staff and destroys jobs so that the company is more attractive on its way out to the Stock Exchange and so that managers can collect the established bonus. In the meantime, other anti-labor practices are being developed within the company, such as the work freeze, and we say, in a period that was generating benefits. Work freezing that, of course, affects only the staff on foot, while in the senior management team those salaries would be increased, because they are worth it and the staff, apparently not. And because, moreover, all these kinds of practices then come to Parliament and applaud and nothing happens, it is not pointed out to the entrepreneurs or the executives who develop them. The outsourcings that Euskaltel has developed are also a second way of reducing staffing, but they also have another added drawback, which is that it has decapitalized technologically to the company, because the services that had a greater technological burden have been outsourced. Multinational paths have been transferred to both computer systems and operations and maintenance, leaving Euskaltel as a company without leading technological elements, which is primarily responsible for administrative issues, marketing, human resources management, minor issues from a technological point of view and which distort the establishment of this company as the backbone of research, and innovation in this country. This technological decapitalization was directed, no more or less, by the person who, in turn, apart from being the president of Euskaltel, is also the president of Innobasque, the Basque Innovation Agency. And that is why we, in our motion, ask that this attitude be reproved and considered that this person is not legitimized, for having decapitalized his company technologically, to be a reference of an entity, of a Basque agency, which precisely aims to promote research, R & D and the technological development of the country. Similarly, subcontracts have been pressured and the relationship with contracts working for the company Euskaltel has worsened. The distribution network and the network of shops have been pressured to adjust the margins, all in a period of profit, as we said before, generating a situation of tension, a bad climate between the company and its employees. And in addition, some contracts in the country, with a short-term vision, have been replaced in their services by contracts outside of Euskal Herria. When this whole process is already mature, when employment has been destroyed, when services have been outsourced, when margins have been tightened and adjusted with sub-contracts and the retail distribution network, then it is decided that it is time to take the company out to Stock Exchange and make cash. The funds buy three and sell twelve, they make hundreds of millions. You can also turn to this statement, that is, that the Basque Government sold at 3 euros the stock which was then worth 12, also there is a bit of a vision of the future of that transaction selling shares of the Basque Government. But it is true that these funds, within a very short period of time, achieve gains of at least 650 million euros. In exchange for nothing, in exchange for an investment that, I say, lasts little and does not contribute to the company, except for that immediate liquidity, which was also not essential, does not contribute anything, because they do not arrive as trading partners, they do not arrive as people who are in the communications sector to contribute a joint job, but they arrive as funds that only seek profitability in the short term and, as we saw, even if they have to squeeze the company, its workers and its employees to the maximum. And there is also the issue of the bonus, of course, which is the most talked about, that 45 million that is prize, it is the loot being taken by the people of the management team who have carried out this whole speculation operation that we believe it is necessary to reject here today. There is also a final issue of management that seems absolutely scandalous to us, and it is the extraordinary dividend that before leaving for Stock Exchange is distributed by the main shareholders, a dividend of 200 million euros that comes from a credit requested ex-professional to share it among the main shareholders. That is to say, the company is indebted not to make new investments, not to invest in R & D, that fabulous amount that any Basque company would give with a chant in its teeth for being able to access a financing at least close to that 200 million. Well, that money is not reinvested in anything that has to do with the improvement of Euskaltel's productive or business activity, but it is simply distributed among shareholders as a loot, because the company had a margin of indebtedness before its departure to the Stock Exchange. Therefore, we are faced with a promised destruction of employment, with a loss of stability and quality of employment that is maintained, with outsourcing, with subcontracting with companies from outside that replace local companies, with a rise in wages from the top directive parallel to freezing the wages of employees, with a technological decapitalisation, with unnecessary and unproductive indebtedness, with a drowning of the distribution network and with an indecent profit for the management, which scandalized the whole Basque society when it was known. This is what happened. And in front of this, I think we have to use our responsibility to raise our voice and make our report. We thought it would be consistent here when we accused him of what had happened, because it is so scandalous and so pernicious that we thought there would be possibilities for the workers and a hundred producers of this country. What we proposed was to complain and express that all this management was against the original philosophy and aims of this company. And we believe that what has been done here has nothing to do with the purpose, function, and philosophy of this company when it was founded. We thought we could all agree with this here to make it plain, because it is clear that this has been so. We thought it necessary to denounce the manager of this career, the members of the administrative meeting, the passive attitude of the Arkbanks and all that had happened, and, of course, the position of Internacional Cable. We thought we ought to report the bond that the members of the administration had made, which scandalized the whole community of euscal, and that this Chamber was also supposed to denounce the scandal and not admit that he ought to be charged with the names of those who had done this scandal because it was painful and scandalous, although later he made a little play, and at his own time said that the bond would be paid for the bonds. Then we shall see that this has no effect on the reverse, that the members of the board have finally produced more profit with this operation. We also thought that this Chamber had to say that Alberto Garcia Eraszkin, the head of this company, had no right to go on innoblesque or investigators. We thought that his professional activity was not at all exemplary, and that in the sphere of the incluso-estates in which these inclusolus work there was encyccantation, inquest, innocation, innocation, innocuous innocency, the practice of Alberto Garcia Eraschines, and, consequently, this parliament must certainly require such employments. But for some people there seems to be no problem at all. We thought, too, that if this wasn't happening, it would have to take another role in the company hooks, the pre-estate company for this town. We thought that the public should be kept up, and that, as far as possible, they ought to increase in their enterprises not to repeat similar processes in such strategic companies. We thought we were going to announce a powerful public sector, and we thought that in other parts of the left or self-relation, we might perhaps have a echoes in this request. But we've seen that things have gone differently. Finally, we'll place ourselves in front of a middle-way symbolic and trivial. There are expressions enough to express a good will and ethereal, but that when he goes to the exact things he gives green light and blesses all that has happened in the Basques. This motion we have tabled is not a motion against Euskaltel. It is a motion in favour of Euskaltel, in favour of his prestige, his dignity and the business model that has led him to be the company he is and to occupy the position of the leadership he occupies. Euskaltel is not where he is because he has been handled spectacularly well. Euskaltel is where it is and where we would like to continue to be with practices that are clearly different and more in line with the original model, because society has felt it as its own, as a different company, as a company that had added value, a je ne sais quoi or je sais quoi that made it different from other companies. But now they've pushed it to the Stock Exchange and it's going to become a company that works with that same market logic. We will continue to press for those origins, those founding principles in this enterprise to be maintained. But the Stock Exchange has its rules, and those who will endorse the departure to Stock Exchange of companies that were public, you accept those rules, you accept the rules of profit in the short term, you accept that in the shareholdership and, therefore, when making decisions between speculators, vulture funds, the sharks of Wall Street, the Lehman Brothers, those who speak of tax havens, in the end, you accept the dictatorship of the markets. You're going to accept that a company that came up with money and public effort, with objectives that went beyond pure profit, that had a contribution to make to this country, becomes a normal company, quote in Stock Exchange. And you also raise this model attitude to follow. Well, the truth is, it's too bad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u89	Mr. Casanova, thank you. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u90	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, today, Euskaltel has already sold part of its capital in Bolsa and it has been possible to prolong the situation of the executive bonus because of the political and social pressure that took place in June, with all incentives being reinvested in shares. And therefore the situation to analyze the issue three months after that convulsed moment is much more serene and allows us to make a more paused analysis of the Basque business model. The position that we Socialists are defending in this debate is in line with what our identity policies are, with our government action in the last legislature, and with the defense of a business model that, in addition to being rooted in the territory, is committed to the society that created it, making it compatible with the generation of private benefit with the creation of employment and the economic growth of the territory. The purchase two days ago by Euskaltel of all the shares of R Cable for 1,190 million euros is also a milestone for Euskaltel, an important step of consolidation of the company itself in the market of the telecommunications of Spain. It has been an operation that according to Euskaltel itself gives the new group greater strength, efficiency and capacity for growth, to compete in a demanding market as a leading operator in the north of the state and of relevance in the Spanish and European markets, while maintaining its strong position and commitment both in Galicia and in the Basque Country. Sometimes things take on such dimensions that they can make us lose the references. The Basque Socialists support in Parliament the authorization to the Basque government of Patxi López to proceed to the sale of Euskaltel shares and the fibre optic infrastructure in 2012, because, given those reports and the delay in justification, it seemed to us that the operation was timely and justified. Three years later, the announcement of the collection of incentives in excessive amounts by the leaders of Euskaltel makes the institutional, political and, of course, social alarms jump, because ethical values and commitments that we believed were installed in the Basque business model are not recognized by the company. And while it can be understood that a company cannot and should not miss the opportunities for growth and advancement that the market offers it, we believe from the Socialist Group that there are a number of values and principles that should be present and made visible in those companies in which for their birth and development there has been a significant percentage of public capital, with money, in short, of all Basque citizens. For this reason, we were surprised and angry in June at the lack of sensitivity of Euskaltel's management towards the Euskadi itself, when blinded by the millionaire amount of bonuses, they ravaged the investment of incentives in the company's shares. It increased from 0 to 50 % to the next day, later and after innumerable political pressures, reaching 100 % of the company's equity investment. They took away an obligation, which for us was moral, with the company's historical relationship with the Basque public heritage, and they forgot what it means for the Basque economy an increase in investment in these million dollar amounts, for a strategic telecommunications company that was rooted in the Basque Country. And that is why the Socialists have tabled an amendment, which has then been included in a compromise and which sets out three fundamental keys to our model of looking at the subject of Euskaltel. On the one hand, we believe that business management practices must be consistent with the search for improved competitiveness of companies, but also with the construction of a more egalitarian, fairer model of society in social and economic terms. Secondly, the socialists think that the company Euskaltel and its management teams have a commitment to Basque society, for the support given with public heritage to that birth of Euskaltel and its development as a strategic business project in the telecommunications sector. And that is why we proposed in the amendment that Euskaltel in its strategic decisions must maintain the company's link with Euskaldi, and that this commitment to Basque society must be translated into job creation and a commitment to development in innovation. Thirdly, the Socialists also consider that the company Euskaltel must establish a climate and quality working conditions in its organisation, in line with the availability of economic resources that is more than demonstrated. With the authorisation granted by the Basque Parliament in August 2012, the consolidation of the harmonised framework of free competition in telecommunications that had been achieved by all the Member States of the European Union was being implemented. In that framework of liberalisation demanded by the European Union, the Basque Government not only provided the public sector with adequate telecommunications infrastructure through its construction, but also provided the market with the infrastructure it had available through its lease to Euskaltel. This made it possible for competition between operators of the various telecommunications services to be effective and also real competition here in Euskadi. By taking part in Euskaltel's shareholdership, the Basque Government helped make Euskaltel the second largest telecommunications operator. In 2012, in the supporting memorandum that endorsed the sale, it was said: "The Basque telecommunications market is liberalised and it is time to act and fulfil the role of the Administration in the sector". The aim was to uphold the guiding principle set out in the regulation, which was the so-called minimum intervention principle of the administration, which should apply to the different ways in which an administration may be present in a telecommunications operator. The Basque socialists in the last legislature promoted the creation of enterprises, especially in strategic sectors and emerging sectors, as one of the important and key elements for the exit from the economic crisis. In addition, the socialists then created the Compite plans, the Leadership plan, giving companies the assistance and support they needed during the competitiveness improvement processes they decided to tackle, and empowering strategic country projects, tractor projects, flagship projects, such as future bets with an important technological and innovative impact, for companies especially with a strong implication for the productive fabric. The Socialists believe, therefore, that it has been timely and necessary to leave the company Euskaltel, because of the opportunities involved for this company to strengthen its leadership in the telecommunications sector, because it facilitates its access to more sources of financing and because it favours its future growth and development. But this cannot make us forget the social obligations imposed on a company that, like Euskaltel, had, as I say from its origin, a clear impulse and support of Basque society through its institutions with public heritage. In the amendment we have tabled, we also urge the Basque Government to continue to create new businesses, especially in strategic and emerging sectors, with the participation and assumption of corporate risk by both the public and private sectors. Because the Socialists think that what happened with Euskaltel should not happen again, but we also think that what happened cannot now become the inaction on the part of the Basque Government to participate in companies and promote companies in strategic sectors for the economic growth and development of Euskaldi. We know that what has happened has been lawful, that it has been legal and that the collection of incentives is a common practice when a company leaves for the Stock Exchange. But the event with the famous bonuses, which by their disproportionate amount have come to cause a social, political and institutional unrest, which in addition to the socialists we share, was a regrettable spectacle that must not happen again in similar circumstances. At the time we made public a statement, in which we considered that the announcement of incentives was very unediting for Basque society, which noted with surprise the size of the quantities committed, far removed from the domestic economies of the vast majority of individuals. Without forgetting the risk assumed by the managers with their investments in Euskaltel and the more or less usual that these practices may result, the Basque Socialists asked those who benefited from these incentives for a special sensitivity in the destination of these amounts, so that the citizens could understand that these incentives could become investments that in turn would translate into employment, innovation and the company's connection with Euskaldi if they were reinvested in the company itself, as has happened. The Socialists hope that with the amendment that we have had, a situation as unfortunate as that which occurred with Euskaltel more than three months ago, in June, will not happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u92	Mahaiburu anderea, legebiltzarkideok, aratsalde on guztioi. Many, too many times motions, interpellations or propositions are presented with a conclusive text that, decontextualized from history, from intrahistory and showing in exclusivity a conclusion, simulate a assertion that confuses, that seeks to confuse consciously. The exit to the Bag of Euskaltel, analyzed so coldly, with that single fact, can lead to radically different conclusions that have all its ingredients, with all its background. In the early 90s of the last century, the Basque Government took the first steps, which with public money boosted investment in the trunk and capillary fiber optic network, mainly in the three capitals of Euskadi. It was a public investment in a sector that was initially considered strategic and in which, at least in Euskadi, there was not yet a private sector with sufficient investment capacity for so much new technology. In 1997 the then vice-lehendakari Ibarretxe – and don't worry, I only quote it as vice-lehendakari – explained at this same headquarters how during the years 97 and 98 the Euskalnet network was to be leased to Euskaltel, a company initially set up between the Basque Government and Basque savings banks to become the second operator of telephones. While the staff and other resources of the original company were transferred, he also reported that the company's participation in Euskaltel, although initially I think it was 40%, should eventually be drastically reduced to become as much as testimony. The Government reported that the intention was to promote a company in a sector that was then emerging and already considered strategic, as well as that, as the sponsored company was being consolidated, steps should be taken to transfer it to the private sector. This was reported in this House in 1997, no one objected. And this has been the process that has been going on for more than 20 years. To begin with, therefore, it does not seem very fair, not even reasonable, to put a face of surprise when the process has occurred. It is true that no group questioned, in a forceful manner at least, neither the first steps nor those that succeeded it, including the gradual sale of shares of the Basque Government. There was only one opposition, by a certain minority, when in 2012 the previous government brought to this House the proposal for the sale of the remaining shares, as well as the sale of part of the capillary network. Now in the last step of the process, when – and this is already very important – the Administration no longer participates, we find ourselves at the exit to the Euskaltel Stock Exchange. It is not logical to amend such an operation, as it is a logical step and succeeds in consolidating Euskaltel as a leader in the telecommunications sector in Euskadi. Strategic company for the country, leader in ultra-fast broadband, digital television, fixed telephony and being the fastest growing operator in the sector. There is no doubt that it is a reference company in the sector. And at all times it has been shown to be a company rooted in our society, contributing country brand in number of areas, in which it invests an average of 50 million euros per year, and if it abandons some, it approaches others. For all that, we don't understand what it's so angry about, unless it's speculative anger. I'll give you some data. Euskaltel covers 85 % of the fibre-optic territory, invests in R & D+i an average of 9 % annually on revenue, has historically contributed around EUR 1 billion to Basque farms, has invested EUR 2 billion and has bought Basque companies worth EUR 2.5 billion. Not to mention that he works as a tractor in both the telecommunications sector in Euskadi and in other sectors. Do they seem to you numbers that justify being angry with Euskaltel? Do you not think that the initial impetus of the Administration, followed by the push of the private sector, is precisely the process that has achieved this success? It seems that despite everything, yes. Fundamentally for his departure to the Stock Exchange. It goes out to the Stock Exchange which, I do not doubt, has to do with the need of any operator of a certain size in the telecommunications sector who wants to remain in the current market, who wants to continue to grow, who wants to continue to invest in R & D and who wants to continue to generate employment. And, in our case, by subscribing to our estates so that our health, our education or our RGI can be paid. This was as simple as strengthening its position as a leading operator in the telecommunications sector, facilitating its growth, having access to additional funding to consider growth projects and ultimately to become more well-known in the markets. Is it ugly to do that? Do you find it wrong to go out on the market and ask for funding for a strategic project with potential for growth? With regard to the so-called plan to go out to the Stock Exchange, little has to be said, except that it is a plan driven and supported by the board of directors of a private company. Do you think that the Lehendakari or the Economic Development Advisor should sit on that board or on any other of any private company in Euskadi to go and indicate what they have or do not have to do? Is that your model of running society, intervening in the boards of directors? And in any case, going out to the Stock Exchange is intrinsically perverse? I am sure that, without being on the board of directors, those responsible for the Basque farms are satisfied that such a departure to the Stock Exchange has reported of the order of 60 to 70 million euros. Some of which, by the way, are of the famous incentives to Euskaltel managers and employees; by the way, absolutely normal model in the operation of investment funds. Which doesn't mean I love it, but it's a normal model. And that it does not have to break the idea of promoting companies that have been eradicated in the country, with economic and emotional links, job creators and open to the world, both in their recruitment of partners, and in their expansive possibilities. Anyone can have their reasonable personal opinion, which should not be transposed into political positioning when things have been done with the coherence and rationality that they are explained here. And it is that the departure to the Euskaltel Stock Exchange, however much you deny it, showed that it was a successful company in the sector, competitive, with relevant size and that it had expectations of future success, but, at the same time, going to the Stock Exchange was an indispensable process to continue to exist. In short, and hence the compromise reached with the Socialist Group, which certainly thanks for the effort made, which aims to shift the majority's view of seeing with good eyes all that it means to grow, to create quality jobs, to invest or to give better services every day, always in coherence with the maintenance of the link with Euskadi and with the society that boosted its birth and maturity. With regard to the implementation of his motion, we do not understand in any way that the direction the company has taken has changed, as long as it is argued that the foundational philosophy has been broken. I have already tried to explain to you that, almost since the first second, it was seen as a public investment in a sector in which there was no financial capacity in the private sector to move forward on a strategic project that could at some point be absorbed and increased by the private sector. That's what's been done. Then it doesn't seem reprehensible. I insist, if I enter if it seems even better or worse to me the bonus system of the directors of Euskaltel, regardless of whether in this state it has already been valued, we have nothing to reproach what was a particular decision of a council, that it does not contravene any rules and that it intends to involve the directors in the destiny of the company. With regard to the departure of the President of Euskaltel from the Innobasque or Ikerbasque foundations, simply point out to him that the first is not a public foundation and that the President of Euskaltel, as President of Innobasque, is a member of Ikerbasque, which is also not a public one, which appears on the lists as a non-public foundation participated by the Government, only participated. Then, apart from not participating in a kind of child punishment of ikastola sending to the corner, the Basque Government can do little with the matter, because, apart from not sharing it, it does not have the capacity to punish in this area. I'm going back to the beginning. After contextualizing the process, it is more understandable to know that in the 1990s the Basque Government started to invest with public money in the future in telecommunications and, as it was also warned from the beginning, as a private sector was being realized capable of absorbing what was created, re-creating it and contributing wealth to the country, it was transferred, as has been done on other occasions with so many other companies. And that is that we maintain consistency over time. And it is that, moreover, coherence approaches serenity and serenity to happiness, which, according to Gandhi, consists in putting together thoughts, words and facts, which is coherence, which is what has been done. And today there it is, there we have it: a strategic, international, solid and prestigious project. And you strive to say that things have been done wrong. Well, you'll know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u93	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing over to the teams that don't run, Maniro won't speak. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u94	Thank you very much, Madam President. If you read what the Basque Nationalist Party proposed in its amendment or the Socialist Party in its amendment, let's say you didn't have to disagree with any of those points. Even in the compromise amendment we could think that, except for a few things, we might be more or less in agreement. And recognizing that all those who have spoken are right, they will allow me, because we do support in their day and authorize the transfer of assets from the Basque Government to the company Euskaltel, but I also want to impose myself why and I want to remember what happened in that August 2012, because it was in August when the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs met to give this authorisation. There was a company, Euskaltel, with about 600 workers who could lose their jobs, with a fine of 220 million euros that hung over the company; therefore, the company had a problem. In addition, Kutxabank had 68% of the shares of this company that was a problem and had to get rid of much of that stock package, because if not, it consolidated its balance sheet, because it was a subsidiary of the company and the balance sheet was not to do great things. These things confluenced. And we obviously entered and supported the government, among other things because we thought it was good for the company, it was good for the workers and it was what had to be done. And obviously we agree that companies make money, a lot, that managers make money, a lot, and that workers make money, a lot. We don't think it's bad for people to make a lot of money, especially if they work it and deserve it. We don't go that way... But someone will have to understand that those same managers who were in August 2012 at the head of that company, that with public funds that company is revalued, of course three years later they are millionaires, because someone will say "man, here is something that fails". And it seems very good to me that I'm going out to the Stock Exchange. It seems very good to me that it is financed in many ways and in many alternative formulas, and that it grows a lot, and that it becomes a super enterprise, and that instead of 600, which is no longer 600, it was 1,200. But here's something that doesn't fit. That is to say, when things are raised in this Parliament reasonably, the groups are reasonably supportive of those things. When the final result hits you, and to me, what they want me to say, it hits me, it hits me that the bonds of those managers who were in 2012 are practically the price of the transfer of the Basque Government's network. Here something was made when the least weird. And I know that the Basque Government did not know those internal bonus contracts and, of course, in the Basque Parliament we did not know them. Now, Kutxabank, a major partner, hypermajority, had to know. And that was hidden here, it was hidden here in this Parliament, and that seems wrong to me. And it seems to me very good that Euskaltel is a successful company and I repeat that I wish I could make a lot more money, create a lot more jobs and people live fantastically well. But they will be with me when this Parliament in August in a hurry and running has to meet to do this – and I repeat because I have been there and it seemed good to me and we approved it – man, that the prize of those managers who to save the company had to do this either, in the end, that I don't care if they reinvest it in shares of the company itself, that is, as you will understand, it gives me absolutely the same, if in the end it splits into 20, 30 or 40 million I don't care if they take it in cash, that they invest it in shares or that they do with it what they want, that is already so and that is so, and that has no remedy. And therefore, to me that they reinvest in their own company, it seems very good to me. I would have liked it better if they had done it that August of 2012, but we did it. And when I say we say all the Basques, we're the ones who invest there. And I don't think we've caught a hole in the bonds.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u95	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing the answer shift, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u96	Mr Tellería, I was looking forward to your famous meeting of today's debate and I see that you have elected Ghandi, I think very well, on coherence. In point three of its amendment they say that "business management practices must be consistent with the search for improvements in the competitiveness of companies, but also with the construction of a more equal and fair social model in social and economic terms". I also ask you to be consistent, I ask you to be consistent that when you see that a business practice clearly violates the principles that you claim to defend, go out to the lecture and criticize it, you dare to criticize it. Because here you also said, "Let's make history, let's see it as a whole." Indeed, it is not necessary to go back to the 1990s, we will see the sequence of events since 2012, even a little earlier, when this Parliament sells, as was said before with "agstity" and lightness, the fiber network, agrees to sell the fiber network and agrees to sell its share participation. There is a whole process going on, and it is a process that has total and absolute internal coherence, that is, all the violations of labour rights, all the reductions in staff, all the outsourcings, all the tension of the network of distributors, of subcontracts, etc., everything has a logic, that is, "this has to go out to Stock Exchange at the highest possible price". And you sell out to Stock Exchange as the only option for businesses, and it's not the only option. 200 million looks like a fine that was going to shut down the company, and suddenly, by the art of birlibirloque, uy!, if the company is very little in debt, if it can ask 200 million. You say they need capitalization, to invest, for R & D. If I think it's perfect that companies take money for that, but I didn't have the only option for the Stock Exchange, I had other companies. And there it has been seen, they have asked for a credit of 200 million Kutxabank and the International Fund, 100 for you and 100 for me, for my pocket, not to invest in the country. That is to say, that it has a very urgent need for capitalisation that forces it to go to the Stock Exchange and distribute 200 million joyfully, of which this country sees nothing? And you say, "it's a private company." Of course, first they sell the public stake, and then they say it's a 100% private company and they can't do anything. Man, don't sell it. But you have already made it clear that that was your model there, but I do appreciate the consistency and clarity. The model of his party is best reflected even in his initial amendment, when he said "Parliament urges the Basque Government to continue to promote the creation of new companies, mainly in strategic and emerging sectors, so that, once they are viable, they encourage participation in their acquisition and management of the private sector". Here you have been very consistent. What happens is that the PSOE has perhaps been ashamed to sign this and has been removed from the final resolution. But here it is very well reflected what its model of what should be investment and public participation in companies: creating companies, betting, risking where no one wants to put money, where no one wants to finance, where things do not look very clear, and when it is achieved, losing in some companies public money, but in others, in which it goes well, it is taken, privatized and the benefit is given to the private sector. I welcome the consistency that your amendment reflected very well what the policy is and what the inspiration of the Basque Government is. Because the departure from Euskaltel to Bolsa, as I said, cannot be disconnected from all of the above. I have given here a series of data that have not been questioned, have not been denied, in fact, and have not been alluded to, perhaps because they are unquestionable. And that data means that there has been a whole practice aimed at that departure to the Stock Exchange, that the fact of exit to the Stock Exchange cannot be separated from everything that has come before in preparation for that departure to the Stock Exchange. And that is an attitude that I really believe deserves the rejection of this House if we want to be consistent, consistent even with what you in your own amendment defend, that companies also have to promote a more equal and fair social model. And when these principles that you claim to defend have been blatantly and clearly violated here, you look elsewhere and say, "Well, it's not so bad, it was necessary, we have nothing to say, because it's a private company." There are companies, and you have given me a number of issues about the health of the company Euskaltel. Indeed. But I repeat again, that's not because there have been financial magicians there, it's the same debate we have about Kutxabank. That Kutxabank managers have bought Caja Sur, they have gotten into a brown that they don't even know what to come out of, that's not that they're very good and that's why Kutxabank is so good, that Euskaltel is so good. The problem or advantage these companies have is that there is a society that perceives them as different. And that's why you're willing to participate and have a relationship with those companies that you don't have with any other company. And therefore, on equal or even worse terms he is willing to be a customer of those companies because they provide a plus. And if we're going down the road of those companies losing that plus, that plus of differentiation, of rooting, of doing things differently, of generating added value for the country, and those companies like Euskaltel and Kutxabank losing that plus, it's when people are going to lose confidence, and when that market position, which has not been won by the management of business geniuses, but by those characteristics that market position, is when it's in danger. It is therefore this type of attitude, this type of reckless practices, this type of aggressive business practices that endangers deep-rooted companies in this country, and not to defend that they fulfil a role and a social responsibility. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u97	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u98	Thank you, President. After this debate, we want to make it clear, as a party committed to the country and its economic progress, that the socialists are committed to creating and promoting companies that know how to grow and develop themselves. Companies with a real desire to create wealth and with a vocation to exercise leadership in strategic sectors. And the Socialists also bet that the dynamism and modernisation of our economy, which derives from this impetus and support for entrepreneurial activity, benefits greater well-being and greater levels of equality in Basque society. We believe that. And this requires a serious involvement of the public authorities so that economic progress and the increase in employment, welfare and social rights go hand in hand. Because we cannot resign ourselves, as if it were something natural, to the economic and social aspects of maintaining this growing imbalance that has been observed in recent times. And this applies also to Euskaltel, as a company that has enjoyed from its very origin with special support from the public sector. It is therefore logical that the representative powers of this country have something to say about the future responsibility that this company has with Basque society and with citizenship. Especially when its leadership makes very questionable decisions, which by their magnitude cannot be explained to a society that is suffering and suffering the effects of the crisis. And not only is this public control logical. It is also necessary to correct trends that increasingly hurt the sensibility of many people who are having a bad time. Democratic control must also enter companies, however private they may be, when it has been created primarily with public assets. And that is why it seems to us fair and healthy that Euskaltel's business march is under the magnifying glass of public opinion, under the magnifying glass of citizenship and under the magnifying glass of the institutions of Euskaltel. And in fact, being under that magnifying glass has had a positive effect insofar as it has made it possible for Euskaltel managers to correct and reinvest 100% of their bonuses in shares of the company itself. There is one thing that we have very clearly, and that is that the absence of controls and political regulations, also in the business sphere, does not solve problems, but rather exacerbates them and creates situations of injustice which are difficult to tolerate. That is why what we wanted with the amendment that the Socialists have tabled is to give Basque society some confidence in the business sector by demanding that business practices must seek to improve competitiveness, but they must also be consistent with the construction of a more egalitarian and fairer model of society, as I said before, in economic and social terms. A trust in the companies, that goes by recognizing the commitment, in this case, that Euskaltel and its management teams have with this society, by the support that they were granted with this public heritage at their origin and in their development as a company, and by demanding that in their strategic decisions they maintain their connection with Euskali. And a commitment to society, which translates, as I also said, into job creation and a commitment to innovation; that a climate be established, working conditions in the quality organization, because they have economic means for them. There's no excuse. We therefore understand the Socialists that we hope that the amendment we have managed to make will serve as an example to the extent that it reaches the Basque business model, so that situations such as those that took place in June will not happen again in strategic sectors and emerging sectors, because this depends on the growth of the Basque economy. And if we look elsewhere, we will be as irresponsible as those decisions that were taken in June at the beginning of the speeches. We cannot forget that economic growth sometimes, and when we talked about decapitalising companies, outsourcing certain services does not mean that companies are decapitalised, they will be different ways of seeing it, but that is the case. Let us hope that we have recovered, or that we can regain the confidence that has been lost and that situations like these will never happen again. And really principles and values installed or that we believed installed in the Basque business model are really principles and values that move forward, and not as has happened recently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u100	Mahaiburu anderea, legebiltzarkideok, raratsalde on berriro. I was not expecting, Mr. Casanova, what I was going to say. I knew what I was going to say. You had filed the motion and the other day the inquiry. If he was hoping that I was going to tell him here, he would convince him and change his position. But I've seen that no, that hasn't been possible and it turns out that my seduction ability has dropped wholes in the stock market. But what are we going to do to him, I've tried. On the one hand, he continues to insist on what foundational model has been broken? If I have already mentioned that there was a model, a business model, that is true. The problem – it's not a problem, it's the reality of the diversity here – is that we have different models. I have counted mine, and ours is a model in which we have no greater problem in pushing companies from a public nature, when there is no private sector capable of dealing with it, and at a certain time transferring it to a justifiably. Society theoretically recovers that money. We can discuss whatever you want, whether you recover or not, intentionality is that. It is not to keep the public, which is surely a model, its model is the functioning of all elements of society. Do you know who had the public telephone model? Franco, who besides having it public, used, I imagine, to listen to all the conversations we had. That's the public model. Because of course the model is different, and we'll meet there. But I think it's more transparent and more logical to explain to the public your model, mine, that I explain to you, and not to do it by the passive, as you do, in the bottom criticizing others. He's criticizing things, and he's filing to create something that might look like a model. Explain it. Tell us clearly they want a public Euskaltel, a public Bilbao Athletic and a... Yes, yes, every audience, everything with officials and say it and come and tell it. But explain it, not criticizing every time we do something, but creating you. They believe, don't destroy, that's the question. Because in the background, and from that vision of your model, more than disturbing you the bonuses of the managers, which bother you and seems logical to me, what annoys you is the departure to Stock Exchange of a company, that's what annoys you, because you lose control of the public even more. And I say again, it began as a public and ended as a private, because it had to be public at first and almost had to be private at the end. There was no other way. By the way, until the last sale of 2012, the people who could belong to the current fabric of EH Bildu never participated in that debate, since it was 97 that I told him never entered this debate. Because the public's not a guarantee of anything either. Look, it'll ring, Volkswagen and a billionaire fraud that can have other implications of another kind, of fighting for the market. The State of Lower Saxony knows how much it has? 12 %. And that doesn't guarantee that you do things right. Nor is this commitment that employment is of poor quality that has been created. Look, I just know that today there was a workers' assembly for the collective agreement. I don't know what the result is, it'll know tomorrow. As they have approved that, someone is going to eat the quality of the job potatoes. That is, in short, the public presence in companies, strategic or not, and which we do not repudiate at all, is neither a guarantee of anything. But I invite you again to one day if you want to ask for a monograph and explain your model, your business model, your model of society, your public model of things. I'll wait for you and we'll discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u101	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Finally, representing the Basque Popula Group, Lord Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u102	Very briefly, Your Honor. Indeed, it began as a public and ended as a private, and in the meantime some became millionaires, and that is what does not fit us with the whole outline of the approach that we have just defended today. Because obviously we do agree with that model that it has to be private companies and that they have to go out to the Stock Exchange, if they are interested, because they have access to more resources. But what is shocking is that in the transfer from public to private, those that the public had put to them become millionaires with the contributions of the public, which is what enhances the company. And that's why we, we have the discrepancy with what has been raised.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u103	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote for the original text of Mr. Casanova Alonsso's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters 20; counters, 51; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u104	So the motion was rejected. Next, we'll vote for the middle-term correction signed by the Basque Socialist and the Euccaner. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters, 41; contraries, 20; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u105	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Number of points in theme list: "The same proposal as the Socialists of Euscal, the new law-giver of working accidents and diseases, was made by the law of law. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez has the word to introduce and take off her initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u106	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, again today we must continue to talk in this House about cuts in workers' rights in a reform that affects mutual societies. And what is also very worrying, this reform also opens up a gap to promote the privatization of the public health system. We are opposed to the fact that mutual societies fall within the scope of public health, since this may mean that workers' rights are being violated, that the door is being opened for the privatization of public health, that the head doctor and the medical inspection of the public health system are being delegitimized, that a great bureaucracy is being created to justify rights cuts, and that the employer himself is being allowed to determine when and how he discharges and discharges workers due to common illness. Nor can the Basque Socialists agree that mutuals should come in to control the high and low parts of the workers, that is, the health care derived from the common disease, for our parliamentary group that is unacceptable. And all this is what allows the reform that was approved in December by the Rajoy government, with the support of the Basque Nationalist Party and Convergence i Unió. This reform, which entered into force on 1 January 2015, favours the privatization of the public health system and constitutes de facto discrimination in the treatment that will be given from health to all citizens between those who are workers and those who are not. And the party that governs in Euskadi, given its amendment, does not intend to amend this injury of rights, but what it aspires to is to manage the cut. The PNV proposes that we assume the competence of this new attack on workers' rights. It should be borne in mind that so far the so-called mutuals of accidents at work and occupational diseases and that, after the reform, they are referred to as mutuals collaborators with Social Security, are private entities, non-profit associations, made up of employers, without prejudice to the fact that their control and supervision must be carried out by the Administration itself. However, the functions they perform are of a public nature, they manage public resources, despite the private nature of them as associations of entrepreneurs that they are. However, this change aims to conceal the privatization of the area of social security management and health care, as well as to facilitate the expansion to other areas of the protective action of the mutuals that so far did not cover, such as common contingencies. By the way, there's a trap. The Government of Spain has eaten more than 45% of the pension fund in this legislature, a fund that will only be maintained if contributions are made. And the contributions are employees, but employees with the ability to contribute, not those figures that are used to make up the unemployment data, but that charge wages so small that their contribution can hardly compensate for the retirement expenditure. A niche that can be maintained if the workers as a whole maintain decent wages, not if they become impoverished, as allowed by Rajoy's labor reform. And why do I say this? Well, the reform affecting mutuals, if it were little, is going to draw more money from the pension fund, because it increases the number of mutuals' reserves and their accumulation margins to the detriment of the social security reserve fund. Sumo and I'll keep going. It also approves new salaries for those responsible for mutual societies and a new regulation of private assets. And in addition, in the event of bankruptcy, it allows the Government to go to the rescue of certain mutuals, using for this purpose money from Social Security. That is to say, private companies which are allowed to participate in the public management of Social Security, which have in their hands the guarantee of citizens' health rights, but if they are negligent in their management, the results of their mismanagement will be paid with the money of all citizens, because it comes from social security contributions. This major reform also affects the functioning of mutual societies as a preventive service, which was recognized in Law 31/95 on the Prevention of Occupational Risks, with implications for the current system of occupational risk prevention. The ESC considered it inappropriate in its opinion to ban mutuals from participating in the commercial prevention societies from now on, and in addition to obliging them to outsource the service, the permanent period of one year is imposed on them to separate the assets linked to the mutual prevention service, with the purpose that this implies in a time of crisis, where this obligation can lead to the misselling of the assets of mutuals, compromising the assets of mutuals, through hasty decisions to be able to comply with the provisions of this rule, which would have a negative impact on the assets of social security, where the assets of mutuals are integrated. A decision of this kind should have been preceded by a social dialogue and it has not existed. That is, far from improving management and transparency, we are going to the contrary, allowing a new business for entrepreneurs and private pockets, something that the People's Party is very accustomed to. And that is a time when citizens demand the opposite from us, they demand greater transparency and greater rigour in the management of public services. It is a summary of the sum of misconceptions and cuts in rights raised in this rule by the Rajoy Government and expressly supported by the Basque Nationalist Party. We know, and it is easy to understand, but not to share, the argument of the Government of Spain that what they are trying to do with this is to ensure that the control of discharges and discharges due to common illness means reducing absenteeism at work. The Socialists know that this is a genuine fallacy, for what they really intend to do is to strengthen the role of the mutuals. Socialists in Madrid and Vitoria continue to believe that mutuals should focus on insurance and the provision of services that require professional risk management. The PNV, however, in Madrid and Vitoria shows its intention. They confirm the fund and claim the management of these described misconceptions, as if by carrying Basque label they were less painful. No, in Basque or Spanish this is an attack on the rights to health and labour rights. And yet, rather than delving into the improvement of this service, what they do is to extend management to the common contingencies, so that they can affect the health of workers, overly reducing medical casualties, with the sole aim of achieving a reduction in spending. The Government of Spain, together with the PNV, decides with this reform to flee from the political and social consensus that can ensure that reforms of this great importance are in the future and therefore have a character of permanence. It wasn't like that. You have not sought that consensus again, and the majority of you in Spain are making a reform that affects the management of the social security system and the health of the workers in this country. Therefore, for all these purposes, it is a law that has been born with an expiration date. The Socialist Party already expressed in December in the Congress of Deputies our commitment to change it – and we now reiterate it by the Basque Socialists today in this Parliament – because in the next parliamentary term that begins at the end of the year the Socialists will change it. On the contrary, the Basque Socialists defend a Basque public health for all citizens, regardless of whether they are workers or not, and managed by a public entity, Osakidetza. Because what must be taken care of by the public is the health of the worker, not the interests of the entrepreneurs. This is what sets us apart from each other. And I hope that an agreement will come out of here defending the socialist initiative. For us, the most important thing is to express the rejection of the privatization of the right to health, as well as the discrimination of citizens according to whether you are a worker or not. That's what we'd like. And also that the Basque Government does what it has to do, not what its party does in Madrid, and what it has to do is to defend the interests and rights of Basques, of all Basques alike. This rule also makes it possible to conclude agreements and agreements with bodies managing social security and public health services, which would allow a number of medical acts to be carried out in their care centres, which will logically entail additional expenditure on Basque health. You can reduce waiting lists, but you will have priority, therefore, and more possibilities those who have the status of workers over all those who are not lucky today to have that status. Does this not again imply discrimination in treatment depending on whether the citizen is a worker or not when he or she is being treated? Well, we think you do. There is no obligation to sign such agreements, it is a voluntary option for mutuals, as established by the rule. That is why our parliamentary group believes that the Basque Government should not voluntarily sign these agreements and that this will prevent the covert privatization of public health, used by the mutuals for their own benefit, which can also have an impact on the damage to the services to which these centres are intended. That is why we would also like to see the commitment that this Government should be mandated not to sign the agreements with the mutual societies in the terms envisaged by the legal reform that we reject, or what is the same thing, that the Basque Government should not contribute to the reduction of the health rights of the Basque workers. We can discuss competences, our group assumes the whole of the Statute, also the article that allows the economic management of Social Security, but we strongly refuse to assume the competences in any way. We do not want to assume a single competition that involves cutting social rights. We want to assume powers to strengthen the rights of all citizens. That is why we support our initiative and call for the support of the different groups. It seems to us to be the most consistent, complete and sensible, and which fully coincides with the amendment put forward by the UPyD group and which also largely coincides with the proposal of the EH Bildu group, in which the rejection of the reform and the requirement for subrogation were reflected, calling for the non-subscription of agreements and agreements with the mutuals for the use of Osakidetza resources, which is also reflected in its third point. The amendment of the Nationalist Party and part of that of Bildu also call for the transfer of the economic regime of Social Security, and the competence of the mutuals having their registered office and exclusive scope of action in the Basque Autonomous Community. Not realizing that this is very complicated, because all mutuals have as a rule recognized in article 58.1 of the General Law on Social Security a national scope of action. We cannot therefore agree with the amendment tabled by your group in this regard. We therefore ask you to vote in favour of our amendment, which would prevent this covert privatization of social security and the signing of future agreements between mutual societies and the public health system to the Basque Nationalist Party. Correct, they're still on time. And I obviously do not ask the People's Party to join the proposal, because you will probably come out to defend that this reform is very good for the workers. And, of course, it is very clear that it is not. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u107	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Zulaika, representing the EH Collect Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u108	Thank you, ma'am, and good afternoon to all. As for the regime of the silent reforms of Social Security, it is a law which brings another diminution of rights from the Spanish Kingdom. On the other side, which intercrosses the relations of labour, it has been regulated only for the benefit of a time. And coming from Rajoy's government, the answer is simple: it has once more been regulated for the benefit of the interest of the patrician. The spokesman of the party who presented the proposal has already explained the several changes which this law has made. However, I will remember the most significant changes, and others also. First, in the motivation of reform, it appears to be a reform that decreases the rate of absenceism and reduces bureaucracy. It can't be motivated at all. It can't be accepted. This reform presupposes the character of fraud to the workers. The data shows that the absence rate is getting lower and lower. It's just happening the opposite in the past few years. Under the last form of work, workers, even if they're on food, can be thrown out, a lot of workers go sick to work. He's giving the hypnotism, even in private business or in public. But in order to continue the motivation of the law, the second reason given is that bureaucraticization will decrease. Because we're against that idea, too, because it's a lie. And even more so, professional members of the Osala will have to work a lot more for the silent. The change of the name of the mutes, the mutes of labor and industry, have become the collaborators of social security. That's not a coincidence either. The object, which really hides itself behind this change of names, is that the mutes have the power of managing out of their work, out of disease, and accidents. This enlarges the sphere of the action of the dumb, and reduces the public health system. In connection with the former, as to temporary impotence, the mutes will have more power to control, to continue, and to press the situation towards the end. Muts will be able to call workers from the first day of the bauy for a medical examination. If the worker can't go to his study, if he doesn't show up for any reason, there's a chance of interrupting the preparations. Then the workman will have only four days to justify the reason of not going, and again, if he does not do it properly, the temporary state of impotence will become extinct. That sounds very serious to us. It doesn't matter how you feel, in what circumstances, you have to remember that your prestige is a right that they can take away from you. This reform gives the mute more ability to control the health of the workmen, not only in professions, but also in the ordinary. All they have left is to give them medicine. That's the purpose of the patriarch, and they won't stop until they get it. The consumption of health management will follow, if the Government of the Kingdom of Spain continues to determine by this means. What would that bring? For the health of the workingmen to manage them in private by means of the dumb, and in the public system to manage other people's health-that is to say, the children, the most unemployed, the pensioners. Of course, for the prognostics that are to be done in Osac, the workers will have a priority, and the purpose is to give it as soon as possible from the economist point of view of the patrician. These are some changes which bring back reforms corresponding to the government of the dumb. They are changes which may harm the health of the workers and of the whole society in general. There is no change to the benefit of the workmen, but a reform made to increase the economic interests of the patricians, and give more power to the embryos. So EH, the most obvious repulse of the Union, is that reform. But not only EH Collect has rejected reform. When EH collected was not yet approved, the four unions representing the syndicate majority came in. At the Enplex Committee, they took up a position to give an opinion about the project. And the four unions, ELA, LAB, Comissions Obs and UGT, accused the reform. During the conference, E.H. collect introduced the proposal to the subject, and then PSE introduced the proposal. It was a three-point proposal. In the first place, we demanded a complete condemnation of the parliaments, and a retreat of reform; for this reform gave more power over the dumb to the health of the workers, and a new step to improve health. In the second place, we'd ask him to give us the rights to the health of Arabeba, Biscay, and Gipuzian workers, to do the Osaparts in the health of the workers, and so on. And at the third point, we were asking you to defend the public health system with effective means and to limit the hands of the dumb, not to sign any more agreement or concerts with the silent for the use of the happy resources, to invest in Osacy, and to make a plan for progressively integration into the public system, and consequently investing the accumulated sums into Osarans. On the Arab, the money-lender of the mutes who work at the Biscaia and the Gipuz, in order to be able to dispose of the money directly in order to dispose of it in the field. And finally, for the social protection that will secure the absolute jurisdiction of Social Security, by taking steps to demand and to develop the Euskal domain, to prevent the intervention of the public community in the Social Security of the State. These were the points and requests that were received in our original initiative. Before that discussion in March, we agreed with the PSE team, a middle course, which, except for the final point, received the other requests from our proposal. Then the discussion was not given, and our proposal was cancelled. PSE registered the proposal after that. The proclamation of the right of Social Security is not left, and EH Collect will continue to claim it, even in this and the rest of it. We know this will not be the last law that will come from Spain against the workers. And even more because we need all our tools to develop our own models in this too. That's why we presented our original initiative as a correction. PSE's initiative is, as I have shown, the medium agreed on between the two earlier groups. So then we agreed, and this time, because he gets most of the points of our initiative. He rejects the law, he favors a strong public health system, he asks you not to sign convictions with mute joys, and he asks you to integrate the health of the public sector into Osade. It would be a step forward at least if those points came out. So EH Collect will vote for PSE's initiative. First of all, thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Misst, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u109	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Indeed, as stated in the justification of the initiative, almost a year ago in Congress, a reform of the Social Security Act was adopted that affects workers' accidents and occupational diseases, called after the mutual reform of social security collaborators, and was approved with the votes of the People's Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and the ICU. We tabled an amendment in its entirety and voted against that law. The Socialist Group in its justification explains its reasons for opposing this reform, and we generally share its concerns and fears expressed in its justification. It draws some attention to the fact that the Socialist Group is so concerned about this type of reform, because, on the other hand, it is very sure that it will soon govern Spain, and therefore should not worry so much, you are going to fix everything and also in a short time. Even if this initiative does not go ahead, do not worry, that as soon as you reach the Government you will reform the country and will also do everything you did not do before when you ruled. The current mutuals of accidents at work and occupational disease have their legal origin in the articulated text of the Law on Social Security Bases, approved by Decree 907/1966 of 21 April, which defined them as private collaborating entities in the management of Social Security, serving for the exclusive management of the social security contingency of a professional nature. From its inception to the present, the regulation of mutual societies has undergone quite a number of reforms, such as the consideration of premiums as social security quotas for all purposes, the possibility of public enterprises and bodies joining them and the extension of powers to other social security benefits of a common nature. The 2014 reform gave particular importance to the regulation of the following aspects: the financial economic regime and the establishment of reserves, some aspects relating to management bodies, the regulation of the management of the economic benefit of temporary incapacity arising from common contingencies, changes in the provision of cessation of activity for self-employed workers, and also some changes in the prevention of occupational risks. I would not like to turn this House into a second reading chamber of what the Congress of Deputies is doing, but in any case, I will refer to what we were saying there last December when this law was being debated. We wanted to explain what we considered the five negative aspects that we observed in this legal change, the five concerns, the five main objections that we put on the table to table the amendment in its entirety and then to vote against the law. The first, we said, has to do with the change of denomination of these institutions. They're going to start calling each other social security collaborators generically. These mutuals, we said, were born in a very specific field, the professional field, and have acquired more and more competences of Social Security. This new denomination would give the impression that in the future it is intended to follow that path, that in the long term they will be able to manage any social security benefits. And we said that it seems a mistake to us, and therefore we believe that the designation of these institutions should be more limited as to their area of competence, which originally had to do with the professional sphere. The second issue concerns the financial economic system, i.e. administrative costs. These administrative costs have traditionally been higher in mutual societies than in social security management entities, and these higher costs have led to cases of mismanagement and even, we said recently, cases of fraud which have jumped into the media. By the way, this questions the aprioristic idea that mutuals are always by definition more efficient than social security managers. We said that the bill should better regulate these administrative costs and limit itself further, because there is a clear reference, which is the social security management entities, which are characterized by their efficiency. Thirdly, the draft law regulates the governing bodies of mutual societies. We believe, first of all, that the regime of incompatibilities set out in the draft law is not strict enough, it is too lax for those who participate in the governing bodies of those entities. We are surprised that the participation of workers in these governing bodies is not foreseen, since ultimately it is the workers who receive the services of the mutuals. Those control commissions should be better regulated if they were to perform their functions properly. The fourth question concerns the management of the benefit of temporary incapacity for common contingencies. And we said, there is a certain presumption of guilt of the sick worker, who is thought to be not going to work without being really sick. And there is a certain presumption of complicity of the public health doctor, which seems to be that if he does not discharge, it is not because the worker remains ill, but because he is in no hurry to return to work. And in order to avoid these alleged problems, the mutuals are given excessive powers, so that they can control the casualties from the first day to the day following the issue or can issue proposals for discharge. We are concerned, we said, about an issue that is ignored, which is a social reality today in Spain, there is that obsession for the worker who is fine and simulates a disease not to go to work. But in our social reality the opposite is happening, that is, workers with very precarious jobs, afraid of losing their jobs and who are sick to work as a result of that fear. This happens more than the other, people who are actually sick, but yet they will not work out of fear of being unemployed. Finally, the last concern has to do with the agreements that the mutuals will be able to make with the public health service to test or treat workers who are temporarily incapacitated. If we continue along this path, in the long term there is a risk that our health system will end up being fragmented into two subsectors: a health system for workers, which is dealt with in mutual hospitals, and the rest of citizens, in the public health system. And we believe that the right to health is a universal right and that our health system must maintain its homogeneity. These are the arguments that we raised in that debate and for which we tabled our entire amendment and voted against the law. The problem of mutual societies, their existence and their participation as managing agents in social security benefits is not new, and precisely the Socialist Party in the years it has been governing has never taken steps to limit or eliminate it, perhaps they will now do so as soon as they arrive at the government with an absolute majority, I suppose. The question of mutuals, in any case, has a lot of fringes and discussion, and deepening the truth is that there are many nuances to be made to the socialist proposal, especially as regards points 3 and 4. The proposal in point 3 calls for no concert with mutual societies to strengthen the public health system. The point is that as long as the mutuals exist, despite having a critical and reformative and reformist position with them, it must be recognized that they have resources, many of them specialized, and that to dispense with them does not seem to make much sense. And with regard to point 4, logically no one can be against what is proposed, investing in Osakidetza is obviously fine. However, what follows in the proposal is somewhat incorrect, occupational health is not contracted with the mutuals, what is the payment of the economic benefits for casualties in common contingencies and the complete management of the occupational contingencies, thus paying the corresponding quotas. Leaving the mutuals and returning to the mutual INSS is a thorny matter, so any change demands, I believe, debate, agreement and changes where it corresponds, that is, in the Congress of Deputies. It seems to me that an issue such as that raised, especially in points 3 and 4, to put it through a non-law proposal seems excessive to me. That is why we would be prepared, in particular, to vote in favour of the first two points, and I would abstain on points 3 and 4. I would therefore vote in favour of points 1 and 2. I would ask for the vote on points. We, in our amendment, wanted to take that into account, for this Parliament to express its rejection of the reform and to call for its repeal. Entering into other thorny matters and doing so through a GNP certainly seems excessive to me. Beyond the fact that some of the approaches put forward by the Socialist Group spokesman can be shared.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u110	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Adarz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u111	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu anderea. Sailburuak, pick up where we are. In this debate, we from our parliamentary group would like to make three points before defending our amendment. And for this we are going to follow the original scheme, because I consider it so, in origin, by EH Bildu and copied mimetically with a final exception by the Socialist Party. One, reform. The State Government presented a project of laws to change the written text of the General Social Security Law, concerning the legal constitution of the workers of Social Security and the mutes of the silent industry. In September 2014, our parliamentary organization of Madrid presented an entire correction of the bill of law to return to the government. We introduce this amendment by ignoring the autonomous competences provided for in our Statute in the field of occupational risk prevention, as well as the competences in the field of health and specifically in the management of certain contingencies such as temporary disability. At the outset, this prevented our group from supporting its content. This draft did not fulfil the mandate for the reform of the legal framework for mutuals provided for in Law 27/2011, with the intention of giving guidance in the draft law to the model of mutuals absolutely contrary to the norm and which was widely agreed, and we therefore called for its return to the Government, calling for a comprehensive review of the draft. After our amendments were not accepted in Congress, the seemingly insurmountable difficulties were removed in the Senate, curious practice of the People's Party, finally adopting a text, from our point of view a good text, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the mutuals and the effective management that they have traditionally demonstrated in relation to the contingencies that they protect. It would be unfair to forget its pre-existence to Social Security since 1900, its operation in collaboration with the public system and the creation of a contingency fund that preserves and protects the social security reserve fund itself. As we can see, our approach in General Courts is something very different from the image that you two wanted to convey here today and to which the image of our position in the vote was transferred in its raquitic justifications. However, thanks to our parliamentary group in Madrid, the initial contradiction of the Government of the State has been remedied, thanks to our parliamentary group in Madrid, the proper functioning and effectiveness in this area of social protection is guaranteed. This is what we call a parliamentary battle in Madrid. The second is the guarantee of health rights. The advisor Darpón every time he has occasion reminds us of the inspiring principles of our health system: universality, solidarity, equity, parity, citizen participation and sustainability. I really, and by linking to the second point of your texts, do not know which part of the principle of universality they do not understand. In response to the defence of these principles, on 29 May last Councillor Darpón gave a full answer to Mrs Zuilaika's question on this issue. First, he identified the four areas of negative impact of this reform on the health system: times, electronic means, diagnostic tests and treatment, and agreements and agreements. Secondly, it has put forward concrete actions to deal with them in the event that they occur, because, as Mrs Sanchez says in the justification of her initiative, this reform may involve. That it can involve does not mean that it necessarily involves. The adviser showed us foresight, the Basque Government has foreseen these possibilities, these implications. He showed us the will to continue to maintain the management of temporary disability due to common contingency in the public health system. And he gave us an image of a claim to the need to address the transfer of the social security regime to Euskadi, including mutuals in their supervision and control. Thirdly, the defence actions of the system. And in this third question, we consider it essential because of its importance in our reflection on the last two points of the initiative, to which Mrs Zulaika has also made a special reference today. Mrs Zulaika proposes to us a will of an extrastatutory nature to establish unilaterally, and she says, "requirement for the development of an area of social protection that guarantees the full and full competence of Social Security, a will to establish unilaterally a Basque area of social protection in order to avoid interference by the State". That, you should know well, is impossible. But it is not the demand for a transfer from the economic system of Social Security, which includes, among other issues and for this particular matter, the authorization and control of the Basque mutuals. As in other matters, Mrs Zulaika, nothing is born of zero in this matter, there is no blank paper, and there is no financial capacity to be born of zero in this matter. It seems to you that there is nothing, in this particular matter, until you came up with the brilliant idea of writing this non-law proposal on January 19 of this year. You are very wrong, Mrs Zulaika, if there is, there is an article 18.2 and a fifth transitional provision in our Statute of Autonomy. This has been referred to in the morning. Is that a lot? Is that a little bit? It's a lot for us. And what we do know is that without management through a dignified and coherent transfer of the economic regime of Social Security, which includes mutuals in their supervision and control, it is not possible to build a Basque framework of social protection, nor a Basque model that clearly establishes the work of mutuals spoken of in the non-law proposal. Finally, in this matter, as in others, where is your alternative model, what Mr Telleria said a while ago? Where is that credible, real, effective model and a model that isn't built in a cloud? Where, beyond rejection and altisonance, did transit do more self - control? Our group believes that statutory compliance is this transit. That is why we are presenting in its day and today we are defending our amendment, an amendment that follows a scheme, a very different path from yours. Mainly, we require the Government of the State to comply with the law and to transfer the management of the economic system of social security; and in the specific area of mutual societies, this transfer must include the functions of guardianship, authorization, supervision and control, including its financial regime. A very different path, just the opposite. You start on the roof, we cement and then we go up, as has always been built in this country, by the way. Faced with this approach of ours, we will also find, without doubt, with the usual counter-argument of the People's Party, based on two pillars: the concept of a single box and the financial balance of Social Security in Euskadi. Mrs. Llanos, the one-size-fits-all box doesn't exist. It did not exist in 1978, it did not exist in 1979 and it does not exist today. It is a legal artifice, it is an extra-constitutional construction created by you in a re-centralizing ordinary law. They have been creating this artifice, this smoke curtain, manipulating the concept of the unitary character of the system, mixing it with the later pseudoprinciple of the unit of box until the concept of single box is removed from the joke. There's no single box. And today there is another proof in this debate, the mere existence of mutuals is a clear evidence of the absence of a single box. The other argument, the financial balance of Social Security in Euskadi. It has already developed these days, even in the general policy plenary of last day 24. Just to say that the mere fact that they mention it takes away the reason for the earlier argument, because if that box is already consolidated, why do they keep arguing in relation to the balance? All this artificial argument that you develop has one objective, one objective with two parts. On the one hand, disguise, make-up, justify the failure to comply with an organic law for 36 years, our Statute. On the other hand, to prevent the Basque Government from replacing, in its relationship with Basque citizenship, the governing bodies of State social security, which is consistent with the exercise of our powers under our Statute. Failure to comply with the law, which they never want to talk about, is a matter they don't like to talk about. Don't do us the favor of protecting ourselves, arguing empty boxes and scales. Worry about complying with the law and let us use the instruments that suit us by history and by law. In conclusion, Mrs Zulaika, and recalling another debate with Mrs Arrondo, who is here today, while referring to another subject, in that case to the retirement supplements for women workers, you will recall Mrs Arrondo, part-time workers; different subject, but debate concerning the same concepts. Mrs Arrondo raised a question at the end of the debate: what solutions could be proposed to overcome that situation? That day we gave the solution to Mrs Arrondo, today we give the same solution to you: the solution of Article 18.2 of our Statute. In this way we would resolve the issue of mutual assistance, the retirement of part-time workers and many outstanding issues. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u112	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Mrs. Llanos, representing the Basque Potula, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. We are here before an initiative that we could call a recycling initiative, a recycled initiative, because this initiative was originally presented by EH Bildu in this House, it could not be defended because the representatives of EH Bildu were expelled, and the Socialist Party has done a recycling exercise and has resubmitted it. And, as Mr Maneiro says, we are here for a second reading initiative, which this House so much likes to use the Basque Parliament as that second instance of the Congress of Deputies. What is not achieved there because you do not have enough votes, because you bring here to see if you get a victory even if it is merely symbolic, because it serves absolutely nothing, because it is a competence of the Congress of Deputies. But, well, some with those symbolic victories seem to be happy. Reference is also made to the fact that the votes, the roll or the absolute majority were used there, and then act followed by saying that it had been approved with the votes of the Basque Nationalist Party and of Convergence i Unió. What happens is that the Socialist Party is worth an argument and the opposite, and so reverends. And the truth is that this issue has been discussed profusely, debated in the Congress of Deputies in full, in a paper, in the Committee on Employment in Congress, in the Committee on Employment in the Senate, in the Plenary of the Senate and ends its course, in fact, on December 19 with its final approval in Congress. And after incorporating the amendments adopted in the Senate, this law is passed, which is related to the legal regime of mutual workers' accidents and occupational diseases. The aim of this reform, as much as some like to do something else, is to introduce a regulation to modernise the functioning of mutual societies and precisely to increase management and enhance transparency. It also improves the management of the various benefits for the benefit of protected workers. Better care is being sought to reduce unjustified absenteeism in the workplace. Because they will be with me in which unjustified absenteeism in the workplace will have to be reduced, because in this way the competitiveness of companies and consequently of the economy as a whole can be improved. So far the so-called mutuals of work accidents and occupational diseases of Social Security become mutual collaborators with Social Security, a term that seems to cause controversy as well. They are defined as associations of private entrepreneurs of a non-profit nature, whose sole purpose is to collaborate in the management of social security and whose scope of action extends throughout the national territory. With this law it is done to regulate the nature and functioning of these mutuals, as well as the content and form of exercise of the public functions delegated to them. This law seeks to give coherence, as I say, to the legal nature of the mutuals, to this duality, allowing the private sector to participate in the management of the public thing, but always reserving the state the ownership of the benefits and the ownership of the resources. It is a reform designed for potential workers who may be affected by temporary disability and who will benefit from better care and simplification of processes. And as much as it is said here, it is the health of the worker that prevails over any consideration. One issue that has been sought to be resolved by this law is the problem that existed in the delay in the response of public health services to mutual discharge proposals. But one thing must be made clear, the granting of the benefit and the recognition of the discharge or the discharge is a public responsibility. The decision-making capacity on discharge of a worker always has it, always, by a doctor in the public health system. But the new management of temporary incapacity in common contingencies allows mutuals to be incorporated into the control and monitoring of the benefit from the first day of the leave. That when the mutual considers that the worker is in a position to be discharged, he may make a proposal to discharge the medical inspection of the public health services and the worker. That proposal must be substantiated and justified. Quite the opposite of what has been wanted here to be translucent. And it's about getting rid of bureaucracy, but the last word, as I say, is always going to be the doctors of the public health system. In the presentation of this proposal it was pointed out that the mutuals come into the field of public health, and this may imply violating the rights of workers, privatization of public health, more bureaucracy, delegitimization of the head doctor, that it is the entrepreneur himself who determines when and how the discharge and the discharge due to common illness to the workers, come on, an apocalyptic vision that has nothing to do with reality, because none of that is so. It is true, and I have just said, that mutuals can act from day one, but that does not mean that they will make proposals from day one. No, you will make the discharge proposals when you consider it, and in any case, as I say, it will be the doctor – I don't know if the public health doctor does not deserve your trust –, the public service doctor who will finally decide. There is therefore no privatization of health, nor is workers' rights being curtailed. To say that, in addition to false, is to do demagogy. In the Congress of Deputies the socialists spoke of distrust, which we had distrust with the doctors of public health. No, listen, you're the ones who seem to have mistrust with the doctors, because it's radically false that it's others except them who are going to discharge in this case. They have come to say, some have said here today, "they will have to go to work sick if the mutual sees fit." It will be if the doctor considers that he is no longer ill, because, I repeat, it is the doctor who decides. The Socialist Group has again spoken here today about the privatization of social security and unfairly accuses the People's Party Government. And it was a socialist government that introduced changes with Law 35/2010 to avoid unnecessary prolongation of the processes of job losses due to common contingencies of the social security system. They speak of the privatization of health, when this law does not attribute any more competition, which you did, in many laws promoted and approved by the socialist government it is granted to the mutual most competition: in the year 93 the incapacity for work due to common contingencies; in the year 2007 the management of the risk of pregnancy; in the year 2010 the cessation of activity of the autonomous; in the year 2011 the benefit for the care of children affected by cancer. This project, which then becomes a law, does not in any case imply an application of the management functions of Social Security, but rather does systematically incorporate and order the powers already held by the mutuals and which had been granted primarily by socialist laws. It doesn't give a new competition, that's right, it increases controls. And what did the Socialist Group say here when, year after year, the socialist government was giving new powers if it did not extend controls? I was not the same in this House when that was done, but were you all opposed, saying it was a privatization of social security when it was given different powers to mutuals? And look, if you look at each other with a magnifying glass today, it's partly because of the discontrol they had in the socialist era. And what happens is, what happens now to this law? What happens to many happens: where I said I say, I say Diego. Now you're saying you're going to change it, you'll know. When they arrive, it won't be in December as much as they want, but when they arrive they sure that they then seem phenomenal and far from taking away their skills, what they do is give them more. I don't know if you do contrition by lamenting what you've done before. Because here we hear them every day "what we did was not well done," but come on, you have to be doing acts of continuous contrition, because all the issues that come out, they all say they would change it, and it turns out that what you are going to change is what you did yourself. Well, I'm telling you, contrition continues. And you talk about privatizing. And if you read the debates in the Congress of Deputies, precisely one of the things the Nationalist Group accused was that the mutuals had been published excessively, that they were being given an excessive public character and that we were interfering from the public in the private sphere. So, one thing or the other. One thing and the opposite is difficult. Bildu here has made the same maximalistic assertions he made in the justification of the original initiative. And with regard to the Basque Nationalist Party, he answered me before I spoke, because I wasn't going to say anything to him, nor about the single box, I wasn't going to tell him any of that. What I was going to say to you, one thing I had already prepared and another thing I told you after your intervention, the truth is that it gives pleasure, you have to see what has improved that law with the intervention of the Basque Nationalist Party. If you weren't, come on, the law would have been infinitely worse, I don't doubt it; where a nationalist intervenes, everything improves unquestionably. But I will tell you that your amendment, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, calls for more skills. It's almost never too late, because here too. But what I'm telling you is that if this was so vital, in the Congress of Deputies they didn't talk about claiming jurisdiction. You there, made a defense of some of the issues you have raised here today, but you did not speak. And what's more, ICU – which I believe goes a little further than you, or at least the advertiser more – said that I felt that the powers of the Catalan government were perfectly respected by this law. I understand that it is never too late and any time is good for demanding more powers, but I say to you from now on that we are not going to vote in favour of your amendment. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u114	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the answers, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u115	I'm gonna start focusing on it. First of all, I would like to refer to the points made today in the rostrum by the EH Bildu Group. I recognise that the initiative was presented by you, of course; that it did not fall in the plenary on 26 March, not because it was rejected in the plenary on 26 March, but because you left that plenary exactly. But this initiative was of great importance to the Socialist Group, and we therefore took it back in July and presented the initiative again. Because this reform, as I said earlier, is a major reform. However, we did a job at that time, we came to a compromise amendment, which in the end could not be voted on, and that is what I logically picked up in the presentation of our initiative in July. With regard to UPyD's approach, Mr. Maneiro, I have to tell you that you have me a little out of place, because you have had me to yes, that no, that a chaparron falls, that now I say yes, that then I say no, that now I vote the third but then I do not vote... I find it very incongruent to say to me now that the third point, which refers to the rejection of the signing of the agreements, does not seem to me to be the right one, when you in your amendment to the whole point specifically pointed out that the Basque Parliament is calling for the repeal of this reform, because it considers that its implementation could lead to negative consequences for the management of the health service, having a negative impact on the workers, and that these consequences highlight the danger of the covert privatization of the health system, and on the other hand, the possibility of creating health lines for workers on the one hand, and for those who do not have the condition on the other. For that is only avoided if we ask here for the rejection of the signing of these conventions. Because it is through these agreements that the door is opened to the privatization of the health system and to the differentiation between the treatment that individuals or citizens may receive as workers or as non-workers, which is what I explained in my first intervention. With which, it's a little incongruous, because one thing goes spinning to the other. So you cannot say that you reject that and say "I am not going to vote or abstain on the third point", which is precisely the one that reflects that rejection of the signing of the conventions, in order to prevent precisely that reform from being implemented in this Autonomous Community. I hope you will still think about it before the vote on the third item arrives. I do not mind voting for points, we can vote for points perfectly, because at least the rejection of this reform and the rejection of this discrimination, which means that it is precisely possible to favour those who have the status of workers over those who do not have that status. But it's incongruous that that last point doesn't come out. And with regard to the approach of the Basque Nationalist Party, I have already indicated to you that we do not agree, that mutuals have a national scope, that mutuals are financed from social security quotas, so I would have to collect a serious study of the division of the whole single box of the social security system, which does exist, and cannot be the result of a new precipitated nationalist illusion. Of course, that is a very serious matter, and since it also has a national scope, it is a complex issue that cannot be done in this way. And with regard to the People's Party, please tell them that it does have important reforms, which include the possibility of high and low in the common contingencies, which so far has not been collected. It is a very clear difference and it will allow precisely that after five days, if the medical services when the mutual wants to give the discharge have not answered, and it is very complicated to answer all the workers in five days, directly the discharge of that worker will be produced, with which if the discharge was not correct, the worker will already receive directly the damage. And that is stupid, because that is going to happen, because in fact it is impossible to be able to attend to all the workers within the time frame that marks the reform that you have presented. And he's probably going to tell me when he gets out that we leave the pension fund with nothing, because they always do it when the final shift comes to them, because it's the non-amending and closing shift, and they're going to blame Zapatero. But I'm going to tell you that it is you who leave the pension fund empty, because we left it in 2011 with 66,815 million euros. You started the decrease in 2012 to 63,815 million, in 2013 to 53,744 million and in 2014 to 41,634 million. And at this stage they will almost leave him with nothing, with the consequent risk that this poses to the workers. In addition, they add that they take money from him that came through mutual channels and that he is now going to stay in their reserves, that he will stop going to the Social Security pension fund. Which gives you another twist of nut so that you also lack even more money, apart from having detracted year by year you a lot of money. Then I advance because he will say it in the reply and so I say to him: no, that it is you who did it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u116	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Zulaika, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u117	Eskerrik asko, mahaiburu anderea. To start with the Socialist Group, yes, indeed that day we were expelled from this room for also making another democratic demand, and that is why this initiative that we had planned to discuss this day here has fallen. And it does not seem to us wrong that because, indeed, it was such an important initiative you have presented it, and that is why in my previous speech we said that we are going to support the initiative that is being proposed today, because we believe that it reflects to a large extent the points that we and we were proposing. Tell EAJ what are you accusing us of? You've had 35 years to be and ask for that. Why didn't you? You can do it, of course, and we'll be ready for it. We've talked about this this morning for a long time. He also mentioned the interpellation we made to Councilman Darpón, in May I think it was. And also Mr Darpón in that intervention said, I will read it textually as far as this part of the law was concerned, the also economic part due to temporary disability derived from common contingency: "More narrow than the previous one, but indeed its content affects the functions that public health systems carry out in the management of temporary disability by common contingency, and we do not like it". And this repeated it I think two or three times throughout his intervention. Although you in Congress voted in favour of this law, which also came out with the PNV's favourable votes, today you have the opportunity to really reject it, if that's what you really think. Because it is true, even though Mr Ajarza has tried to sell certain goodness of the law, I repeat that we do not find any in any sense, much less as regards the health of workers and the health in general of society as a whole. Moreover, it will assume, as we have said much more workload for the staff of Osakidetza. Also this morning at first we talked about the situation of the Osakidetza staff. Well, thanks to this law, they're going to have a lot more workload. And what about the laps you're going to have to give a worker or a sick worker. When the four unions were attending, specifically the LAB union set a very clear example that I will move. Do you know how many doctors and doctors can control a worker while on leave? First, your primary care doctor, who gives you the discharge. Second, send you to a specialist. Third, he quotes you to the mutual. Depends on what you have, the mutual sends you to another specialist; we carry four. He's offering you discharge. Then he quotes you from the Medical Inspectorate. After talking to your head doctor, he disagrees and does not discharge, then the mutual sends you to the INSS and then the INSS quotes you. Six doctors to decide about your discharge. And it may be that so far no one has asked you how you are or for your health. And worst of all, with public money. I'm not going to stretch much longer. I believe that all groups have, more or less, shifted the great aggression, once again, against rights, this time also against a fundamental right, which is the right to health, which is going to affect not only the working class, but in general the health of society as a whole. I do not expect you to support this initiative, but the PNV still has time to rectify, to support this initiative, because I believe that this rejection is important. In addition, I believe that not only rejection at the first point, but I believe that the last two points also take steps forward to prevent at least public money, public resources, from privatising health.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u119	I will be brief in my speech, even in the replies. Don't make me repeat the arguments all the time. I have already explained my arguments for opposing the adoption of this law at the time and I believe that the most direct way is to repeal or change the law; I believe that this is the best thing that can be done and is what is reflected in our amendment. And I believe that what the Socialist Group proposes, especially in point three, is a kind of patch, it is a kind of new dual health system: on the one hand the Basques and on the other hand the rest of the Spanish citizens. I think this is not the way, the best is to change the law. Therefore, have a little patience, as soon as you rule, which will be soon, change or repeal the law, and from there we will all be much happier. Therefore, thank you for the insistences, but I remain in the initial position. I would vote in favour of the first two points and abstain on the other two. If none of them came out, I would vote in favour of my amendment. I ask everyone to vote in favour of my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u120	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Arianz, Eucobertarians, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u121	Eskerrik asko berriro. Mrs Zulaika, I really don't know where you're falling from now, because if there's one thing Mrs Llanos has said about us precisely, and I don't have the text now, it's that we take advantage of anything, I don't know what it was like, Pisuerga and all these things, we take advantage of any time, any chance to be there, to claim what we consider fair. This morning I believe that this issue has been well developed, that of asking and getting, by Mr Joseba Egibar. What I'm telling you about your text, and I'm telling you again, is that in the real world, when we go through the real world, we don't see buildings flying, we see buildings that are cemented. In the real world you see political-legal constructions, nor are they made in the air. These constructions, which is what you propose to us, need a legal anchor. Where do you propose to anchor the scope of social protection that you propose to us? That's the point. Where do you propose to anchor it? I'll make you a proposal from where. Tell me, as Mr Telleria said before, what your proposal is. Mrs Sánchez, Mr Itxaso the other day already gave us the forecast of the next elections, today you have given it to us again. Mr. Maneiro seems to agree with you, too. I mean, they're going to win the election on December 20th, apparently from the poll that's been done here. I don't know if it's a probe, maybe we should keep doing probes. All I'm saying is that you should change this regulation, amend it, taking into account the broad consensus around Law 27/2011, don't forget to change it. And by the way, by the way they're going to change this, they're going to comply with other rules. For example, they comply with Organic Law 3/1979, which they can also in passing comply with. Mrs. Llanos, we always take advantage of it, I said. Against, in opposition to what they were telling us from here. We always take advantage, always the arguments. Win those who win the elections, what we want as political formation, what we want on this particular issue, is to comply with the law. And that you do not entangle yourselves as you have entangled yourselves for many years in legal marañas. We've already talked about the legal marañas, the single box, those legal marañas around the single box. They are not tangled in technical-financial gills linked to the balance and these issues. Not even in goodies, those goodies in which I believe you are an expert. The other day he gave us a fine example of this. And I was saying something like this: you want to do the sixth course without having approved third. Let's see, the subject next to 18.2 is 18.1, inner healing. For more than 30 years, we have been taking out plates and highlights in this subject. Of course, if you mend the exams, we know what we're gonna get. I mean, don't use goodism, we're not talking about this, we're talking about law enforcement. They comply with the law that was agreed in 1979. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u122	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Finally, representing the Basque Popula Group, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u123	Very briefly. Mrs Sánchez, you haven't answered anything at all. It was normal, because there was no answer either; because in the first intervention, of course, when one opens the turn and the things he says are demagogic and are pure slogans that behind have no realities, and then they are answered, obviously afterwards they cannot be rebutted. First he told me that the discharge was given by the mutuals, then he said no, that the deadline was very short because it was five days. Then, the doctor gives it, but it is that the deadline is very short, it is five days. No, it is that the worker deserves to be answered as soon as possible if there is a proposal for discharge, and appropriate measures must be taken to ensure that those five days are sufficient. But what you can't say is that because it's only five days, it's been privatized and the mutuals decide on the discharge. No, no, It's just that you can't lie like that, because what's in the law is what's in the law, and now it's not that the mutuals were releasing, but there's only five days. And I wasn't going to talk to you about the pension fund, because, really, the Socialist Party is coming to me to talk about the clean-up of accounts, it's not worth commenting anymore, it's just that you don't have to draw data, it's vox populi how you leave the sanity accounts, in any ministry and in any administration of the central government, come on, it's not necessary for me to get it out here. I will only tell you one thing with pensions: the difference is that you froze them and we have raised them, that is the difference between pensions. With regard to this issue, one of the myths is broken: the re-centralization of the government of Mariano Rajoy, who takes everything out without counting anyone, who as he has absolute majority... Indeed, some parliamentary group appreciated the willingness of the Government to engage in dialogue in this matter. And proof of that is that it is supported by more groups, apart from the Socialist Group, including the Basque Nationalist Party. I'm not going to get mixed up here with the one-size-fits-all box, or the scales, because look, I told a partner of yours the other day, there's no worse blind than the one who doesn't want to see, and I can tell you here millions of things, but if you don't admit that there's a deficit in Social Security when that's a subtraction, then there's no more to say. But I'm just going to tell you one question, you say you take out outstandings and honor plates. Look, if my son put the notes on himself, either of the three, I'll tell him the notes that would come out, come on, all outstanding, because when you ask him "how did the exam come out," "phenomenal." Now, of course, he doesn't correct it, it's corrected by the teachers, and of course, the outstanding and honor plate he had put on, it's already down. Of course, if you put the note on, let's, like my children, excellencies and honor plates. Since there are others who have to correct, the note drops. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u124	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the first and second point of Euscalia Socialist's original text, won't we, Mr. Maniro? And then the third and fourth? Excuse me, one and two, single. One and two and three and four. Okay. First point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 69; the supporters of 35; the opponents, 34; white, 0; abstentions, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u125	So the first point is accepted. Next, we vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 69; the supporters of the party 35; the contrary, 8; the whites, 0; Abstations, 26.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u126	So the second point is also accepted. Next, three and four together. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 69; supporters of 34; contraries, 34; white, 0; abstaines.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u127	So, since it's equality, we're going to vote again. Three and four points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 69; supporters of 34; contraries, 34; white, 0; abstaines.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-08.u128	It's a draw, so we'll go to the next round. Since the list of subjects has been exhausted, I look upon the whole meeting as an end. The meeting ended at five-thirty.
