ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Disposition of the whole bill which changes the law of activity the third time. The discussion and the vote. We're going to start with the Motel. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Congressmans, good morning to all of you. I am about to make the proposal of the change of the law of Commerce, which is presented to this Chamber, and by this the article of 10/7/7 of the State of Autonomy was placed under the protection of the foresight that the 7/1994 law of May had established the means of modernization of commerce, or that it had before me to remind you that it was always difficult to establish a balance between the new forms of commerce and distributions which had been made in this law. In the initial writing of the law, in this law, the hours of commerce and the days of opening were scarcely regulated. In like manner, it must be said that the Decret Act of Kings 20/2012 has established the liberalization of trading hours for areas where many tourists are collected. This regulation obliges great towns, in the week-ends and holidays days, to determine which fields and hours may be opened, and if they do not, if they do not, the time of trade will be wholly derogated in the whole town. As I say, considering the facts that motivate the need to amend the current Act on Commercial Activity, it must be borne in mind that the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 specifies that those municipalities that do not delimit an area narrowing the space and time of large tourist influx will automatically see how liberalization is imposed throughout the year and throughout the municipality. In a first phase, fourteen municipalities were included in this regulation, including Bilbao. They are municipalities with more than 220,000 inhabitants and more than a million overnight stays. And two years later a second decree-law was drafted, on 18/2014, which lowers the thresholds to 100,000 inhabitants and 600,000 overnight stays, and in this case also includes Donostia-San Sebastián. It should be recalled that the Basque Government has appealed, on 30 December 2014, this royal decree-law, and that in addition, Article 10.27 of the Statute of Gernika establishes the competence of the Basque Government in matters of internal trade and its capacity to design the commercial policy it deems appropriate. The State, in the exercise of its basic powers, cannot therefore exhaust the regulation of a matter, in this case the commercial one, without regulatory margin for the Statute itself and for Euskadi. For this reason, as I said, the Basque Government resorted on 30 December 2014 to this law, which forces our municipalities to apply unwanted hours in the Basque commercial sector. And we did it almost a year ago, currently waiting for a resolution. In addition to bringing forward this remedy, the Basque Government also considers it necessary to exercise on other fronts, in order to safeguard, in the exercise of its powers, the principle of total non-liberalisation of business hours in the Basque Country, and to do so in line with the sector and, above all, with the municipalities. That is why we need to amend the current Commercial Activity Act, which is what we are presenting. In our approach to change, the municipalities have a leading role to play. Protagonist in its propellant quality and in its definitional quality, we could say, as those entities that will define how it will be executed. The sector participates and gives its opinion because of the obligation to open a time limit for claims set out in this amendment. In this way, the establishment of areas with a large tourist influx does not create any obligation to open, but recognizes the freedom to do so for women entrepreneurs, who will use the above-mentioned amendment in accordance with their individually designed trade policy. They have the last word. We do not intend to open any more commercial establishments to attract more tourism. That's not the reason. Today we already have a growing tourism. What is possible is that in the two months of the highest incidence of this tourist influx, in July and August, we gave coverage to more than half a million people (in this year 2015 we counted 664,104 people) who are new potential consumers. According to the barometer of the Basque retail trade, the incidence of tourism in commercial activity, in the activity of these shops, reaches one in four establishments. Therefore, it generates an increase in commercial spending that is not negligible, and, of course, a net employment that we are also obliged to consider. I would also like to clarify something important about this amendment. We have worked to narrow down the scope of the scenarios proposed in the legislation proposed by the State in each of the categories covered. The proposed amendment will maintain the diversity of commercial supply, avoiding complete liberalisation of schedules, and at the same time updating other aspects equally necessary to improve the competitiveness of the Basque commercial sector. The regulation of the modification of the law has three articles and a final regulation. The first article has been introduced into the principles of the order of the law to encourage the use of resistance. The second regulates the process of appointing or declamating places of high tourist traffic in the first settlement. And the third article, on the other hand, tends to rule for the future supplications of trading hours. And he adds another additional regulation to the law, concerning the taking of the force of the law. So, considering this, it must also be said, that the measures established in the law of the 18th, 4/2005, for the equality of the women and men, have been considered. In the first article, the Laws are the 49th of the 7/94 Law of May. it changes the article in some way, and it is precisely asserted that the administration will consider the principle of free and loyal zeal as its guide, and the principle of the defence of the interests of the consumers and clients. It will, therefore, be sufficient measures for the rationalization and modification of trade, and to encourage the use of the euphora. 2. Extra regulations are assigned to the article 49. in this article, and it is said, that to consider the consequences of this law, they will be considered as a place of great tourists, if one of the following conditions be fulfilled: The second condition is that the property of one of the categories which constitute the inheritance of mankind, or of the euscal culture; the third, to have the influence of the limits, or to stand beside them; the fourth, the great sports or cultures of the States, or the next, to be near the ports of the tourist voyage, or to be near the ports where many visitors are left; the principal attraction to be the center of the tourist trade; and the latter to be the last special conditions which justify the latter. In this regulation, too, it is also said that the municipal councils, who think fit to name and determine places of high tourist traffic, will make a definite proposal to the chief chief chief physician of their jurisdiction in the field of commerce. In this proposition the cause must be clear, which comprehends the foregoing conditions, and must at least determine what is the condition of them; and, moreover, it ought to lay down the place or places it will take within, and to what period of the year it will be. Before the council consents to the council proposal, it will be opened before the townships give an account of their opinion, in order to arrange a time of their own, and in which they will be accountable for the chief corporations or organizations of the greatest delegation and the most important delegation in the township trade and tourism, and for those of their historical territory, and if not, even if it were not, the Basque Autonomy. It is also said, that, having received the proposition, the resolution of the proposition will be given in four months' time. In the first place, of course, we must listen to the department of trade and of such a kind of tourism as has the jurisdiction of these departments of Counsellours and Deliberations. What will be determined in the resolution: the duration of the appointment or declaration, and the application to what place or place it is to be. And if there is no resolution after that period, it will be understood that it is agreed. The name of a place of high tourist traffic will also lead to the liberty of the time-tables and opening days for the trading establishments in it. They'll decide when and how they want to open it. If the reasons for naming a place in high tourist traffic disappear, the second commission mentioned will be in his power to cancel the nomination, always after he has heard the council. And in the third article an additional regulation is added to the law, as I mentioned: In order to make a rule about the trading hours, it is given the right or permission to develop this law. We are obliged to respond to the new needs of the commercial sector in Euskadi, which, together with the hospitality industry, contributes 13,8 % to the gross value added of Euskadi and employs 13,9 % of the Basque occupied population. It is a sector that struggles and continues to struggle in a changing, globalised, saturated environment and, above all, with consumers who really today have very different habits than they had a few years ago. The commercial sector of business has been reinforced in the year 2015, and 87% of the settlements are saying today that he hopes to maintain or increase his business. The negative rate of 5,3% per year has now been passed to positive %1 and the fourth growth has been completed, so we must respond to them. The Basque commercial sector is beginning to appreciate a certain recovery, although we must be cautious, as in any other respect, because restoring the levels of consumption we had in 2009 is going to be really complicated. The expectations indicate that the sector faces the future in the medium and long term with moderate optimism, and we are convinced that the proposed law amendment that we are making and that we are presenting today will help to strengthen this position, because it responds to very clear and very concrete needs, which will be better addressed after the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. After that, we'll open a favourable turn to defend the corrections. Who wants to participate in this side shift besides the owner of the correction? No one else. Mr. Casanova, the representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u3	Hello, good morning, everyone. Today we are discussing a proposal to amend the Commercial Activity Act which has a single objective: to create and propose a number of mechanisms for large commercial areas to open on public holidays, in certain areas and dates. And then I will explain why the only objective is that large surfaces can open and why this rule specifically affects large surfaces. It is a sensitive issue, and I would like to contextualize the general situation of trade and the policies being developed in recent years towards this sector. And I say that this is a sensitive issue because, as the Councilwoman has rightly said, we are talking about a sector that may not be considered strategic for other sectors, such as industry, but which has an important and indispensable weight in the economy as a whole, around 14% of both GDP and employment. And it's a sector that with this dimension is going through a really fragile situation. If we look at the period of the so-called crisis, from 2008 to 2014, we see that in the Basque Autonomous Community 15,000 jobs have been lost in this sector, approximately 10% of the total, and commercial establishments have also fallen by 5,000. That is, 5,000 fewer establishments, 15,000 jobs destroyed in this period of crisis. Those who survive, moreover, are in a much worse situation than a few years ago, and in some situations they are living in a real war economy, fighting for their own livelihood. Last year, when there was already talk of recovery – or some started talking about recovery – even so, the number of jobs in retail trade was also reduced by 1.2%, slightly more than a thousand, with a negative balance in the closure of 366 establishments. And this year, this year, when some people are talking openly about recovery, we have to consider that, if this rate of employment decline has actually been slowed down, we are also not in a situation where the bells can be blown off. We are talking about that in the course of the year we have seen an increase of 0.6 %, both in employment and in the sales of retail trade, which, of course, is not going down, but it is a pyrical rise, and it is also much less than was expected at the beginning of the year. They're getting frustrated, they're not meeting expectations. We are therefore faced with an important sector for the economy which is in a very critical situation in terms of employment and activity data. But if raw data is hard, we must also consider that, apart from the absence of the shop, the character of the shop is also changing, that the damage of a crisis and improper policy is becoming quantum and qualitatory. There are fewer traditional shops, and more and more important trades and franchises. The traditional shop is disappearing and instead multinational and franchises are multiplying. This world of multinational and franchises produces, at least, changes in two planes: in these new districts, the conditions of labour are worse, and they encourage the uniformity of cities, products are more and more alike in all the cities of the world, and even streets, colours, figures, and appearance. All cities are more and more alike, the cultural multiplicity and consumption options are disappearing. And as we have mentioned the conditions of work, we cannot forget that if there is a process of wronging the conditions of the work here, it is much more crude than this process of production in the productions of very cheap products. There is this behind cheap prices behind franchises and parrots: The exploitation here and there. And we are not in principle, in fact and in all cases, against franchises and supermarkets, but we have to defend a balance, we must find a balance, a balance, these new formulas, and the traditional trades, that each of us should be filled in the proper circle, that is, we must always be in our compass to have adequate conditions and to have lots of offers to live cities. Besides, we've just met a very serious news last week: It has been leaked that the Supreme Court can suspend the law of Esscal, which hindered the opening of a great deal of trade, under the verdict of an accusation made by the proprietors of a Donostian commerce. What's left of us? If there are few problems, perhaps now I say perhaps because the sentence is not yet public, we do not know exactly what it will say, but we have learned from leaks that large shopping stations will open new possibilities, so bad news will open to traditional commerce. And this is, as it were, the sodium of a context, in which this law is to be placed, as it were, at present in the sector of commerce, but there is also a political context, in which this law ought to be placed. And the context is that which constitutes the political context of so many measures as it is fostering from the State. We are speaking of commerce, and first of all we must say that the last apportioned dispositions of the State are the first to mention certain definite decrees, even in this respect, that those which we inhabit are placed in the sphere of commerce in a line of work very well planned; The politics of the state is extremely consistent, and it develops around the two axes; centralism and liberalization. They wish to abolish the autonomical system by means of the phactic requital of the hands of the central state, and the disappearance of the public and of any economic regulating by a ultra-vieral ideology. The exposure of the timetables is included in the context of this attack. Many decrees are proposing to liberalize the schedules. This is a Liberal and a central attitude. The State had already introduced the permission to open for several holidays, and now, during the past years and months, by the appointment of places in high tourist traffic, she wants to extend the necessity of opening at holidays. We have seen in our own country the necessity of naming in both cities (Bombon and Donostian) the large rounds of their tourists. The auto-gravity we have on the stage today doesn't make any sense of regulating the time of the shops. Moreover, it is impossible to develop our own economic policy based on our economic structure and our socialized reality. So far the delicate state of the sector, so far is Madrid's central and liberal composition. And now we're going to check out the part that's called 'Methk'. We're on the run. We're talking about a change from the commercial law. Why? Now, as it is said in the explanation, it is plain, for the first time, literally: "To the execution of this legal obligation, and the like," and our astonishment here on this occasion, we must conclude that other townships of our townships, too, might be able to assemble to a declaration of great tourist places. This is the essential purpose of this change." So apart from obeying orders from Madrid, the motu proprio is planning a new opportunity for making new places of the big tourist tour. I mean, instead of avoiding and trying to comfort Madrid, it's a EukoMork, and besides, it reproduces its influence by providing a process of extending the nomination of places in the big tourist traffic to new areas. The laws made by the government have but one end: To establish procedure for naming these tourist regions. In the discussion of this law, it is evident that the sector does not clearly see this change, because in general it is opposed to the penalty of timetables. Many arguments have been shown during the discussion to deny this law, and we shall here sum up some of them. We have to say that this law in principle already gives a letter of nature to a competitive invasion. It originates from a Madrid imposition, which not only does not fight, but is assumed and also develops and goes beyond the imposition itself. In addition, it is an imposition that is now being appealed by the Basque Government itself to the Constitutional Court, so it makes no sense to go ahead with this resolution. And in any case, if the resolution were unfavourable to the interests of this community, we would have to look for mechanisms to make the damage that these measures imposed from Madrid cause, and not, on the other hand, to assume and develop them and extend them, as the Basque Government does with this proposal to amend the Act on Commercial Activity. Normative change, as I said at first, only affects large areas. That is, this is a rule for large areas to open on certain dates on holidays. Why? Because the commercial areas of less than 150 square meters already have that possibility today, and they do not exercise it in an absolute majority, except for very specific exceptions. And they don't exercise it because it's not profitable for the little ones to open up. And, therefore, the only ones affected by the change would be the large surfaces. In addition, we have to bear in mind that a process is being carried out of migration from these large areas of the urban periphery to the centre of the cities, so there is also a danger that, although urban areas are being narrowed down to be declared tourist areas, within those urban areas there are increasingly large areas and, therefore, these large areas are benefiting from this measure. Tourism is just an excuse. The tourism sector today does not need at all..., and the data for once we agree that they are absolutely favorable, due to various factors. But tourism is experiencing a time of great bonanza, and, of course, no one thinks, when it comes to making a trip, to look at the schedule of the shops. And this country has been looking for gastronomy, culture, parties, as experts say, but no, of course, business hours or luxury shops, as is happening to some, who thought Bilbao was going to be a Marbella branch, but are watching certain bell shops close. There are also various regulations in Europe, but it is important to close the holidays in most countries, especially in the northern countries, which do not have a climatology, as beneficial as it may be in other climates that invite them to keep the shops more open or for longer in the summer. But, in general, in the main European countries, the holiday closure prevails. The rule does not provide for full liberalisation, we agree on that, but it opens the door to partial liberalisation which some will later call for to be extended. Therefore, we consider this law to be a true Trojan horse for subsequent attempts to extend it and extend its effects or expand its effects, and therefore it is a Trojan horse for liberalization, a gateway to the liberalization of schedules that there is no need to open. Because in addition the criteria for designating a tourist area are so lax that any municipality in this community... And, well, in the law, the list of requirements appears, but, in case they were few, in the end it says, "...when special circumstances come that so...". That is, it is an omni-understood law, omni-understood criteria, which allow any municipality in the community to access this designation. These areas are not going to increase the volume of business, they are going to transfer it. If they are designated, it will not generate a new volume because tourists leave more money, but what it will do is that the people here at those festivals can go to consume those areas; therefore, it will transfer business from the periphery, from the villages, to a few areas in specific places. And it's also going to cause a labor dispute. Because it must be borne in mind that there are already two zones, two capitals of this country, areas of great tourist influx, and no power has been exercised to open on the part of the large areas, which could be benefited, because they are immersed in an internal conflict with their own workers and with the unions, which leads them not only not to use this option, but not to open on the other holidays that they have recognized by law to open. In other words, there is a very strong trade union opposition to this issue, and it would create a new social problem. Fortunately, the trade unions and organised workers have managed so far to stop the opening up of the large areas, in defence of their rights, in defence of conciliation, but here again they would have a new battlefield, which we do not have to put on them this responsibility, but from here we must close this door. It is the defense of traditional trade that can give us a strength point in view of the tourist offer. Differentiation, specialization in a small, close and personality trade is what can give us a plus in front of a tourist who contemplates the same large chain stores anywhere in the world. The trade sector needs dialogue and support, reactivation plans focused on small trade in particular. Its main problem is, however and of course, the decline in purchasing capacity caused by the crisis, unemployment and the fall in the wage mass. In other words, there are some fundamental political problems that will determine whether small trade is going ahead or not. If income continues to be transferred to capital to the detriment of income from labour, it will continue to happen that the people who consume, the basis that maintains trade, will have limited their capacity to spend, and therefore trade will continue either in the downward trend or in the semi-agonic stability at the moment. Trade support initiatives can and should be worked on, the sector should be spoken to, tables should be promoted. There are things that are being done in the right direction at different sites: there are bonuses, training plans, relief plans... Supply needs to be improved, indeed, there are many things to do to improve and defend small trade, but, of course, one of those things is not this law. This law is unnecessary, or rather, or worse, it is harmful, because it creates many problems and does not solve any. We and we can solve these problems today by returning this law to the Government. Of course, there would be work to be done; of course, and as I said earlier, there is an integral socio-economic problem which affects the delicate situation in which trade is found. We must also continue to work on those other aspects, in which workers have fair wages and who can continue to consume as a result. Because there's no schedule problem here. As he said in another intervention on this subject, paraphrased a 15-M sentence, the one that said that "there is a month left at the end of the salary", for here, there are still shops left open when we run out of money to consume in them. So that is where the issue has to be focused. In fact, by returning this law to the Government we would not have solved the problem, but at least we would have taken a step towards it, or at least we would have avoided a new aggression, which in a sector that is as it is, does not, of course, come very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u4	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Corcuera, representative of the Socialist Basque Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u5	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The Basque Socialists tabled this amendment in its entirety, and we request the Government to return the bill for the third amendment of the Commercial Activity Act, because we consider that this bill is based on a whole legislative compendium composed of Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 of 13 July, Royal Decree-Law 8/2014 of 4 July, and Royal Decree-Law 18/2014 of 15 October, which affect trade and tourism matters without respecting the competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in these matters. The Basque Government had to have appealed the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 of 13 July, as it did with the precepts of Decree-Law 8/2014 of 4 July, to the Constitutional Court, mainly for the defence of our competence in the field of trade, and we think that it should wait for the resolution of those resources that have also been brought by other autonomous communities, for the consequences that could arise from them, before proceeding to modify our own autonomous regulations. The account of the influence of the application of these provisions of the Government of Spain in the Basque Country is quite simple. The Royal Decree-Law 20/2012 of 13 July introduced a series of measures aimed at free time for businesses, including the obligation for fourteen cities in Spain to designate areas with a large tourist influx in which the free time and opening of shops are guaranteed. Thus, Bilbao was one of the cities forced to fix these areas within its municipality. The criteria for choosing these cities – the counselor has already commented – were that they are cities with more than 200,000 inhabitants, that have more than 1,000,000 overnight stays of tourists per year, or that they have 400,000 cruise passengers. The rest of the municipalities wishing to do so could also request declared areas of large tourist influx and thus achieve wider business hours. But the fundamental difference is that the cities set by this royal decree of the Government of Spain, whether they wanted their autonomous governments or not, were obliged to dispose of these areas of tourist influx with special regulations. The deadline, once that rule came into force, was a six-month period for reporting which areas had been selected. In addition, the Government of Spain, through Royal Decree-Law 8/2014 of 4 July, extended to ten other cities the obligation to designate these areas of area of great tourist influx and therefore to have other longer hours, business hours and opening days. In this case the lottery was played to Donostia-San Sebastián. In view of this situation, the Basque Government adopted two resolutions: the resolution of 1 September 2014 of the Deputy Councillor for Trade and Tourism, which made public the declaration in the municipality of Bilbao of three areas of great tourist influx for commercial hours, and the second resolution was that of 11 December 2014, which declared a certain area of great tourist influx in the municipality of San Sebastián. In both cases, this measure was expressly mentioned and justified in article 5 of Royal Decree-Law 8/2014, which provided that if, within six months of the publication of these data, the competent autonomous communities had not declared any area of great touristic influx in the municipality in which certain circumstances occur, the whole of the municipality would be declared as such, and the traders would have full freedom to open their establishments throughout the year. The resolutions, in accordance with that 11th additional provision of the Royal Decree-Law 20/2012, established as the temporary scope of the declaration of zone of great tourist influx in July and August 2015 for both cities, both for Bilbao and for San Sebastián. And the counselor said that, well, it was the lesser evil; that the legal modification that was brought here was the lesser evil. And no, Counselor. The lesser evil is the resolutions that the Vice-Counsellor for Trade and Tourism, not this bill, drew. Because this bill is a ratification of all the normative provisions of the Rajoy Government, which seek to extend and extend the hours and opening days, and you know it. The Socialists have already tabled a series of amendments to the Royal Decree-Law 8/2014 of 4 July, because we considered that the measures on business hours proposed there had not been agreed either with the competent authorities responsible for their effective implementation or with the economic sectors concerned. In addition, it implies a loss of competence of the autonomous communities in the field of internal trade, and is clearly contrary to the jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. The latest reform of the Government of Spain, with Law 18/2014 of 15 October, makes clear and absolutely clear the competence of the Basque Government in the field of internal trade, and also makes clear its ability to design the commercial policy that it considers appropriate to the socio-economic reality of Euskadi, as reflected in Article 10.27 of the Statute of Gernika. And that is where, Madam Councillor, we Socialists consider the resources of unconstitutionality to be fundamental, firstly; secondly, to prepare a regulation of Basque trade that is consensual, that is agreed (by the way, a term that has recently been used a lot, that is agreed and agreed) with the main players in the sector, that solves the existing conflictivity, because there is it, and that serves so that the Basque trade can really take advantage of the whole scope of opportunities that the economic situation can pose to it through the most diverse sectors that have economic influence, including tourism, why not. In all the debates that the Basque Socialists have had, both in this House and in the municipalities where the link between trade and tourism has been dealt with, through motions, we have urged and insisted that the regulation carried out by the Basque Government, in the exercise of its powers, be a consensual regulation between the institutions and the social and trade union players in the Basque commercial sector. In the case before us today, it has been more than obvious, after the various demonstrations in the Basque Parliament by the appearances of people belonging to various organizations, entities, associations and trade union organizations, which took place for two days, two long days, which, in addition to not producing trade..., were the conclusions a peaceful matter – that was concluded – there was in the sector itself a rejection of this regulation, a rejection rather than a significant one. Those two days served to establish that the positions of the parties concerned were far removed from one another, and that the regulation proposed today not only achieves a minimum consensus or satisfaction of interests, but also that its implementation does not respond (does not respond, Madam Counselor) to the practical and real needs of associations, federations, trade unions... in short, the commercial sector. Nor are they in the general interest of consumers, because some of their organizations were also given the opportunity, in those two days of appearances, to hear them, and some expressed opposition to the regulation that is intended to be promoted by the Basque Government. The economic memory prepared for the processing of this amendment of law is based on a document called "Impact of the declaration of zones of great tourist influx in the retail trade distribution of the Basque Country", a document that is considered by the sector as an inaccurate, partial and ignorant document of objective data on the general economic flow in Basque Country. The legal modification proposed and defended by its authors in the link between trade and tourism is based on several studies that, instead of validating with objective data this link and the uptake of the increase in tourist spending by commercial activity, what really explains this document is the capture that would occur from the public expenditure of the area of influence in the Basque Country, which is treated as tourist. In short, and in paladin roman, that the studies that endorse the bill that is brought to this House today consider the Basque internal trade, the whole Basque internal trade, as tourist trade. And this fact distorts the derivative consequence of all the data that are then provided. Moreover, these studies do not detail the sectors that would make the collection of expenditure, do not distinguish the commercial format, and start from the erroneous basis of contemplating commercial opening on Sundays and holidays as something new in Euskadi and as something generalized, obviating the fact that establishments of less than 150 square meters can already legally open on Sundays and holidays, a practice that in some cities of Euskadi is being carried out and in others not. And these studies that support this amendment of law do not establish the causes of this disparity of actions, why in some cities they do open shops on Sundays and holidays and in others they do not. Nor do they explain the reasons why those shops that do not open today would do so if this law is applied, when the law applies to businesses of more than 150 square meters (so it is not applicable to those of less than that area). Nor do they explain the consequences of this application of the amendment of the law. Moreover, when for the large areas there is the normative provision that allows the opening of eight holidays in Basquedi, and this normative provision does not apply in all cases, it is again evident that this draft law that is brought here today, amending the Act on Commercial Activity, will not only not regulate an alleged situation (because we actually have our own legislation in Basquedi today), but that its application can increase the conflictivity that exists in the sector, and promote imbalances in the economic flows of municipalities that did not have the status of tourists to which they were considered in accordance with the criteria set out in this draft law. Studies carried out outside the Basque Country (i.e. not suspicious) with regard to retail trade and the consequences of the application of hourly liberalization or regulatory intensity conclude – and this is important – that there is not enough evidence to say that the liberalisation of business hours has the expected effects, neither in increasing turnover, nor in employment, nor in the efficiency of the sector. Thus, for example, if we take the Madrid reference, one year after the entry into force of the total liberalization of the timetables it would bring down the commercial activity similar to those that were suffering the rest of the autonomous communities that had a more restrictive commercial regulation. And it also had greater contractions in employment, when, however, the tourist rate was rising. The Basque Socialists believe that any legislative change must bring about a balance in its application and clear general advantages for the whole sector, in this case for the commercial sector and for the tourism sector throughout the Basque Country. But we have been able to perceive that the advantages of this proposed legal amendment are not at all clear for the whole of the Basque Country, since the application and development of the current legislation is not generating problems or conflicts in the whole of Euskadi, and, instead, the new regulation proposed to us does not count from the agreement or consensus in the commercial sector itself, and there is no provision for pacts or agreements with trade union agents, which already raises at the outset a forecast of problems in the application of this legal regulation. The proposed amendment seeks to strengthen trade through tourism, but its consequences are likely to be the opposite if measures are not introduced to protect and boost small trade, since, when applied to areas over 150 square metres, trade flows would flow into this sector, leaving small trade, both in those areas considered touristic and those not considered so, which would be reduced in their expenditure. Euskadi has exclusive competence in trade management, and trade management and regulation measures should serve to determine the model to be developed throughout the territory. And the Basque Socialists do not want a trade regulation that goes against the sector itself, but rather we propose the transposition of other experiences – which exist in Europe – where trade regulation contemplates and is based on variables such as work and family reconciliation, environmental sustainability or territorial balance. We believe that there is an important management work on the part of the Basque Government to be carried out, with all the actors in the commercial sector, in order to seek these consensuses, these complicitys throughout the Basque country, in that sector; in order to achieve a prosperous future in the commercial sector, which, in short, I am sure is what we are all looking for and seeking. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen and heard what the parties have been exposing us, not only during the two days of attendance, but on other occasions, we understand that the legislative sphere must be the last step up to ratify an agreement and the agreed positions, common positions. But the legislative sphere cannot be the element that generates disagreements and conflicts. And this seems to be announced with this amendment of the law. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Then we'll go on to the opposite round. Who wants to be a part of it? Mr. Oygal, representative of the Popula Party, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u7	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, to explain briefly our position against the amendments as a whole. The challenge in the commercial sector, the challenge of the last 20 years in the field of trade, commercial activity and trade distribution, has, in our view – and we have had many debates in this House over the past 20 years in this regard – been modernisation, especially modernisation of retail trade; to help it, to accompany it in this modernization, in this necessary process of adapting to the new realities. And from the People's Party, of course – and that's what the hemerotheque is for – we have always emphasized the need to protect small trade, traditional retail trade, against the big one. To defend also and seek the balance in the defence of freedom, seeking that balance between what has to be ours..., to preserve that fabric proper to our Community. I remember that in 1996 the data provided thirteen shops per thousand inhabitants. France was seven; we were thirteen. A commercial fabric that we understood we had to protect. And moving forward in freedom necessarily required seeking that balance between retail trade and new forms of distribution. At that time the debate was in the big distributors, in the big malls, in the arrival in our community of the big malls, in the big chains. At the time, the large areas; then it was the franchises, the franchise chains, the specialization of the franchises themselves and the brands in each of the sectors; later the medium areas that reached the center of the cities (it was no longer the problem of the large areas that displaced the trade, but the medium ones, that were introduced in the center of the cities), and then the internet sale and other forms of business that today, in fact, affect what is the distribution and the commercial activity in our community and throughout the world. Various amendments to the Business Act have, among other things, allowed for increased decision-making capacity. And there we have always defended expanding the decision-making capacity of traders, small businesses, their schedules, the openings in holidays, etc. Give them the ability to decide freely. Not to decide under pressure from the unions, no. To decide freely. In the Basque Country during all these years, due to this pressure, the big ones never opened. They've never opened, and they've had a chance to do it! And now I am shocked by the position of the Socialist Party, because my first intervention in this House, in 1996 (it has already been a few years), was to defend against the Socialist Party the protection in relation to the timetables that the little ones deserved. At that time she was a socialist councilwoman who defended total freedom of time. She was a socialist councilwoman who defended that total freedom of time! Twenty years ago! Well, there's been a tacit pact on this. And, of course, it has been real decrees, that of promoting competitiveness (the one of 2014) and that of urgent measures for growth, competitiveness and efficiency, those that determine these criteria so that the municipalities, or some specific area of certain municipalities can be considered area of great tourist influx, and therefore thus facilitate in this way the business capacity to any company, small, medium or large, facilitate their business capacity; enable a regulation that expands that decision-making capacity that he spoke of in relation to schedules and openings, according to the opportunities that each one finds in his business and that he considers appropriate. That regulation should, in our view, respond to the growing demand of tourists. And this comes – we are convinced – to give impetus to the tourism sector itself, but also to the commercial sector. And we have always defended that a living city, an open city, a city with its open trade, is a much more attractive city. It's not a problem, in our opinion. It's clearly an opportunity. The commercial sector, especially the retailer, can take advantage of the synergies offered by the tourism sector. It is, in fact, a great opportunity that we believe can be taken advantage of in a positive way. With regard to the amendments, and briefly, the PSOE amendments. The Socialist Party today gave us a speech here in which it reveals that it does not know where the air is. He doesn't know where he gets the air for trade. He gives bandages, has been giving bandages in trade for twenty years. He has never had a really constructive discourse on trade, he has no idea what trade needs. Socialists today again show that they do not know where they are given the air in terms of commercial activity, but neither do they know where they are given the air in terms of defining what are the competences, the competences of the State and of the autonomous communities. You come here to make Bildu's speech, when you know perfectly well that the state also has powers in terms of market unity, of course it does. You subordinate the processing of the law to an assumed, hypothetical remedy that the Basque Government will not bring in relation to these articles. Because it has brought an appeal, but it does not affect the part that is being debated here today. It doesn't matter. And the Government is not going to resort to that part, which governs those areas of great tourist influx. He's not gonna do it. Then this is smoke. And, of course, the Socialist Members... Listen, with fifty deputies in Madrid, and you have one hundred and a half, you could have resorted to this law, and you have not, because your group, the Socialist Group in Madrid, you know, is fully aware that this law is fully constitutional and does not invade competences, because the Constitution (Article 149.1.13) states that economic activity planning is the exclusive competence of the State. It is a question, Socialists, also of freedom, not only of criteria of opportunity and competitiveness. It is also a question of freedom, and surely ideology. Bildu draws us a black panorama of the sector, with an absolutely ancient speech. The trade debates of twenty or fifteen years ago are reproduced here. Look, things have changed a lot. Look, at the time there were traders who were saying, "Hey, I have a clothing store... Couldn't we have here like the pharmacies, or like the bars, which limit me, that there can't be any clothing store within a hundred meters of my store?". Hey, then it was discovered that the greater concentration there is of clothes shops on some streets, or furniture shops on other streets, or decoration on others, is good. And it was suddenly discovered that there were malls that served as engines for small trade and retail trade. Look, the discussions on trade distribution have changed a lot. You cannot support all your opposition to this approach in a possible capacity to extend opening hours, because, listen, the jobs you say have been lost, or the thousands of shops, of establishments you say have closed, have been closed in a situation of total time limitation. No one was opening on Sunday here, and shops have been closed. The Socialist Party has been told: in Madrid, where they did open, they have fallen in the same proportion, not in a higher proportion. Then it doesn't alter freedom, it doesn't alter the freedom of schedules. It gives opportunity to traders, to those who, depending on their situation, consider that they have a better opportunity to move their business forward. He says he's transferring business from one area to another. Hey, I've been a merchant for so many years. Listen, many peoples, many citizens of the Deba basin – I finish already – were part of my clientele in Vitoria. Many shops in Vitoria have been benefiting from the purchases of many customers who live in villages in the Deba basin. But, hey, they did it on Saturday. They don't need us to open their shops on Sundays! Saturdays are coming. Listen, if you open the shops on Sundays, or if you expand the schedule capacity, we are asking you to get business from those 600,000 tourists who are demanding it, 600,000 tourists in our community who can strengthen small business in Bilbao, San Sebastián or in those municipalities where traders consider it appropriate. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u8	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Mr. Uribe Housevary, the Eubertarian, representing the team. Your word. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Yes, good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Chief of Tapia, Congressman, good morning. As you will suppose, our team will not support these full-range corrections. To reason with that, I want to remind myself of certain reasons that the chief physician has been giving him a few minutes ago. The origin of all this is here, that in this discussion there has been mentioned a decree from the 2012, and another decree from the 2014. The object of these decrees was to encourage competitiveness and influence in his application or his articles, of course, in the sector of trade and in his hours. Well, in front of all that, I did two things: On the one hand, seeing and examining, that these two decrees had entered their jurisdictions, he proposed a resource in the presence of the Constitutional Court, so that the EukMalk had taken an initiative in defending his jurisdictions. The appeal is there in the Constitutional Court, and we'll see what its course is. And then, on the other hand, when these two decrees were applied, he considered three principal principles: On the one hand, to adapt to the coastal trades and tourisms, the application of these decrees is not the same, if we compare the nature of our trades and the forms of our tourisms with the sectors of Madrid, Barcelona, and Valentian. The second principle, the consistent idea. And the consensus before introducing the bill of law, and also in applying the law to it. What surprises me is, I don't know here, there have been a lot of theoretical and proceptive considerations, both from Corcu and Casanova, but no one has ever mentioned how it can be applied to this law. You've put that aside and I don't know why-perhaps by a political intention. And the third idea, tourism. Tourism, as Mr. Oyre generous has said, is an additional possibility to offer to the trade sector. Mr. Casanova, in your full correction and even here... Madame Corcuera, in her full correction, you say that this bill of law seems to be made to promote touristism. The focus is entirely incorrect, quite incorrect: this is not to promote tourism, but to seize the trade sector for tourism. You're making a total mistake. So these three ideas were the foundation of this law project. And I would like to remark in the sphere of the consensus, that before the project of the law has been introduced into this Chamber, there have been consultations and conversations (the table of eternity, the table of commerce), and in this sense there is a consistent and extensive agreement. There is not an opinion of a mouth, of course we know; But you, Mrs. Corcuera, take the part in everything. It says, "Some, the whole sector..." He's mixing me up, "Some, the whole sector..." And, of course, if your studies – which is also a part study – resemble that study that you defended about the rentals of the shops, then the truth is that rigor I think shines for your absence. Mr. Casanova, in your full correction... Well, here, here, you've put in some maths, but at least you're writing, we're at the door of total free hours. Here, well, you've brought in a quote. No, it's not true. That's not true. And it's a witness to the content of the law project. It does not set, even from a distance, the liberty of an entire hour. And again... And besides, you gave a press conference with the Signora Riverbarga here, in the parliament, and again emphasized the idea of Turism, which is entirely wrong. With difficulty in the sector of commerce, it is obvious that the difficulty is passing, and in this sense the crisis in which we pass or suffer has been thoroughly affected. That's what we agree with. But I repeat, this is not to encourage tourism, not to promote the trade sector to take advantage of tourism. Another chance is afforded expressly, and just in order to smooth this serious situation. The tourism is rising, it's the market that goes up, it's the school, it's obvious. And why, free enough, can't the businessman take advantage of this situation to smooth his serious economic situation? That's what's at stake and that's the perspective. In relation to the Socialist Party, then, yes, the champions now of self-government. But who was in the 2012 government, Mrs. Corcuera? Decree 20/2012, of the month of July... Who was in the government in July 2012? Again, again, they demand from others what you do not do. Why didn't you resort to it? This government arrived in January 2013 (it came into operation), and this decree of 2012, trying to show that they are champions of self-government defense, was approved in July 2012, when you were in government, and did not resort to it. And what I said before in Basque: they are surprisingly obviating the practical application of all these provisions contained in the bill. I don't know why they're obviating it! The mechanism is quite clear; it takes into account the municipalities and the commercial sector. When declaring an area, within a certain period of time and in a certain area of the city or municipality in question, the initiative not part of the Basque Government does not impose it on the Basque Government: part of the municipality, which in plenary session, by majority, must request the Basque Government to declare a zone of great tourist influx for certain areas and for certain times of the year. But not only that, but it must do so after listening to the commercial sector. Isn't that consensus? Why have you failed to explain this whole mechanism of implementation, which precisely affects consensus, to take account of the commercial sector, to take account of the municipalities? I say one thing to you: if any municipality, taking advantage of the application of this amendment of law, asks the Basque Government to declare an area of great tourist influx, we can be very calm that it is strongly supported and strongly grounded. These are not unilateral measures: this bill and the will of the Basque Government is to have the municipalities and the commercial sector. It has been done, as I said before, before this bill is dealt with, in prescriptive consultations. And I insist you can't take the part in everything, Mrs. Corcuera. You have stated here that the commercial sector... No, no! The commercial sector does not: some of the commercial sector. And he didn't tell me about Eudel's opinion, which I think is important. Well, for all that we are going to reject, of course, these two amendments to the whole of this bill. We hope that they will indeed be rejected, and from there we will have, in the presentation, an opportunity to do what you have not done, moving away from theoretical or forward-looking approaches, Mr Casanova, which may be fine (hausnarketa egin beharra dago, Bai), but to look a little at the concrete content of the bill, which will show that many of the criticisms or reservations that I believe are very dissipated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u9	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Passing on the turn of the answers, Mr. Casanova has the word that represents the EH Collect Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u10	We'll have to do it very fast, because we have but a short time, but, well, I'll start with a proposition and maybe some of the members of this Chamber are very happy. We know that this government has a certain legislative impasse, that it is struggling to get laws forward, that there is still an important bag of laws that have not been resolved... I am going to make a proposal to speed up the pace in this Parliament: we are going to work on Sundays. Do we allow Sundays to come here to discuss all these kinds of issues? No, right? We wouldn't like it. Well, merchants don't like to have to go up the blind on a Sunday either. They don't like it because they have life, because they have family and because they would like to spend their leisure time with their family. Because here some talk a lot about family and family defense, but I don't know which family model they defend, if what they want is for one of the parents to be in the shop working and the other to go to Finland, if that's where they have a job offer. To protect the family, to protect conciliation, to protect the freedom of every person to live as he pleases, the existence of a leisure time must also be respected. And we believe that at the present day the merchants, having liberty, have their liberty, and do not profit because they do not profit them. They've told us over and over, they're not stupid, if they're going to make a financial break on Sundays, they'd take advantage of that, but they don't need it. So what's the problem? It may be proper for others to open it, even though they may lose it that day. Some of the trading world have margins to consume, others not, because they are the limit of survival. And that's the problem. The little ones can't take any more loss. The great are likely to consume the loss of these losses, if, by the sum of these losses, they send the competition to ruin and to close it. That's the problem. And sometimes it is said that with this regulation we advance to possible more aggressive laws that can come from Madrid; that it is better to regulate it now, because then they can come with another imposition... It doesn't matter what we're doing here, if you're already watching! It doesn't matter what rules we have here; it doesn't matter what the decrees, the laws, the Statute of Autonomy..., it doesn't matter. When Madrid comes with the imposition, Madrid will come with the imposition, and then will decide the arbitrator they have appointed, which is the Constitutional Court. That is, today, the legal framework that we have in this country, a paper shield. Because when Madrid comes with the imposition there is no other remedy than to take it or obey it, or to say, "Well, here we stand and start playing a new game." But I don't see the PNV in that thesis exactly. Some say, "No, this is to take advantage of tourists," and others have just told us the opposite: "No, it's not for more tourists to come. It is to take advantage of those who come and spend here." Well, the two arguments have been put on the table, but neither is valid. No more tourists coming, no more spending, because the volume of tourists coming here... Which, by the way, we're talking about one of the seven days of the week, we're talking about Sundays. They have six days to spend, and, as I said before, that expenditure demand they can make is perfectly satisfied with current schedules. We bet on a model of tourism that comes, that enriches, that brings money, that brings culture, that we bring it too. Not a tourism that forces us to change all habits, to change the whole society, to change our whole model to become an exclusively dependent society, that even our schedules and our rhythms of life have to adapt. It is true that an effort must always be made, but there is no reason to renounce our right to rest, leisure and family reconciliation by tourism. It's not necessary, and it also doesn't make any sense, because it doesn't produce any profitability. Mr. Luke, you said we didn't mention the mechanism in the text, the procedure in which the procedure is established, and you say it's a guarantee that this is not going to be done lightly. Yes, we have not even mentioned the mechanism of the senses because they appear in the text, because we have all read them, and have discussed them much. But there, it's true, there's a procedure. But in the first place, criteria are very flexible, and it is a starting-point that almost every township performs the conditions which are established there. And the second, in truth, is the standard of criteria in this procedure, and certain conditions are placed. But there are certain conditions when necessary, because it is better not to open that door. Why should it be difficult to avoid, if we agree that the chief opinion of the sector is not to be opened, that it is not necessary, that it is not profitable and prejudicial to the lives and associations of the people? Not everyone here has freedom in front of this. Small traders don't sometimes have freedom to open. On the one hand, because they are not profitable to them: opening has a cost (human cost and economic cost). Great ones, they can see the opportunity, if they overcome the sinister obstacle they have of their own happiness, but they would have a chance. To some businesses that are on the edge of survival this could give a push into the abyss.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u11	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Basque Socialists represent the group. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u12	Yes, thank you, President. Well, today we have tabled a full amendment to return this bill amending the Business Act because we believe that a sectoral law should not be introduced against most agents in this sector. Against the majority, Mr Uribe-Etxebarria; that, by the way, I believe I have the right and freedom to comment on what I think: the total, the part or whatever you want. Therefore, a sectoral law should not be proposed, in our view, against most of the actors in the sector, who are the ones who have manifested themselves for two days in this House in the most diverse appearances. We understand that the unconstitutionality resources raised by the Autonomous Communities have not been resolved under the Royal Decree of 2012, also under the Royal Decree-Law of 2014 and Law 18/2014; that, under the umbrella of the most diverse measures for the most diverse sectors, and in the name of growth, competitiveness and efficiency, they impose on the trade sector the determination of areas of great touristic influx, impose their scope, impose their temporality, and void the capacity of our autonomous community for the management and regulation of commercial activity. And yes, Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, defenders of the Basque socialists' self-government, would miss more! We also understand that this bill needs to be reinstated because there are no solvent indicators, sufficient indicators, in the studies that have been carried out on this subject of the liberalization of schedules and openings, which confirm the direct relationship between deregulation and the increase in the number of sales, neither in employment nor in the efficiency of the sector. All studies, or most studies, explain that the regulation versus the liberalisation of business hours manifests its greater effects on the commercial structure, on the number of outlets and the type of formats, rather than on the economic activity, employment and efficiency of the sector, which are the terms that support these real decree-laws drawn by Mr Rajoy's Government. In the programme of the Basque Government for this parliamentary term, objective 5, in relation to trade, proposes the updating of the regulatory framework for trade, and proposes the following initiative: "Promote initiatives with the participation of the different actors of the Basque commercial sector, in order to improve the current rules of trade in defence of the interests of small trade". And you know that if participation is more than listening, you know that feeling heard, you know that this law amendment that you are proposing today does not meet this objective 5 that is being proposed and proposed in the Basque government's government program." Therefore, I would recommend prudence. And yes, Mr. Oyarzabal, prudence. Because my spokesman was saying, "Well, a little diplomacy," but you've been very unsettling. Very unscrupulous, and you know it. When you talk about why we haven't appealed... What do you mean, the socialists haven't resorted to it? In autonomous communities? Of course we have resorted to the socialists! Because precisely those royal decrees-law what they do is empty autonomous powers. Empty autonomous skills. Be strict and read the royal decrees-law. Moreover, Mr Oyarzabal, if you look at any sessional diary of the Congress of Deputies you will be able to see how the Socialist Group has proposed and proposed amendments to Articles 4, 5, 6 and 7 and Annex 1 of Royal Decree 8/2014 of 4 July. That's why I'm asking for rigor. That we don't know where it gives us the air you can keep in your wallet, because the socialists know very well what our approach to small trade is. And, in another matter, you make us bring to the Constitutional Court so many resources that, of course, one more equal to you is going to happen to you, or does not take it into account, but take into account the unconstitutionality resources raised by various autonomous communities governed by socialists. And, Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria, why didn't you appeal at the time? You know that there is a process to be able to appeal, to be able to reach the Constitutional Court, and you know when were the autonomic elections in Euskadi. Therefore, I would urge caution, return this bill to the government, and take advantage of the juncture to manage the search for consensus and agreements with all actors in the sector, finding the fit of the variables, such as work and family reconciliation and environmental sustainability, as is the case in other European countries, in these regulatory pacts. Because that is how we will get this legislative role that we are supposed to do here today, which is for us to play in this House, to be really a useful role and tool, and not an element that, when applied, leads to disagreement and conflict. And most of the sector is going to be caused by misrepresentation and conflict. Most of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Euscala Popular's representative. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u14	Thank you very much, President. Mrs. Corcuera, look, you've been saying for several years that you want to change the Constitution. They haven't told us exactly what they want to change. It is very good that we are learning that the same thing that they want to change is this type of thing: to give more skills, to break the unity of the market... Well, listen, you have to explain yourself in relation to what you want to change from the Constitution. Because, look, "in correspondence with the budget of a single national economic order and the consequent existence of a single national market" (judgment of the Constitutional Court, Ms Corcuera), "State jurisdiction extends to a wide range of matters, the intervention of the State being justified provided that for the necessary coherence of general economic policy it is necessary to make unitary decisions" (judgment of the Constitutional Court, Ms Corcuera). "State competence in the management of the economy corresponds to the principle of economic unity and covers the definition of the lines of action aimed at achieving the objectives of the overall or sectoral policy laid down by the Constitution itself, as well as the adoption of the precise measures to ensure the realization of those objectives" (also taken from judgments of the Constitutional Court). Let's see, the Constitutional Court speaks that, in fact, "even if there are powers over an economic subsector in an autonomous community", as we are talking about in relation to trade, an autonomous community that has assumed as exclusive in its Statute, in the case of internal trade (constitutional court ruling), "does not exclude state competence to establish the bases and coordination of that subsector". Don't rule it out, Mrs. Corcuera. The Constitution reserves that capacity to the State, and does not exclude that competence to establish bases for coordination of that subsector, and that the autonomous exercise of that exclusive competence may be perfectly conditioned by State measures. And, well, that will have to be resolved again by the Constitutional Court, but, well, listen, you're the ones who will now have to explain exactly where you want to take us, where, what you want to change from the Constitution... But, look, we understand that it is perfectly compatible to respect the competences of the Autonomous Community, of the Autonomous Communities, to seek also coherence of what must also be economic freedom in our country, and to guarantee also the market unity of our country. It's something we defend. You say there are no indicators to ratify whether this is good or not. Yes, there are. Yes, there are. And what has generated the freedom and decision-making capacity of traders in terms of timetables, or opening up to holidays, according to all studies, is greater employment, and, of course, more opportunities for the development of new forms of trade, including small trade. But we are also faced with a false debate. We are dealing with a false debate. And you have to explain to people – we should do it today – that today there is freedom of timetables. We're not here debating whether freedom is or is not. Today there is freedom of timetables in our community. Any trade that has up to 150 meters of sales surface can open when you feel like it. Today there is freedom of hours, and open those who consider it opportune. Those who consider it opportune. Hey, those who don't have any need to open, don't open. Those who... of course, those who want to rest on Sundays don't open. Those whose business depends on working a few more hours, work a few more hours. Hey, do hoteliers have no family life? Have we forbidden hoteliers to have family life? In those businesses that open, do their employees work more than forty hours, or more than thirty-five, of the trade agreement? No, no, It generates employment. New jobs are being created, Mr Casanova. New jobs are generated in trade, as they are generated in hospitality. New jobs are being created, Mr Casanova. But in any case, we're talking about freedom. We don't talk about obligation to open. We're talking about decision-making capacity for small traders. Decision-making capacity to make your own decisions, actually, in relation to business opportunities. Do we want to take advantage of business opportunities, yes or no? To those tourists that you say, Mr. Casanova, that you want tourists to come here to generate wealth and business, what do we offer them?, the three-euro pintxos and the six-euro coca-colas, which are offered in some places in our community? Hey, are the other traders not entitled to take advantage of those tourism synergies? Don't many traders have the right, depending on where their shops are located, to take advantage of the business opportunities that these 600,000 tourists can offer them? Don't you have a right to that? Do we have to force them to close? Or do we have to force Basques who have no other chance, or who want to use their moments of leisure – I finish already, Madam President – to buy, to do so, as we see them doing to Basques, in Cantabria, in Logroño or in other cities around us? Or are we also going to ban them from leaving our community on Sunday, in case they spend? Hey, we're talking about freedom. Freedom, not obligations. Freedom. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u15	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. To conclude, the Representative of the Euncierous People, is the Word of the House of Uribe. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you. Yes, I agree with Mr. Oylord, Mr. Casanova. It's a concept of freedom, a concept of freedom. Because no one is forced to open it. And it is true: for example, this sector has become adapted to the life of people. And as for us, I don't know, but if it was more and more effective, we'd be here on Sunday. No doubt about it, Mr. Casanova. So again, it's a release business, and the sector, even the new business and the new markets have to be adjusted. Of course, with certain boundaries and conditions. It tickles our own self-portrait... Well, maybe we could agree. But, as you know, Mr. Casanova, we have in this chamber a special committee of auto-organization, and perhaps all these things must be arranged, and not elsewhere, although this is the Chamber, and we need a full meeting and a great respect for it, of course. I deny you the greatest, Mrs. Corcuera. I don't think most of the sector is against it. I don't think he's against it. And, in any case, I am also not, please, on calendar matters to note that you did not resort to the 2012 decree, which you are now asking this Government to do so. That's an incoherence, and at least what I could do was recognize it. I conclude, both for Mr Casanova and for Mrs Corcuera, by stressing once again that it is the intention of this Government to adapt this bill to the situation of our tourism and commercial sectors, in addition to having the maximum consensus when it comes to implementing it. And it seems essential to me, it seems essential to take care of the mechanism. Because the mechanism I explained in my first intervention, I will not repeat it, but I do want to insist that it takes into account the municipalities and takes into account the commercial sector of each municipality in question. It therefore offers sufficient guarantees of consensus and that, if there is a request to the Basque Government to declare in a certain area of city or municipality, for a certain period, that it is a zone of great tourist influx and, therefore, the shops can open, I sincerely believe that it goes with all guarantees, with all the strength of consensus, and is more than reasonable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u16	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. End of discussion, we'll go to the vote. You're in good shape, please, all of you, and we'll vote to see if the bill's back or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 37; the counters, 37; whites, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u17	Because it's the market, we'll vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 37; the counters, 37; whites, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u18	So, as the baggage continues, we'll leave it for the next round meeting. And follow the vote. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u19	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Lehendakari, members of the government. Finally, I believe that the groups who spoke during the debate on this matter have perfectly explained what was being discussed and what was being voted on, and I believe that they have given their views on the issue, and I also believe that all of them have said interesting things that we can share. Involuntarily, we find ourselves engaged in placing ourselves in the centre, although it is not usually our intention, at least initially. In this case, I say that we see consistent arguments in both groups and in other groups, and that is why we abstain. I will try to give the reasons why I have finally abstained. There is a state regulation in force that deals with this issue of the liberalisation of business hours and on it we are already positioned in the Congress of Deputies, with the corresponding amendments. If a Basque law is not adopted, and in particular the bill submitted by the Basque Government, the state law, which is the one that today obliges us, would apply directly. On the other hand, this project does not bring too much news either. In addition to the full amendments tabled by EH Bildu and the Socialist Group, we finally share and acknowledge some of the arguments put forward (the lack of sufficient consensus, the rejection of the law of the main trade associations and trade unions, or at least a significant part, the labour conflicts that could arise or the need to protect small trade), but other arguments we reject. In particular, the references to the violation of self-government, to the imposition of Madrid, or the alleged exaggerated against the evils of liberalism or the freedom of timetables, especially by the EH Bildu group. Furthermore, we believe that simply returning this project to the Basque Government would not solve anything that both groups have pointed out. If you see the changes to the legal text so clearly, perhaps it is best to work on it in the paper. In the specific case of the Socialist Group, it proposes and demands consensus with the sector, and I believe that this consensus can be sought and reached in the paper, and that is what we intend to do in that paper. The most reasonable thing, therefore, in our view, is that the paper should be launched as soon as possible, and that we should be able to draw up the best possible legal text and have the broadest consensus, including commercial actors. The text put forward by the Basque Government also does not share it in its entirety as drafted. It's better. Although we had a number of partial amendments drafted, we finally decided not to register them, pending events. In any case, this will not be an obstacle for UPyD to work on the paper and put forward its proposals and demands. In conclusion, I see that it is better to continue the process and to be able to draw up in the paper the best possible law, taking into account, of course, the margins we have, the demands of the commercial sector and the interests of all the parties concerned. Having listened today to the arguments of the different groups, it seems to me that there could be enough room for consensus and agreement, and at least that is what we will try to do. Returning the bill to the Basque Government does not seem to solve anything; another thing, of course, is that we are finally going to give the okey to the text that comes out of the paper, depending on what its final content is. Our abstention, therefore, allows us to follow the parliamentary debate, to follow the parliamentary process. However, this does not guarantee that the law will go ahead, at least as far as we are concerned. Or much improvement in the paper, or we'll vote against the law. In any case, as I say – and other groups have also said – I think there is enough room for consensus and agreement. For our part, therefore, let's try. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u20	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Second point on the subject list: "The bill of law of the law of the law of the law of law, of socialization, and of remuneration of the revenues on December 23d December 18/2008. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you're being divided, and that's why we're going to go straight to the discussion. On the next round, who wants to participate... ? Mrs Garrido, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments, members of the legislature. First, we'd like to welcome the inferior help to the platform. First of all, we want to welcome from the People's Group the Fairer Aids platform, and also to express our appreciation for the effort made in collecting more than 40,000 signatures. In the same way, we want to thank the thousands of citizens without ideologies, from different ideologies, citizens without labels, who are present today in the consideration of this initiative. Today, people in this debate, all ideology, we want to thank. Today it is a matter of opening a debate on an issue that is troubling many people and is reflected in this initiative. People who want to change things, and let us change things those who are their legitimate political representatives. People we can't ignore and we have a duty to listen to. Today we cannot fail to hear 40,000 citizens trying to improve and strengthen the protection system in Euskadi, 40,000 people who want a more equitable, fairer, more supportive and more sustainable protection system to be guaranteed. Forty thousand people want our system to be more equal, more fair, more solid, more effective. The protection system in Euskadi is one of the most advanced, not only in Spain, but in the rest of Europe. Euskadi's expenditure represents 40% of Spain's total expenditure on minimum income for inclusion. It is one of the systems most supportive of people in need, and one that makes one of the largest economic disbursements, if we compare it with the systems of other autonomous communities: half of the budget – as this government, the lehendakari, the councillors well know –, half of the budget of the Department of Employment and Social Policy is intended to finance social benefits. Solidarity and social justice are therefore principles that constitute our mark of identity. Solidarity and social justice are the symbol of our identity. And it is precisely in times of economic crisis, of greatest economic difficulty, when the number of collectors increases, and therefore it is necessary to increase public resources to meet existing needs. The social protection system is essential, it is indispensable as a tool for social cohesion and the fight against poverty. It is now, he said, an economic crisis when the welfare state must be guaranteed more than ever, and public administrations must therefore ensure that resources are spent efficiently, correctly, and actually reach the people who need them. The support system is indispensable in order to encourage social cohesion and to face poverty. We share with thousands of citizens the concern to avoid abusive situations, to safeguard the rights of the weakest, and to correct the shortcomings identified in order to improve the functioning of the system. The existence of fraud, abuse, is the greatest sign of insolidity. It is therefore the duty of the public authorities to arbitrate the necessary mechanisms to tackle them. Strengthening solidarity mechanisms means extending protection to those who are in a situation of greatest vulnerability and who cannot enter the system because, for example, they have a heritage of little value apart from the usual housing. A society with a true solidarity vocation must make an effort to continue to help the elderly, those on whom the burden of the economic crisis rests, supporting many of their families. Solidarity also means giving an opportunity, making it possible to find a job for people who receive social assistance, so that they are not chronicled in the system. It's soliability to give people a chance to find a job to get out of the system by helping them get help. And in principle, following the statements made by members of the Government and the Lehendakari himself, there would be no problem in accepting the start of this debate, the debate on this matter, starting with the consideration of this proposal. That yes, it would be useful to put on the table that you started by refusing to change the system, to then accept to improve it, perhaps in view of the evidence of the data that you yourself wanted to hide: the irregular people who were collecting the income guarantee income, the cases of fraud that you were going to know, the number of undue charges, the situations of people who stayed out of the system and who were really unfair... Mr Aburto, the former Employment and Social Affairs Adviser, said that it was necessary (at first not, then already said), to improve the Basque system of social benefits, showing his willingness to reflect on the GIR and improve the system. You, Mr Toña, who took over Mr Aburto, also recently said that the GIR should be updated. And the Lehendakari has also told us that there is a need to increase control over social aid, and that more control over social aid is more social justice. The starting point is the following issues, which obviously, as we are taking into consideration, in the opening of a debate, are not definitive: the inclusion of legal and effective residence requirements; changing requirements for access to GIR related to registration and previous working life; making the perception of income security income incompatible with the commission of crimes against society, precisely that society that is supporting and protecting them; reviewing the registration requirements; when someone is in possession of a low-value asset, apart from the usual housing, and is automatically excluded from the system; expanding coverage to older people in cases of energy poverty, thereby arguing a supplement to the benefits they already receive. We cannot share the unfavorable view of the Government, nor the arguments used, the pernicious arguments used, by calling in some way arguments. We do not agree with the opinions which this government has given us, and the want of arguments which it has made use of (if we call them argument). It is not a question, Mr Lehendakari, of tightening the criteria of access, leaving out the system of protection to the weakest link, as is said in that unfavourable criterion. It seems that you still don't understand anything, or you want to continue without understanding anything. Precisely, Mr Lehendakari, it is the opposite. You want to listen deaf to the voice of thousands of citizens who want a more just system, which protects the rights of the weakest and corrects the injustices that prevent solidarity from being strengthened in times of particular difficulty. The question is not to harden the conditions of entering the system, leaving the weakest out of the system: It's the opposite. By the way, citizens who were heard at other times when they put forward similar initiatives. Yes, Mr. Lehendakari. You were not at that time as a lehendakari, but I would like to remind you that you were as a parliamentarian in this House when the initiative for a social rights charter was taken into consideration, once in the year 96, again in the year 98. Also when some other similar initiative was taken into consideration, with regard to strengthening social rights. You have therefore taken into consideration similar initiatives put forward in this House by citizens. Because it has been through the citizens, those you want to silence today, as many of the changes made in social content rules have been driven. The people you want to keep quiet today have been at other times the ones you want to put into society. Citizens who were possibly and are more at the forefront of the changes that need to be made to adapt regulation to changing realities and new times. You who speak so much of dialogue, of consensus, of citizen participation, that there is no day that you do not speak – and I mean the rest of the parliamentary arc – that some take it on all the pages of their electoral programme, that some put them as an exemplary section in all the laws that are brought to this Parliament (as was the law of public administration, although they had to withdraw it for lack of support), all those who are filled with so much dialogue, of citizen participation, cannot prevent today with their vote that citizens are heard. You cannot stop it, ladies and gentlemen, because it would not be coherent, it would be a great contradiction. Preach the example, ladies and gentlemen. In this Parliament, as I have just pointed out, initiatives of similar content have always been taken into consideration; otherwise there is no precedent. You, who always speak of conversation, cannot leave your vows to the people today. Today you are going to fall into a clear exercise of cynicism and political hypocrisy. You, who are at the same time pushing for changes in existing legislation in relation to popular legislative initiative, to reduce the requirements of signatures that need to be met. They want to reduce... Yes, Mrs Gorospe, you would not laugh, because I do not think it is a matter of laughing, simply out of respect for the thousands of citizens who have signed, many who support your acronyms. It is a clear exercise of political hypocrisy that you are proposing to change the requirements for signatures (yes, Mrs Gorospe, from 30,000 to 10,000 signatures), as you say precisely in this opinion that there is already, of the modification of the popular legislative initiative, to bring the institutions closer to the citizens and to encourage or facilitate their participation in all matters concerning them. It's just that you guys want to do that! You want to make it easier for citizens and social groups to take part in the legislative function, making it easier and less restrictive for initiatives to be proposed. How can you marry all that, what you want to do, with the attitude that you are going to have today before this popular legislative initiative and before thousands of Basque citizens? You, too, in fracking, in fracking, spoke of the recognition of the value of the popular initiative presented and of the broad social debate that exists in relation to the subject matter of the proposed law, and that you therefore considered it appropriate that this debate should take place in Parliament, the body par excellence responsible for the exercise of the legislative initiative. But how can you say this in the Government's view a few months ago, and today, in the face of a debate with some thousands of signatures, 40,000 signatures of the Basque citizens, with a question of topicality, with a broad debate, with a question that you have recognised as having to change (in principle you refused, but then, in the light of the evidence, you had to close down), how is today's defachability to give a door to thousands of citizens when you raise a question that concerns the citizens, as was, by the way, the issue of fracking? Ladies and gentlemen, today you cannot ignore the voice of 40,000 citizens who simply want to improve the system of social aid, where there are unfair situations and where there are obvious shortcomings. Citizens who don't understand risferrafe, political disputes, political stubbornness, and just want to change the things they see that don't work. Today we have the opportunity to pave the way for the reform of the protection system, because, ladies and gentlemen, today, as many other times, as many times we have said that we do in initiatives of social content, in other initiatives in this House, we only take this proposal into consideration. Then the debate will come, then the proposals of the groups will come through the amendments, and then, finally, after the debate, a text will come that will be submitted for approval by this House. You, refusing to start the debate today, are giving a clear slap to so many citizens who are simply calling for greater social justice. And, ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely believe, and we believe from the Group of the European People's Party, that it is a matter of justice and our duty to listen to the citizens and to remedy what does not work, because that is why we have been elected. We can't turn back what a lot of citizens have said. Because to legitimise the system is precisely to change what is likely to improve, and moreover, when so many citizens are endorsed, no excuse can be made, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u22	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. If you turn to the other side, who wants to participate? Nobody else? Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President. Firstly, I would like to say that I would have liked the promoters of this initiative and the members of the Fairer Aids platform to have had the opportunity to defend their initiative from this forum, which we have been defending since 2009; that is, that all the ILPs can be defended by those who have proposed such initiatives from the forum itself, that they have the capacity to explain and discuss their proposals with the rest of the groups. This is something that is likely to change in the near future. There is a proposed UPyD law amending the ILP law, which, in addition to proposing a reduction in signatures necessary to register a popular legislative initiative, also proposes that proponents not only be able to participate in the presentation of the initiative in the House itself, but also that they can even have a voice in the relevant committee and even in the presentation. We have not yet taken sufficient steps, but we are on it. Mrs Garrido, Members of the Fairer Aids, citizens who have signed this initiative, I will try to explain to you why UPyD is going to vote against the consideration of this initiative. First of all, I must point out that we share the arguments of the Basque Government as set out in its unfavourable approach. There are apparently no members of the Basque Nationalist Party who would like to explain the unfavourable arguments of the Basque Government. I'll do it. Because in politics we also have to face up, and we have to explain to citizens why we vote yes or why we don't vote, and we don't have to be afraid of any kind of debate. And I, even though I am alone and quite surrounded in this Parliament, believe that I also have an obligation to come down to the rostrum and explain why I vote yes to a particular initiative or why I vote not, in this case, to this initiative. These are, in any case, my arguments, which I hope can be respected by the rest of the groups, and in this particular case especially by the People's Group, and also by the citizens attending this plenary. I say that first of all I have to say that I share the arguments of the Basque Government as set out in its unfavourable approach: One. The law to be amended was passed by the Basque Parliament just under seven years ago, and has not been a stable period of implementation long enough to allow an assessment of the measures taken. Two. The law affects the living conditions of the most vulnerable, and most of the proposals contained in the ILP are in line with tightening the criteria or requirements for access to it, leaving out the system of protection for the weakest link in the chain. And three. All modifications that arise must go in the line of improving the system, not cutting it. We share these arguments put forward by the Basque Government. There are more arguments to vote against this initiative. For formal reasons: we believe that the initiative can be considered fraudulent. It is an initiative promoted by the Basque PP, and in particular by the former mayor Maroto. Everyone knows it, and PP himself has said it. In fact, it was an important part of his last election campaign. That is, to be clear, an illegitimate use is being made of a tool that seeks to bring politics closer to citizenship. It is also worth recalling, to explain our vote against, the campaign promoted by Maroto over the past few months. It is true that it causes shame to remember that campaign, but it must be remembered. The media campaign promoted by members of the People's Party in Euskadi to question the Basque system of social protection, and especially the absolutely irresponsible and unacceptable attitude of the then mayor of Vitoria and parliamentarian, Mr Maroto, who, far from raising a reasoned, calmed and argued debate on concrete measures to improve the system and reduce existing levels of fraud, preferred to insist on irresponsible, demagogic and populist statements of the kind that can lead to citizen confrontation and stigmatisation of certain groups, which he initially pointed out as responsible for the existing fraud. That this takes place in Vitoria, a city that has historically been an example of civic coexistence, plurality and mestization, and social protection, is even more outrageous. The calmed and argued political debate was not chosen, but the exaggeration and even the lie, and the stigmatization of certain groups, generalizing in them the existing fraud, in an irresponsible and unjust way. Of this there are not too many precedents in Euskadi, Mrs Garrido. We can discuss everything in the House, but we preferred to raise, rather than a parliamentary proposal, a neighborhood fight. It's not all for supposedly a handful of votes. And this phrase was repeated by UPyD in the various debates on this issue. Mr Maroto made a number of absolutely irresponsible statements. He pointed directly to the Magrebians, whom he accused of not wanting to work. He accused Algerians and Moroccans of not wanting to work and of living from social assistance. He stated that some nationalities live on social assistance and have no interest in working, as if all citizens of a given place acted in the same way. In addition, the representatives of the People's Party spoke of mass immigration and entire colonies of immigrants receiving aid, and of the supposed so-called effect of our social protection system, which is certainly neither true nor would be fraud. Instead of promoting these prejudices and making these statements, what every political representative should do is to promote integration and social cohesion. [[Berber]] If I am allowed to continue, I will be able to continue and explain my arguments, which I want to put forward in this Parliament to explain my vote against. And it's all these and some more I'll tell you later. And if I'm allowed to continue, I'll be able to continue. I say that instead of promoting these prejudices and making these statements, what every political representative should do is to promote integration and social cohesion. It is one thing to denounce existing fraud, and it is another to burn down coexistence. One thing is to propose to perfect the system, and another to stigmatize certain groups of immigrants. One thing is to propose improvements to make the system work better, and another to use racism as a political tool. One thing is to defend the ideas in which one believes, and another to encourage fear of the other. It is one thing to denounce criminal behaviour or fraud, and another very different to opt for generalization and the thick line. It is one thing to use concrete data, and another to invent, manipulate or use it in its own expediency. As a follow-up to that campaign, this popular legislative initiative emerged. The signatories of this ILP will perhaps tell me that they are not to blame for the misdemeanours of others; however, the issue is that those misdemeanours have poisoned the debate. And that is where I wanted to arrive: the previous deviations promoted by Mr Maroto and the People's Party have poisoned the debate. Thanks to Maroto we cannot discuss these issues in this Parliament; we cannot discuss them in depth, as a result of the PP's voluntary poisoning of this debate. The debate is indeed poisoned, and the debate has been poisoned by those behind this initiative. The PP has deliberately poisoned this debate, and has therefore poisoned its own initiative. Moreover, we obviously do not share the content of this ILP. Indeed, most of the proposals put forward are basically cutbacks. We do not, therefore, share the content of the ILP, and we also think that the appropriate conditions are not given to open this melon. It is precisely the political party behind this ILP that has prevented it with its actions and attitude. I am sure that the law can be improved and updated, but this is a wrong way, and it is also contaminated precisely by the only ones who support it and who are behind it. The priority now in Euskadi is to overcome this stage that Maroto opened, and that the rejection of this initiative can definitely close. That is why our vote against. The Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act can obviously be improved, all groups have said so in this House, but that requires consensus and clean play. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u24	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing on the answering round, Mrs Garrido. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u25	Well, on the one hand I regret that those who preach dialogue so much, speak until dawn, participation..., today have refused to go out to this rostrum or have not wanted to go out to this rostrum simply to give their arguments as to why they are going to vote not to take into consideration this proposal signed by thousands of citizens. Thousands of citizens, as I said, of all ideologies. So, a little more respect. The ideologies are too much. Of all the ideologies we're sitting here. And you know what? That in the end, then, it seems that it hurts you a lot, because you know it, because you know that that is so, because this matter is a cross-cutting issue, as you like to say. It is absolutely a cross-cutting issue. This is a matter of concern to citizens, because many have seen it in their own flesh (of course, there are also many who have not had the situation that many citizens have had, or have many citizens on the street), the injustices of a protection system, the shortcomings of a protection system, the abuses that occur in the protection system. All those issues that you ended up recognizing, but ended up recognizing, as I said earlier, before the clear evidence of the data, which clearly passes over them and which were also the official data of this Government. That is why I want to say that it is very sad that yesterday the lehendakari also appeals to consensus in a speech addressed to entrepreneurs, to dialogue, to the pact, and today the party representing the government does not have the democratic decency to go out to this rostrum and not even support the unfavourable approach of this government. So, too, a lot of political hypocrisy, a lot of fading, little democratic quality, yes, little democratic quality. And I will no longer say those gentlemen, who are far from being in democracy. Little democratic quality here, when we are all systematically filled with participation, this government brings in numerous bills with sections that occupy no know how many leaves talking about citizen participation, and when you want to do a citizen participation exercise then you just put a gag on them and slap them. Citizens will take note of this Government, and they will take note of the political parties that today want to silence their voice. And look, Mr. Maneiro, I have the pleasure of simply arguing with you, and I'm going to tell you a few things. Look, I don't know if you haven't heard... Well, he's also been a government defender. Then the lehendakari gets very angry with you and tells you these things that he repeats the same things four times. Now when he comes out, he also repeats the unfavorable view of the Government, which I am sure tomorrow does not tell him that he has repeated the same things four times. But look, we are in the debate on the consideration of a proposal by thousands of citizens. We're not talking about statements. We're not talking about statements. We are talking about taking account of an initiative, when in this House, because there are no precedents, a similar initiative has never been taken into consideration. You were telling us here that you are going to reduce the necessary signatures, and the flag was placed here that you are going to reduce the necessary signatures from 30,000 to 10,000, that you want me to participate in today's debates, that in debates like today's one you can participate... But if you are not going to vote today on a proposal from thousands of citizens, and you are talking about changing the law so that the requirements are lower and that citizens who sign up for a popular legislative initiative can speak here in this rostrum! But what an exercise in political cynicism! That's cheating on the citizens, Mr. Maneiro. That's cheating on the citizens. And it seems a lie that someone deceives the citizens in this way, someone who also stands up to tell the truth to the citizens. I was talking about Mr. Maroto. Look, I'm just going to tell you one thing: because thousands of citizens in Vitoria have shared many of Mr. Maroto's statements, and there are the results of the last elections and there is also the lack of results of his party, UPyD, in the city hall and in the general meetings. By the way, yes, we respect their arguments, of course we respect them. We're respectful. What you are not going to respect here today is the voice of so many citizens who want to silence, silence and those who want to give a slap in every way, as will be seen here today in the vote. No excuses, Your Honor. It said "unlawful use." Unlawful use why? Illegal use of what, Mr. Maneiro? Are you saying that the 40,000 signatures are illegitimate, Mr. Maneiro? I want that question to be clarified. What has become clear when you came out to speak here today is that you are mocking thousands of citizens, and that you (you are also here today), with your negative vote, apart from giving a doorway, are insulting thousands of citizens. And I would also like you to clarify one question when I come out here now: Are you calling 40,000 citizens who have brought a proposal here simply to improve things that do not work and that we, as legitimate representatives of them, have the minimum duty simply to listen to them, Mr Maneiro?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u26	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. On the answering shift, Mr. Maniro. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u27	Thank you, President. It gives me the feeling, Mrs Garrido, that you have no idea what democracy is. [[Barres]] If anyone has shown absolute respect to the signatories of this initiative has been a server. I absolutely respect each of the signatures of that initiative. But obviously respecting can't mean giving them reason. I respect them, therefore, and when the case comes, I take the opposite from them, and the time has come to vote against this initiative, because I do not agree. That is democracy: that they can freely defend this initiative and that the rest of the groups can put forward arguments to say that we are against this initiative. Here's the thing. That's the thing, yeah. That's the thing: that they can defend her and I can criticize her. That is the issue, and that is the game of democracy. Did I call any of the signatories of this initiative xenophobic or racist? [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u28	Mesedity, isiltasuna. Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u29	Not at all. Not at all. I have said something that is absolutely true, and that is that Mr Maroto has made xenophobic and racist statements over several months. And that, therefore, set fire to coexistence and poisoned the debate on social aid. (Berbotsa)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u30	Please, silence! Please, silence! Please, he's had a chance to defend the members of your team. Game Over! Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u31	You have to listen to those who bring you the opposite! That you have to listen to someone who thinks otherwise!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u32	Mr. Sémper, shut up or go out next time. Please, silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u33	The election campaign is over. Now I'm trying to... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u34	Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u35	I am trying to make arguments, and I say that they have every right in the world to present this ILP and I have every right in the world to come down to the rostrum and bring them the opposite and tell them that they are not right. In my opinion, they're not right. And most importantly, and we have repeated it several times over the past few months, you have deliberately poisoned a debate. One thing is to propose initiatives to put an end to the existing fraud in social aid, something that all groups can share, and another is to use this issue irresponsibly to attack the people who are in the worst situation in society in the Basque Country. And that's your responsibility. I have not called any of the signatories xenophobic or racist. I said that racist and xenophobic statements were raised and made. If not, how do you explain that this is perhaps the only ILP that will not be taken into consideration? Why is this happening? Why is this happening? Why do the rest of the groups say no to the consideration of an ILP that has more than 40,000 signatures? Because you are behind it, which was the ones that poisoned the debate, and there is no way at this time of talking about this matter in a responsible and paused way. Because you set this debate on fire and you set it on fire. Why isn't Mr. Maroto mayor today, gentlemen of the People's Party? (Berbotsa) Why aren't you mayor today? Why?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u36	Please! Mr. Maniro, wait a minute. Mesedity, isiltasuna! Mesedity, isiltasuna! Please, be quiet. Otherwise, they're going out on the street. Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u37	In any case, and in conclusion, I fully respect this initiative. I would have liked the signatories to have come down to this rostrum to explain and defend it. And of course what I am not going to do is resign from my duties as a parliamentarian, which is to come up to this rostrum and explain with arguments why we are voting against the consideration of this ILP. And you, from now on, can do what you think: either continue to burn down coexistence or, ultimately, from consensus, from dialogue and from parliamentary work, try to improve all existing laws, including the Income Guarantee Act. That's your responsibility already. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u38	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The debate is ended, whether the legislation of the legislature is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 75; 10; counters, 65; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u39	The law proposition, therefore, has not been taken into consideration for the initiative of the people. After that, it's the turn of the vote. That's a vote, not a moment to argue. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Pastor, your word is Miss Sarasa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u40	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. The Socialists and the Socialists defend our system of social protection, the result of a broad consensus, which has prevented thousands of people from leaving at the worst times, because it is an effective model that responds to our idea of a just, solidarity and cohesive society; we reject any fraud, and also the partisan use of this system to stigmatize collectives. Like any system, it records faults that need to be corrected. As in all public services, there are people who cheat and steal public resources for personal benefit. Our strongest rejection of this fraud, whether in the public service or in the collection system. Those who deceive must be punished as prescribed by law. They defraud, deceive or delinquent people, not collectives. Thousands of people have signed an initiative to amend the 2008 law regulating income security income and, they say, end fraud in the GIR. And we have to tell them that for that there is no need to change the law, because it already provides for how to sanction this conduct. In any case, the ways to prevent such fraud must be strengthened, whether in Lanbide or through the control of documentation, in order to avoid counterfeiting, which is often the choice of persons who fail to do so. Therefore, those who have subscribed to this initiative have a goal to share with us, but those who pushed us to do so did not explain to them that there was no need to change the law. It has used its signatures and an exclusive speech for an election campaign, and, after the campaign is over, it is not in this Parliament today to defend its proposal. We Socialists reject all kinds of frauds, those in income-guarantee income and those in taxation, which are much more extensive. For these there has been no initiative to change the rule, because it is not necessary. It requires specific plans, which my group has also promoted in this House. That is why, because we reject the frauds and we reject that these frauds are linked to collectives, and because whoever promoted this law does not even defend it, we reject the treatment of a cheating, partisan and electoral proposal. This Parliament represents the Basques and Basques. We move their initiatives, sometimes through parliamentary groups, sometimes through the popular initiative. In this legislature we have passed two laws, that of fracking and that of shared custody. We show our positions in favour or against, with our arguments. On this occasion it is overwhelming the majority that we interpret that the people who have signed this initiative deserve our respect and we share with them the concern, the fight against fraud, but that the chosen path is not the right one, as its promoter knew perfectly well. Income guarantee income is an example at the state level, and is among the protection standards in the most advanced countries. Because the most advanced are not only those who invest in employment, education, health, research. The most advanced are those who take all measures to recover for society the people who need us most. Almost a year ago we devoted a monograph to this issue, and we adopted more than half a hundred measures that are still to be developed, some relating to the fight against fraud and almost all aimed at covering all those who suffer most from the crisis and its consequences. No deception, no excluded person, no confrontation between those who need the solidarity of society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. Next, representative of the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u42	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. EH Collect has not taken notice of the legislature of a people whose income is designed to reduce the revenues, because EH Collect will always refuse to use them with a false lie, and to manipulate them, just as the political party has intended to make a proposition of this law, and to manipulate the people for just an application of their own interests. And in that process, the wounded are left. In this strategy of seeking his emancipative interest, he has faced the people. This group has put in the balance those who are in a bad condition, and even more, it has been attempted to raise the poor against the poor for its own sake. On the other hand, we must clearly show that here the law has been deceived, and that it is a serious violation of the law in the legislature. EH Bildu has no doubt that a political group has committed law fraud, because precisely the law regulating popular legislative initiatives clearly expresses that popular legislative initiative is inspired by social spontaneity, and this, of course, is not the case. This ILP is not the result of social spontaneity, it is not an initiative conceived in the street, in the people, but it was born in the laboratory of ideas of a political headquarters. They were the same people who organized, financed, promoted the ILP, because it was part of the strategy they used for the past municipal elections. This is not a legislative nation, this is a political initiative, and we all have the opportunity of presenting as many proposals as we please in this legislature. Anyone who wants to change the Bill of Money Act can make a law proposal today. All groups have the right to propose a legal amendment. EH Bildu is willing to change the law. What is happening is that our objectives are totally opposite to those we are considering today. To what there is no right is to resort to the figure of the ILP with the sole objective of manipulating people by a few votes. To accept this initiative would be to distort the very meaning of the ILPs, whose spirit is the defence and extension of human rights. This ILP goes in the opposite direction: its objective is to cut rights, to cut rights for people in vulnerable situations. In addition, it is a campaign of harassment and destruction against immigrant groups. We and we aren't going to go through there. We're not going to accept any cuts in social rights. In the face of an economic and social crisis, the solution can never be to cut rights. By proposing to withdraw their access to GIR, this initiative condemns thousands of people to live on the street, to go hungry and cold, just because they are immigrants. EH Bildu will never endorse that barbarity. All our fellow citizens, all the people we live here must have guaranteed decent living conditions, we were born in Apatamonasterio, Cuenca or Mauritania. On the other hand, the content of the ILP is disguised in order to make it clear that the aim is to combat social aid fraud. What hypocrisy! Just read the text to see that there is not a single proposal that contributes to combating any kind of fraud. Virtually all proposed changes are restrictive. The aim is to make it more difficult for immigrants, if not impossible, to receive these rights. It is the message of the far right, that of "Spain for the Spaniards" that some so much like. On the other hand, the intention here is to defend in the GIR a specific subsidy for pensioners is the height of cynicism. This is not where you decide that pensions are as miserable as they are. Furthermore, I would remind you that since EH Bildu has been proposed more than once in this Parliament to undo the cuts in the GIR, and the answer that has been given to us has always been no. We will insist again, and we trust that the next time the answer will be positive. We have a very clear idea that the revenues should be changed by the law of Berma. We have proposed this several times, and will do so again, but to extend rights, not to reduce, not to lessen, all persons who need it, may receive the assistance of the Administration, and even, in order to improve the working of the profession, that the profession of profession is not functioned as it ought to work, and that it is urgent to take effective measures to subvert it. We all have to work in that direction to promote work and social rights. That's our commitment, and that's what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. And finally, the Eubertarians represent the team. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. I shall try to explain the negative vote of the law of law which the eulogy proposes to socialize the community and to change the law of the revenue. We have often disputed in the legislature about the community's protection system, and the position of our party has always been equal, clear and firm, favorable to the system. Engree_BAR_Lores We accepted with great conformity to society, and the law of the revenues to the Renaissance, the precursor, and the model of Europe, both in the State and in Europe. In order to ensure the revenues we have the best instrument for cohesion of society, it guarantees those who are in the most serious financial condition, a minimum of resources to lead a decent life, and to avoid the conditions of society, so we need society's protection system. We're on the side of improving the system. And precisely the popular legislative initiative aims to the contrary: it seeks to tighten the requirements of access to income guarantee income. We reject the stigmatization of one of the weakest and most disadvantaged groups in our society that is suffering the most from the consequences of the crisis. That is why we voted against the ILP. The system of protection that we have is necessary, allows for greater social cohesion and largely avoids falling into social exclusion for the perceptors and perceptors. The Basque Nationalist group therefore defends the current social protection system that we have, and will work to improve it, to make it more viable, sustainable and effective, and to ensure access to GIR for people who are in the weakest link in our society. The Department of Social Policy, Employment and Housing also supports a thorough analysis of the social protection system as a whole, and has publicly announced the creation of a working group to study how to improve and make the system we have more effective. This group will continue to work for the improvement of the system, so that people, all those who need income guarantee income, can continue to receive it in order to facilitate a dignified life for them, and is willing to sit down and talk about it in a calm way, in the way that we all establish, leaving aside partisan interests and really seeking the improvement of the system. We also show our strongest commitment to further work on improving and strengthening control systems, on inter-agency collaboration to eradicate possible abuses or fraud, and on sanctioning offenders. It is worth recalling the fraud control unit set up in Lanbide to prosecute abuses and punish offenders, and the collaboration of both Ertzaintza and local police. We find it a genuine irresponsibility of some political representatives to complain constantly about the existence of fraud linked to the origin of the perceptors. It's irresponsible and unfair. This cannot stigmatize the weakest link in society, the people who need this benefit in order not to fall into social exclusion. This group will therefore support initiatives to improve controls and reject speeches, initiatives and proposals aimed at tightening access requirements. Finally, despite the fact that they have already abandoned the plenary hall, I would like to say that the signatories of the popular legislative initiative deserve the full respect of the Basque Nationalist group. We are ready to dialogue and agree; to dialogue to improve the system, to optimize resources, to solve the problems detected. But there will be no dialogue if what they are pursuing – and thus has been evidenced by the manifestations of their promoter – is to leave one of the most needy groups out of this system. And, as the ILP's basis seeks to harden the access requirements for the recipients of GIR, it has not obtained the support of our group or the other groups in the House, except for the group behind this initiative. In our view, both the Government and the group that supports it, we must maintain and improve as much as possible the social protection system that we have, as an essential tool for promoting social cohesion. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Third point in theme list: "The controversy and the final resolution concerning the mutual observation of these laws: "Provide the bill of law made by the legislature, which changes the 1/1988 law of the United Nations's Euskal Court. "The bill of law made by the popular team of Euscal Acts, Tribunal Vasco de Cuentas Públicas/ the 11/1988 Law of the Basque Office of the People, February 5th." You're in the documentation where you're parted, and we're just going to argue. Let's start with the side shift. Who wants to participate in the next round? Anyone else? Okay. On the side shift, you too? In spite of this, the representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Aguirre, begins with the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u46	Thank you, ma'am. The Parliament appointed seven members of the People's Court in the previous June. As we said in the plune of the hour, according to the usual bad custom, PNV, Socialists, and Poptular party agreed to separate these 7 offices according to their political calculations. It was not a new thing, it was a common practice, an old one, that turned the old one into a new one. At the same time, we saw how they chose the neighboring Arlia. Institutation and public offices use them as chromiums, always by the consent of sectarian interests. And neither the intermediary nor the Accounting Court is an exception. As I have said, the matter courts were conducted and arranged between PNV, the Social Party, and the Populative Party. They left the Basque Country behind, because you probably knew that you were very good, and that we'd never get into this kind of game. You can't swap chromes with EH Shades. The PNV, the Socialist Party and the People's Party cooked up the renewal of the Basque Court of Public Accounts as we saw last June. They left EH Bildu out of the process, surely because they were aware that with us it is not worth the exchange of chromes, that we will never get into those games of hands. That had been the usual practice, but EH Bildu's firm will is to banish it forever. That is why we proposed a bill. The Basque Court of the People is a very important function, because it is the case whether public administrations properly employ public money and whether they use it as a command or not. This function requires necessarily to ensure the objectivity and political neutrality of the court. These are the principal features, as well as those which are to be supported in this institution (objectiveness and political neutrality). And it is plain that both objectivity and neutrality are in danger when the seven members of the court are promoted by political interests. This is what has hitherto happened, and it is time to overcome this scheme once and for all. This schema based on the exchanges of chromus is not valid to ensure the objective and neutrality of the accounts courts. So just, it brings the opposite: the political dependence of the institution. This is the scheme that the Basque People want to overcome, and for that purpose, as I said, we presented a proposal of law in June last June. The law of the law of the law of accounts was admitted in 1988, and the practice of the year has shown that certain guarantees must be inserted in the law in order to spell the functions of this institution. The end of our proposition of law is therefore clear: To guarantee the objectivity and political neutrality of the accounts courts. Queremos muntizar la objectividad y la neutralidad pollia del Tribunal Vasco de Cuentas Públicas. For this purpose, we plan, or establish, in one article, two measures: First, that the legislature should appoint members of the court in proportion to the representation of each member of the legislative or of the legislative body. The law of honor regulated it thus, and the benefits of this system are evident: on the one hand political diversity is established in the court, and the other ends with the exchange of chromiums. It is clear: If the court of accounts is to be used as a coin in negotiations between parties, it is not possible to make use of the matter's court as a coin. The election of the members of the Basque Court of Auditors must always meet the criteria of proportionality, according to the representativeness of the parliamentary groups. Proportionaltasunaren irizpidean aplikatuta, PNVri 3 ordezkari legozkioke, Euskal Herria Bilduri 2, Partidu Sozialistari 1 éa Alderdi Popularrari 1. The second measures of the law proposal are the same: to guarantee objectivity and political neutrality. And looking at it, he opposes the danger of eternalizing several persons in public offices. It is a capital measure, that it should be indispensable to those who have had political zeal in the public sector, to leave the office, and then to enter the Court of Accounts, because such a state would question the objectiveness and neutrality of this institution. And I'm not talking about fiction. That's where the President of the People's Court is now: The next day, the president of the People's Court of Investigation, ceases to be the supreme power of vice. To prevent such events, we propose two years' time-that is to say, to leave a political position, and at least two years before we can become members of the accounts courts. In Catalonia they apply four years' term, but we plan two years, because even in Navarre it's two years old. We have, in some measure, sought coherence in the four countries of the South Basque Country. In order to ensure the objectivity and political neutrality of the court, it is necessary to address the risk of politicians perpetuating themselves in public office. This court and other institutions cannot be agencies for the relocation of public charges, because they lose all their credibility. We knew that when we proposed this proposal of law, there would be no effect in naming new members. However, we thought it necessary now to establish objective criteria. Two proposals of law will be considered to-day; whether to give him the ticket or not. In June, most of you spokesmen, at least at least, and recently the government has accepted the possibility of making changes. The Popular Party agrees with a portion of EH Collect, that it must be two years' time to leave the public office, and to have the peace of the People's Court, but it is short; for it does not observe the composition and representation of this legislature. We find ourselves in the presence of the moment when the organization is about to begin to exasperate. Let's not lose this moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u47	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre generous. Next, Mrs. Quiroga, representative of the Poulag of Euskals, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u48	Very good morning. Thank you, Madam President. I will begin the intervention, the defense of this proposal of law, making mine the words of Daniel Innerarity – ex-member of the Ethics Commission of the Basque Government – in the 2013 Journal of Public Audit: "The obscene walkways between politics and control is one of the great failures of Spanish democracy". I think it is a phrase that clearly outlines the situation, and above all the debate that we have here today is very well framed. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this is an important matter, and that it will serve, depending on the meaning of the vote of each of us, of each of the groups, to illustrate how we stand in the concept of power: what kind of controls should power be subjected to, and what kind, what profile of people are the most appropriate to administer, from independence, that control that is necessary and indispensable to give our institutions the lost credibility. Here in Euskadi it does not seem to the Government to consider this matter important, because with its actions, with its facts, it has shown that it has no sensitivity to it on an important matter – I insist –. I do not know, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to this debate, whether it is more appropriate or appropriate to focus this matter on a name of its own (on José Luis Bilbao), but I am quite clear that this appointment defines them, positions them as government, in a clear conception that it is more important for you to have everything controlled rather than just the opposite, to control externally from your government. There is no doubt in placing a member of his party at the head of the Court of Auditors, and not just anyone, but who until a few hours ago (because it was a matter of hours) had been an outside deputy of Bizkaia, and who also allowed himself the luxury, at his farewell, of saying that those who used black money, those who had accounts in Switzerland, those who openly failed, because he was not going to write his memoirs. It seems to us that these circumstances clearly define a government in its arrogance, self-sufficiency and contempt for our institutions of self-government. This so blatant, so obscene, so clearly contradictory appointment with the function of supervising the Government, let us say that it was the gout that filled the glass to propose this initiative to amend the Act on the Establishment of the Court of Auditors. We believe that the time has come, if we really want to strengthen the credibility of our institutions and ultimately improve the quality of our democracy, which is, on the other hand, what we should all be here for, regardless of our ideological differences. And reform for what? Reform to prevent a politician from being able to be a member of the supervisory body until a prudent period of time has elapsed. Two years, as required by other regions which also have these monitoring bodies and which have made the changes. Even in that we have not been pioneers or are going to be pioneers. And why not here, ladies and gentlemen? Reform so that the members of the court are independent, well-trained and experienced professionals in their respective professions of at least ten years. Reform also to ensure that the court's recommendations are enforced. And if the will of this Government is not to reform, as they have shown, but to the contrary, it will be the opposition that we are proposing this amendment. And that is the meaning of the amendment of the Law on the Establishment of the Court of Auditors proposed by the People's Party. We have to stop using institutions and agencies once and for all, and even sports clubs, such as power levers or placement offices. This can't be. We must all back down and strengthen civil society, and this is a good opportunity to show that Basque society and politics are advancing maturely towards new times, where demand, control and transparency are not a recommendation, but an imperative obligation. It is up to us, but above all to this Government, to speed up this modernization, those necessary reforms of the institutions; institutions that must be recognized and recognizable in new and different contexts, where appointments such as that of Mr Bilbao, member of his party, new president of the Court of Auditors, which today must be inhibited in many outstanding jobs because it is incompatible with his previous office, do not have a pass, ladies and gentlemen. They do not have a pass, however much the Lehendakari himself praises the independence of the deputy general of Bizkaia and important position of the Basque Nationalist Party during all these years. And also, ladies and gentlemen, on the understanding that the vote will be positive and that this reform will indeed pass the procedure that we are going to vote on today and that we will proceed to discuss it, and that we will also move on to work on it, I do want to ask that we all speed up the work of this House. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that this House now, in today's sitting, initiate the work of amending a law, but what we are then in, the reality is that it is too long and that these proposals for amending do not end up seeing the light. And I am referring because I would also like to recall here the amendment of the Ararteko Law, which was adopted there for the month of February, in June is when it has finally been convened for the first time, that presentation has been constituted, and today is the day on which work has not yet begun. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, those who have the responsibility, which is precisely the responsibility of the Basque Nationalist parliamentary group, that this yes to the amendment of the Court of Auditors Act today is also a yes that is agile, so that this Parliament can also, as I said, accompany the need for credibility that the institutions have and that citizens are demanding from us. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. And next to Mistto... Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u50	Yes, thank you, President. Obviously, we will vote in favour of taking these proposals into consideration, because we are in favour of changing the law of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. In fact, last October we already tabled a motion so that a presentation could be made to study the amendment of the Law of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, with the aim of achieving its modernization, depoliticization and professionalization. And the truth is that on that occasion both the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party voted against, and therefore we can say, at this point, that we have lost a year. If we had voted in favour of the launch of that paper exactly a year ago, it is possible that even today we would already have a new law, and we would have even avoided the shame that Mr Bilbao is today president of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. However, as I say, both the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group a year ago avoided opening this debate. And today is still an obvious thing that we have been denouncing for years, on the other hand in solitary: that the Basque Court of Public Accounts is taken, is occupied by political parties. Each of the political groups present here has tried to place their own, and as many of their own as possible. And its aim has not been, nor has it been, that the Basque Court of Public Accounts works better and fulfils its functions better, but that its own, within the Basque Court of Public Accounts, better defend its partisan interests. This is what has been happening in Euskadi for the past few years. And these proposals that are being put forward today I fear that they do not aim to improve the work that the Basque Court of Public Accounts usually does, but rather the possibility that the different political groups that have presented these initiatives can place more people of their own in that Basque Court of Public Accounts. And that is an obvious fact in the proposed law proposed by EH Bildu. The fact is that parliamentary negotiation has historically, in general, focused not so much on the technical profile required of the candidate, but on the number of members to be proposed to each group. Thus, fidelity to an acronym, and even the past trajectory in posts of political management, become key elements for the election. In fact, as I said, that is at the basis of the initiative put forward by EH Bildu. EH Bildu wants to include more of his own in the Basque Court of Public Accounts, and that is why he proposes this initiative. We will, in any case, take advantage of the opening of the possibility of amending the law to include measures that go in the line of depoliticization and professionalization. Of course, Mr Bilbao's relocation to the Basque Court of Public Accounts is an absolute shame, and we have already said so. It is possible that Mr Bilbao's election is behind the initiatives recorded by both the People's Group and the EH Bildu Group, but the truth is that we had already proposed to open this debate in October. If we remember those facts, at last, we can remember that the Socialist Group supported Mr Bilbao's election as a member of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, and that the People's Party and EH Bildu criticized him, but they also tried to place their own. This is a fact. All the political groups present here, except UPyD, tried to place their own in the Basque Court of Public Accounts. And the goal was not to professionalize that Basque Court of Public Accounts, the goal was not to work better, but, once within that Basque Court of Public Accounts, to better defend the interests of each of you and your political groups (the Basque Nationalist Party, the People's Party, the Socialist Group and EH Bildu). All groups have therefore maintained this shameful system to keep trying to place their own. Groups raise their voices when they feel hurt in their quota. However, we continue to think that the model needs to be radically changed. And I'm not talking about watching what happens in Navarre, for example. We can go further, see what is done in other European countries, see for example and study the Anglo-Saxon model, as possibly the best system to ensure this professionalisation of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. In conclusion, the system of election of the members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts pollutes everything; that its members be elected by parliamentary groups, the same, and it is also somewhat shameful. And, of course, that Mr Bilbao jumps directly from the Bizkaia District Council to the presidency of the court, something that cries out to heaven. And now, therefore, it is a matter of promoting the relevant legal reforms to restore credibility to the court, introduce any changes that are deemed necessary, and modernise, professionalize and depoliticize it. With regard to the initiatives that arise, the justification for EH Bildu's initiative speaks of ensuring the objectivity and political neutrality of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, and it is said that it is indispensable for it to be able to fulfil its role properly. It says that this law establishes the obligation for the Parliament to appoint the members of that body in a proportional manner, according to the representativeness of the parliamentary groups. He said that the objectivity and political neutrality of the court were questioned if persons who had exercised political responsibilities in the Basque public sector left their posts and became directly part of that court. That is to say, EH Bildu basically raises two complaints: that EH Bildu could not appoint more members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, and that the Basque Nationalist Party could indeed plug Mr Bilbao. But they also want to plug their people into the Basque Court of Public Accounts, they also want to put their people into the Basque Court of Public Accounts. And the People's Group also wants to place its people within the Basque Court of Public Accounts. And this is, in our opinion, what needs to be changed. Not only to change the technical profile of the members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, but to change the system of choice. And there are very interesting models outside our country that go in that line. The People's Group speaks of the fact that the bodies responsible for monitoring and controlling political and institutional activity must ensure in their exercise, operation and composition an objective independence and impartiality that would remove any shadow of suspicion about possible party ties or control by political parties. And from there he proposes a series of measures which, being generally all positive, the truth is that we think they are insufficient. They are insufficient because the system is maintained. It is this Parliament that elects the members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. And, therefore, the measures proposed by each other, even though some of them may be in the right direction, the fact is that they are measures that do not guarantee the depoliticisation and professionalisation of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. We, in any case, vote in favour of the inclusion, and we will put forward our corresponding amendments. It is curious that the People's Group puts in its explanatory statement concepts such as independence and impartiality, I say, because the People's Group has also tried to place its people within the Basque Court of Public Accounts. So we should ask Mrs Quiroga, and also the representative of EH Bildu, whether they agree with this, whether in the forthcoming elections the People's Group and the EH Bildu Group, and obviously the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, are going to try to place their people within the Basque Court of Public Accounts, or whether they are going to propose the change of model, which is what we are going to propose. On the other hand, you mentioned, Mrs Quiroga, the politicization of certain institutions and the promotion of certain measures to regenerate political life and to professionalise certain bodies. Are you going to push any steps to depoliticize justice in Spain? Are you going to keep putting your people on the General Council of the Judiciary? Are you going to keep putting your people in the Constitutional Court? Are you going to keep putting your people in the Supreme Court? Are you going to keep putting your people in the different state regulatory bodies? Because so far this is what they have done, and when UPyD in the Congress of Deputies has put forward certain measures to depoliticize all these bodies the People's Party, together with the Socialist Party, have repeatedly voted against. Therefore, in favour of consideration, even though measures that are clearly insufficient are included. Measures in line with depoliticising and professionalising the Basque Court of Public Accounts should be included. And we must change the model, so that political parties stop colonizing the different institutions, and in particular the Basque Court of Public Accounts, as it is today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u51	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. On the other hand, who wants to participate? On the other side? Well, if no one participates in the opposite round, there's no answer shift, and we'll go to the vote. (Response) No, there's only a reply when there's a turn against it, when someone intervenes against it. [[Berber]] The debate is ended, whether the billing of the EH Collect group be considered or not. Separation of the EH team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters are 64; the opponents are 0; the white ones are 0,0; abstentions, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u52	It's considered a legal proposition. After this, whether or not we vote for the law-propositation of the Potula group of Euscal Acts. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; Abstension, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u53	So this bill of law is considered. After that, it's the turn of the vote. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u54	Thank you, President. The Basque Socialists support the two proposals to reform the law governing the Basque Court of Public Accounts. These are initiatives by two groups, and with different motivations, it is true, which gives an idea of the interests that have led them to bring them to Parliament. Legitimate interests, obviously, but party interests, each of their own, and not transparency or avoiding revolving doors, as they strive to argue. Both proposals call for a single amendment. EH Bildu's does not seek transparency, seeks court fee, its fee. For us it shows a clear courteousness of sight. It is as if they thought they were always going to have the same parliamentary presence they have today. That of the PP is embedded in the definition of the qualification or requirements for access to the court's voice. We think this approach is more appropriate, but it is certainly not very consistent with what it does in other public bodies throughout Spain. What is good for them in Euskadi, once again, is not good for them in Madrid, not even with an absolute majority. And the Socialists are open to dealing with the reform of this law and of all the bodies that depend on this Parliament, which are accountable to him and to all the citizens. We want to update all the institutions, update them, and not continue acting out of inertia of rules that two or three decades ago could make sense and that today have another. What we are asked above all is efficiency in the management, the provision of services, the care of people, and also in the control of the accounts of the various administrations, which is the function of this court. And with this philosophy we consider positive the revision of the Ararteko, as reflected in the amendments we have tabled; also with this philosophy we have proposed to revise the model of public broadcasting, to depoliticize it, to open it to the citizens and to turn it into the engine of the audiovisual industry, and also the reform of the LTH, which seeks above all to put our administrations in the 21st century through mechanisms of collaboration, to be more effective and to gain in equality for the Basques. And that is why we want to talk about how to improve the Court of Auditors. Just over a year ago, at the initiative of my group, this Parliament adopted the Incompatibilities Act, which regulates conflicts of interest. The aim was precisely to eliminate any suspicion of particular or partisan interests in the exercise of politics and in the performance of public office. This law must be reflected in all instances. Members of the Court of Auditors should also be affected by these limitations. In the last renewal, the Socialists proposed two people with accredited experience in accounting and auditing, because we believe that they are optimal for the performance of the tasks to be carried out. That's what we realize. The rest of the noise that we want to generate in this debate should not make us lose the essentials. The question the proponents are trying to answer is whether we want to reform the law to make a distribution of party quotas, as Bildu raises, or we circumvent the debate on the proposals of this Parliament, as the PP raises. We prefer to ask ourselves how the functioning of the court can be improved, how we avoid conflicts of interest and shadows of suspicion, and how we adapt this body to the citizen demands of this century. These are the lines on which my group is going to work to improve very limited proposals for legal reform, which is the result of a momentum of a moment rather than a serious reflection, which is what socialists do when we bring legal reforms to a parliamentary process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u55	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. The U.S. P.I. A.A. has voted for it and we will explain it. We've voted side vote, though we've heard them and could see the clear, clear, clear statement of political hypocrisy that we've been able to see. How we have been able to see what explanations have been made against slanders and particular persons, how we have lately seen, when we have chosen them, and have participated in this choice, how others say that they partake of the alterations of chromum, and not themselves. This is a clear example of political hypocrisy, and contrary to it, he who says that this is not the case is nothing but falsehood. We vote on the side, though we mention that objectivity and neutrality are sought for, when we speak of larger quotas and more political strength, which is sought for when it is sought, and not objectivity and neutrality. We vote on the side, although it is said that it is by this proposition that several persons in public offices should not be long in public employments, and that they should not be on the same footing with each other, for this reason we are ready to work, for example, the proposals made to be made to the end, as well as for the proposed, when any person has received a subjugation from a department of euscal (for instance, in order to repair the usual housing), and that he can not be a member of the Basque Office of the People for two years; but, for example, it is not possible to be a member of the next day, as an Alsoon Minister. And that's how we prepare ourselves? "Sí, porque se illima a todas aquaellas personas, a todas aquaellas..." I'll read the roll. but it is said that "the public offices of the "Euscal sector" are called." Not much from the Basque sector. There are lots and lots of things to fix. Nevertheless, we will vote for him above the political hypocrisy, because it is really our intention, as we said in the previous discussion, to do all the work we have to do to improve this law of 26 years old, and we are ready to do, before all the political hypocrisy. We are not going to be conditioned by the falsehoods of some political parties, which are claiming that what they seek is the objectivity and neutrality of the body, of the court, when proposals have only been made precisely to ensure greater political representation, when they are conditioning the participation of subjects, of anyone who, for example, would have benefited from a subsidy from the Basque Government, or of any president or treasurer, for example, of a lot of NGOs, associations, foundations or sports federations. Or, for example, officials who have had or have active positions of responsibility or responsibility in relation to management, inspection or intervention of income or expenditure in the Basque public administration. But, however, any of us, for example, according to the proposals made, could be – and would not be subject to suspicion – as members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. In conclusion, I want to say that all the candidates that the Basque Nationalist group has presented, all have a proven professional experience, have an extensive academic qualification, and are the best and the best to perform the functions for which they have been elected. Hori da guk uste duguna. We must start from the principle of trust, not from the principle of suspicion that some political parties have recently sought to establish, depending on who it is. If it is Mr José Luis Bilbao, it is subject to the principle of suspicion, but if it is, for example, Mr Gotzon Olarte, who went from the Basque Government to the Basque Court of Public Accounts, appointed by Eusko Alkartasuna, it is not subject to any principle of suspicion, but to the principle of trust. Zintzotasuna. Zintzotasuna. Honesty is what is needed, and consistent with principles, to judge what everyone does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Forth point on the theme list: "To begin with, we shall assemble the other proposition of the law of Parliament, concerning the making of the refuge of the refuge of the refuge of the refuge of the refuge of the refugees of Euskal Autonomy in the Economies. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Gold, representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word to introduce and defend her.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Today, as in this legislature, we have another proposition on the table, which will deal with the political controversy about the watering of the human rights of the refugees, and consequently will soon receive a thousand members of Euscal Autonomy, a member of Erria. In the face of the escalation of the so-called so-called migration crisis, voices of rulers, politicians and so-called experts on the subject emerged, ensuring that this was not a European problem, but an African one or, in any case, of the Middle East. The shocking image of Aylan Kurdi, the Kurdish-Syrian boy lying inert on a beach in Turkey, after he wrecked the barge in which, together with his family, he was trying to reach the island of Cos in Greece, moved world public opinion, and highlighted the immense humanitarian drama that is unfolding in the Mediterranean. He was neither the first nor the last to pay with his life the crisis unleashed by the destabilization of a country, Syria, unfortunately turned into the target of sinister geopolitical calculations by the United States and its allies, which destroyed one of the most prosperous and stable countries in the region. This year more than 2,500 people have died in the Mediterranean waters. Thus this sea is the largest common pit in the world, which has accumulated more than 20,000 deaths for ten years. It is necessary to reveal the remarkable responsibility of the European Union for these deaths. For these men, the need they feel for their birth, have a direct relation to the economic, military, and commercial policies which the European Union has with Africa. These policies have led the African population to an endless humanitarian crisis. Nor can it be forgotten that the inhabitants of Europe had paper at the time of the settlement of Africa (the systematic selection, the breaking of the traditional continent structure, the unbalanced and arbitrary reorganisation) and the previously sought economic subordination. Europe's responsibility is much greater, visible and indomitable in the case of sub-Saharan Africa, because who colonized, occupied and plundered for centuries the evil so-called Black continent, but the European colonial powers? Who imposed their interests, perpetrated a cruel ethnocide and destroyed traditional life forms of economic, political and social organization in Africa? Who organized slave trades across the Atlantic, but European governments and ruling classes? Or was it that the colonialists of today believed that they could get away with it and not pay the bill for the crimes and misdeeds of their ancestors? How could European governments and their leaders say that the so-called so-called migration crisis, which so many deaths have caused and will continue to cause, is an African problem, when it is nothing other than the inexorable and delayed result of its colonial expansion? The European Union has constantly taken possession of a false pretext for defending the inhabitants of the East and African States, political and military. This has only increased the state of conflict by causing a great number of citizens to come and go. These persons, together with the victims of endgenum, are potential assassins, and should be under the protection of national protections signed by the States of the Union. Europe, however, shuts their doors, and they see no other means but to act in a country without much hope. In many cases the strangers are drowned in those predestinations, as illegal immigrants. In many others, countries such as Hungary, France, or Spain, with all their common simplicity, knowing that the international law is opposed to the humanitarian, are seriously wounded in the murderous barriers which build them up. In the face of the greatest exodus of refugees since World War II, the European Union's response is as ridiculous as it is shameful. A distribution of refugees, these famous quotas, has been established for 120,000 people. A miserable figure of 0.03% of its population, when we remember that since the beginning of the year more than half a million people have crossed European borders in search of asylum, and when we also remember that countries like Lebanon or Syria receive more than 2 million people, that is, more than 20% of their population. As a counterpart to the number of people established by the European Union to host in the member countries, a regulation has also been adopted on hot returns, on the return as soon as possible of immigrants in irregular administrative situations who do not consider themselves to be in refugee status, violating multiple directives in addition to conventions, including the European Convention on Human Rights. The politics of the migration control of the European Union are mistaken; instead of based on the end of surmounting human rights and wrongs, they are led to prevent access from the principle of security. This is against international legislation, and it's done for both the gigantic security companies and the utility of weapons. But amongst the privileges of the European Union there is no investment either in the salvation of the sea, or in the humanitarian aid. Such undertakings are of less importance, and are less and less employed in conducting them. Why did the unfortunate child of the Kurdish minority in Syria have to leave his country? Because, under the excuse of civil war, an aggression has been carried out outside by the United States and its European comrades, just as it happened a few years ago in Libya, and where bands of atrocious mercenaries are exalted as heroic freedom fighters, and politically and diplomatically supported as they commit all kinds of defiance. From this burrow created by Western democracies and their reactionary partners in the region the Islamic State emerged uncontrollable, with green light to perpetrate horrendous crimes and destruction of historical relics. Aylan Kurdi perished because he had to flee from hell into which Washington and European governments converted his homeland, despite the heroic resistance of the Kurdish people, especially their female combatants, who were able to put a stop to the military expansion of the Islamic State in their territories. We cannot continue to call civil war what is happening in Syria. Since early 2011 it has been an imperial invasion disguised as free Syrian armies, similar to what was the Nicaraguan counters of the 1980s from their bases in Honduras against Sandinista Nicaragua, which the U.S. governments called freedom fighters. Have we forgotten those heinous crimes in the Nicaraguan villages near the border with Honduras? Is it so hard not to recognize the face of fascism in everything that's happening? When Western powers announce the sending of weapons to Syrian dissidents, what are they talking about? When invaders find themselves as friends of the Syrian people to raise millions of dollars to pay mercenary salaries, buy more weapons, as they say openly, can this be a civil confrontation? Once again, we are seeing how without any modesty these powers intend to enter Syria, bring it to war with the excuse of fighting terrorism. The result of this macabre initiative can only bring more death and destruction, renewed contingents, as well as refugees and refugees knocking on the doors of opulent Europe. In that great map of imperialist rapture operations, also, in addition to sub-Saharan Africa, Syria or Libya, the ones we have mentioned, we do not forget and have examples in Iraq, Afghanistan, Kurdistan or Gaza. And it is that calling wars against terrorism wars to usurp territories and control resources, in a project of global imperial expansion, is one of the most perverse arguments in the history of the world. The greatest terrorist action of these times is the military invasions by NATO with its mercenary hordes on defenceless countries in the face of the military power of the powers. If these countries, which are squandering millions of euros to finance NATO, want a solution, this would be precisely to withdraw their troops from the invaded and occupied countries in the 21st century. If the West firmly believed in its so-called human rights doctrine, it would have to radically change its migration policy and take charge of its responsibility in the current crisis. But neither the United States nor the European Union seem to take this about human rights seriously, so the only thing that appears on the European horizon is a policy of greater migration control, of border closure, of expulsion of the so-called illegal migrants. As long as Europe continues to advance behind the geostrategic needs of a decadent empire, proposed by the global dictatorship, or the fascist dreams of the Israeli Government of spreading throughout the Middle East, which means new genocides in the region, the victims will continue to arrive massively, demanding protection from those responsible for this tragedy, and there will be no wall to resist. As EH Bildu's companions expressed in an opinion article on this subject, saying "Welcome refuges" is also calling an old, recognizable and current "Go home" to policies of military aggression, imperialism, which are the cause of death and injustice outside and within the Middle East. This worsening of the situation has allowed us to see the other side of the coin. It has also allowed us to see an organised civil society, a critical and organised European civil society, which extended its hand to refugees under these principles of global citizenship and solidarity among peoples, pushing many institutions to show support for the reception of refugees in a dignified way. In this respect, we have seen many signs of solidarity, also in this Autonomous Community, from different municipalities, from the parliaments, and also from EH Bildu. From the beginning we intend to do the same in this institution, in the proposal we are debating today. And then, through the media, we learned about the Basque Government's activities in relation to the institutions and social organizations, in addition to the appearance of Mr Toña in the Commission on Human Rights. We had the opportunity to discuss this, to ask a lot of questions that we had on this issue, not only on the part of EH Bildu, but also directly transferred by the municipalities. And he also had the opportunity to move us to what kind of planning they are going to carry out with the help of social organizations. There we convey to them our willingness to collaborate with the planning they had proposed. We also told them that we would be vigilant, because until now it was the theoretical part, the practice comes, and we would be very vigilant with these issues. We are also talking about the concern that what did happen when the Balkan conflict, which was also referred to by the adviser himself, was not repeated, because there was no long-term forecast precisely, and it is a key thing, because possibly the people who come will stay with us and us. With regard to this compromise amendment that has been signed by all the other groups in the House, I will refer to the second part of my speech, but I do not want to conclude without a few words from Saramago. "The movement from the south to the north is inevitable; it will not be worth wires, walls or deportations: it will come for millions. Europe will be conquered by the hungry. They're looking for what we stole from them. There is no return for them because they come from a famine of centuries and have been tracking the smell of pitanza. The distribution is getting closer and closer. The trumpets have begun to sound. Hate is served and we will need politicians (and politicians) who know how to live up to the circumstances." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Unzalu is the representative of the Basque Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief of Investigators, Congressmen, good noon to all. We Socialists are proud of the answer given to a human emergency of this size. This response was probably late. Many citizens' consciences were disturbed when an image of which we all know was the first news of the world's newspapers and televisors. Both the citizens, as well as the nearest institutions (which is to say in the letters) participated in the reaction which this image produced in them, and at last they discussed in a mean manner about them. In Euskadi he reacted quickly, preparing us to assume the problem with the intensity that corresponds and within our competences. We would have liked it, in line with this connection between citizenship and institutions, to have been expressed in the beginning of the political course, in the plenary of general policy, with an institutional declaration. We did what was in our hand, and other groups in the House supported this position, but it was not possible, because whoever brings this initiative today preferred to demarcate from the majority, chose to make a difference rather than seek unanimity in a matter that is needed, and everyone's support will unfortunately be needed in the future. It is the refugees themselves who need consensus on this issue. That is why we must face it from unity, even if we do not all have the same analysis of the origin of conflicts, although it is true that Europe and the so-called First World have to take responsibility for what has happened. Even if we have differences in the treatment of the problem, this must not be a matter of confrontation between the parties. The human value of refugees does not deserve to be the subject of political discussion, it demands respect for all parties and the need to agree. On Tuesday, the Congress of Deputies gave us an example in this regard, unanimously approving an initiative on the proposal of the Socialist Party. The consensus reached there is that we Socialists would like to be transferred to this Basque Parliament. What opportunity would we have had in this Parliament to be the first to speak, if it had not been for the sectarian attitude of some! But the Socialists are committed to being effective and responsible to this emergency that we are prepared to attend to, and also to the large migratory movements that are presumed to be in the coming times. Because we are perhaps talking about the biggest humanitarian, social, political, and short-term economic problem facing our society. The arrival of refugees from the East and Africa is caused by the impossibility of living in places of origin. People who come from the Middle East and the Middle East or Africa flee from territories that could at the time constitute nations, with a more or less common origin, language, religion and customs, but, if they always had problems with respect for their rights, today the situation of war, with different fronts and actors, makes life impossible for them. A few days ago I was listening in a television report to a German citizen who said why they do not stay in Saudi Arabia or other countries of the Persian Gulf, since they have the same climate, the same language, and in most cases the same religion. The answer is quite simple: all these refugees are seeking a homeland, in the sense of acquiring a citizenship that allows them to enjoy rights and freedoms, that recognizes them as citizens. That is why those who can try to reach Europe, in the hope that we will welcome them here and make them subjects of law. We already know that Europe is not the happy Arcadia, but its desire to start a dignified new life is in our hands. Europe must demonstrate its greatness, its civic commitment; it must demand from the Union a comprehensive immigration and asylum policy, a comprehensive policy with sufficient authority to ensure that all the countries of the Union comply with their commitments. There can be no immeasurable countries. Membership in the European Union entails these obligations, and those who are unwilling to assume them must be punished. We ask you not to repeat the noisy show of September 23rd. The problem of refugees and displaced persons around the world is much wider than Europe has on the table today. It is estimated that there are currently 60 million refugees in the world, the vast majority of whom live in precarious, if not subhuman, conditions in refugee camps. We are talking about hosting some 250,000 in a first performance that, according to estimates, can reach 900,000 throughout the year. But it is that in Turkey or Pakistan one and a half million refugees live ill for each of these countries. Lebanon, with a population of about 4 million, is home to 1 million refugees. In Iran, Jordan or Ethiopia, more than half a million people are refugees in each of those countries. It is clear that it is a global problem, which requires global commitments. We are in a globalized world that allows the free transit of goods and capital, but our great outstanding subject is to allow the free transit of people. For the next few years, the international community's great challenge will be to build a flexible model of coexistence. Just as we believe that the involvement of Europe is necessary, we consider the involvement of the Government of Spain to be essential. The Spanish Government has the power to issue asylum certificates. We demand a responsible and supportive attitude, not the suspicious and scarred stance he had at first. It is an obligation to act generously and to assume the quotas of people who belong to us. We Socialists believe that the Union's proposals should be accepted unreservedly. We also have our responsibility for citizenship and Basque institutions. As I said at the beginning of my speech, we welcome the response that has been given from the nearest citizens and institutions, such as the municipalities. It was the City Council of Eibar that first pushed this solidarity movement, and I believe that important steps have been taken to integrate Euskadi into a real network of cities shelter with the shelter devices prepared. On 16 September Mr Toña told us in the Commission on Human Rights of the forecasts they had, both of reception in the first phase and of arrangements for the moment of reception. It gave us an account of the resources that will be put in place in school, health, housing, psychosocial support, work, legal, etc. We believe that these actions should also be coordinated with municipalities and non-governmental organizations. Ladies and gentlemen, humanity must radically rethink the model of coexistence that we need to restore dignity to millions of people. We must move towards a world that globalizes human relations, that allows spaces of coexistence that do not exist today, that the walls fall and bridges are built. Immigrants, refugees, are people who deserve the opportunity to make a dignified life. It is everyone's responsibility to put an end to the shipwrecks in the Mediterranean. It is time for the public authorities to act decisively against the mafias who are controlling much of the migratory flows, taking advantage of those who escape the horror, and who are causing such deplorable facts as that which was discovered two days ago here in Hernani, which illustrates us about the real drama that these people are experiencing. We need to build a better society, in which all our children respond like that German child (the German thing is by chance) when they ask him to see if there are foreigners in his childhood school: "No, there are only children there," he said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u61	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mrs. Ruiz, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u62	Egun on. Thank you, Madam President. Consensus and unanimity are reference values for those who, representing citizens, are engaged in political activity. On too many occasions we find parliamentary chimeras, but it is not always so. Tuesday at the Congress of Deputies was not so. Before yesterday, the parliamentary groups agreed on an initiative to contribute together to providing effective solutions that would help to form a genuine state agreement on asylum and refuge. In that spirit they discussed a non-law proposal of the Socialist Party, and were able to reach a unanimous agreement; no one opposed. In the same spirit, the Basque People's Group today addresses the issue of refugees, which addresses Bildu's non-law proposal. On Tuesday, parliamentary groups committed themselves to excluding asylum from the confrontation of parties, to incorporating dialogue and consensus into the decision-making process, and to ensuring maximum institutional loyalty, cooperation and collaboration between administrations, always prioritizing reception and integration. While this was happening, three refugees were hiding in a refrigerator truck in Hernani. That's the raw reality. In the face of the dramatism, the scale and the significance of the humanitarian crisis that is overtaking us all, but which we have a legal and ethical obligation not to disagree, I appeal to consensus also in the Basque Parliament. Responding diligently, responding effectively, anticipating events, ultimately leading, is desirable in any government. But there is nothing wrong with civil society being the one to point out and manifest, as the Basques have done, how they want their politicians to represent them. Our citizens, who are represented here by all of us, do not expect us to engage in debates and declarations of moral and ideological superiority from one front to another. Not on this subject. There are hundreds of thousands of people fleeing horror and war, with avalanches of refugees who have called into question Europe's very raison d'être as never before. Fifteen days ago, we had the opportunity to learn from the Commission on Human Rights, Equality and Citizenship about the initiatives being promoted by the Basque Government, together with the other institutions and social organizations in the third sector working in the field of reception of asylum seekers, development cooperation organizations and those working in the field of immigration. Councillor Toña did not spare any explanation in the committee. Starting from the fact that the reception of refugees is the responsibility of the General Administration of the State, we were informed in detail of everything that belongs to the Basque Government and to all the Basque public administrations in the management of this crisis, giving importance to the civic foundation and practical rigour for reasons of legality, humanity and responsibility, without partisanism or paternalism, sensationalism, propaganda or demagoguery. Today's proponent of the initiative we are discussing was already wondering whether we could work together with the Basque Government by finalizing this committee, and having heard the explanations. Well, reaching consensus and disembarking this issue from political confrontation. That would be an excellent contribution from this House. But you're going to stop it. He has preferred to unburden himself ideologically and not join the consensus. But that unanimity we could do as our co-religionaries did in the Congress of Deputies before yesterday. Even the December electoral horizon did not avoid that good and responsible disposition of all. Let's be consistent today. The amendment tabled by my group refers to that agreement, nothing more or less. Why and why turn him from here just two days later? It wouldn't make any sense. Our citizens consider that accentuating differences is something inherent in our dedication, which is part of our idiosyncrasy. It's the political game. But there are issues, such as the displacements of thousands of people who, fleeing terror and war in their countries of origin, seek security, freedom and human rights on our continent, which deserve a solid and undisturbed response. Tragedy, despair, uprootment, death, are directly appealing to our consciences. Just thinking that in this massive exodus around 8,000 children find themselves alone, without their families, increases the anguish of the societies we are forced to react without delay. The Basques, united and demanding, have formed a public opinion attentive to the initiatives and responses that are being adopted since Euskadi. No one discusses that the dimension and derived from the problem make it difficult to tackle. Measures are needed at all levels, from staff to international, through local, foral, autonomous and European. And those measures cannot be anything but spontaneous, but they are short, medium and long-term, here and in the countries of origin. As far as the Basque Government is concerned, I would like to read out one of the ten points which constitute the agreement signed unanimously on Tuesday in the Congress of Deputies and to which today, through the amendment to the whole that I defend, we would like to join the Basque Parliament. And I want to read it textually, because it is up to us in very concrete things. This point reads: "The response given to the reception and integration needs of refugees, new numbers of arrivals and the European Union's forecasts of relocation and resettlement must be adapted, under the coordination of the inter-ministerial group set up for this purpose and with the participation of autonomous communities and local entities in the field of their competences, through the Sectoral Conference on Immigration and in accordance with the fourth additional provision of Law 12/2009 of 30 October, which regulates the right of asylum and subsidiary protection". And at that point it then makes a few concrete conclusions, five or six, in which it speaks specifically of health issues, schooling, social services, integration... in short, of everything that will touch us to realize and commit once the refugees come to be among us. All that was agreed on Tuesday unanimously in the Congress is important, but this point and all its concretions is the one that will test the management and leadership capacity of the Basque Government, and it is the one that as Basque parliamentarians will touch us to control. We know that an interdepartmental commission and an interinstitutional commission are already under way, which has to respond to these needs and to these health, social and educational rights, of all those refugees who finally arrive in Euskadi. It is a work with capitals, which dignifies us all and reconciles us with our status as public officials at the service of the Basques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Next, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u64	Yes, thank you, President. Unfortunately, all the good things that we decide to do from Euskadi on this issue, being important, will not be enough, nor will it serve to solve the tragedy of the refugees. Obviously, it is better to listen to and read progressive and human rights-friendly proposals than to heal and react on the issue, but it will be of no use if we fail to ensure that a truly united European Union implements effective and ambitious measures to address the urgent problems that affect thousands of people, and that it also acts with unbreakable insight and conviction where the causes of these dramas occur. The decisions we make here can help, but localist, local or isolated decisions are not going to be enough. What is needed is a common European immigration and asylum policy, which is humanitarian, respectful of human rights and international law. I mean, just what we don't have. Unfortunately, we are far from achieving a common European policy. As long as we fail to achieve this and suffer the insolidity and nationalism of certain states, there will be no solution. Today in Europe, these past days, it is proving that Cerril nationalism is not only bad for Europe: it is disastrous for Europe, for Europeans, and also for refugees. What we can say and do here to alleviate the refugee drama will be fine, but it won't be enough. The same is true of certain symbolic pronouncements, such as naming certain cities as refuge cities. All right, and less so, and they can even serve to change certain political measures that have been driven from certain countries in our environment, our environment, and even from the European Union as a whole, but, as has been said, the problem is global, and global decisions must be made. By the way, it is worth stressing, for no one to forget, something that we should not even have to say but that, apparently and heard from certain Basque, Spanish and European leaders... Refugees flee from poverty, hunger, death, terrorism, war and human rights violations. And, therefore, it is the democratic, ethical, political and legal obligation of the Basque, Spanish and European democratic institutions to do whatever is necessary to provide them with all the help they need and deserve. In this regard, it should be pointed out and denounced that the initial attitude of the Spanish Government was, to say the least, scarred and lazy, and that only the exemplary response of thousands of Basque, Spanish and European citizens has succeeded, at least in part, in correcting. We point out at the moment what were the seven initial errors of the Spanish Government: we accuse the Government of insensitivity, myopia, lack of leadership, incoherence, political incapacity, anti-Europeanism and improvisation. It is not a question of seeking the difference between political parties; it is a question of making political criticism of the Government in office. In any case, we hope that, in fact, especially the response given by thousands of citizens has changed the initial views of the Government of Spain, and that from now on it may be up to date. We can remember our own history: Basques and Spaniards had to emigrate fleeing violence, dictatorship, misery, persecution and the lack of freedoms. Perhaps in this way we can raise awareness of hearts that are initially insensitive, and that are placed in the place of the refugees who knock at our door. In any case, this is an eminently political problem, and political measures must therefore be taken to resolve it. Thus, we need inescapably a united, stronger Europe that moves towards a political union that forever banishes the selfish, short-sighted and insolidary nationalism of certain countries. And a common, effective, generous, open, human rights-friendly European immigration and asylum policy that complies with international law. UPyD has presented several initiatives in the European Parliament and in the Congress of Deputies. In addition to the above, we have also advocated the application of dissuasive sanctions against Member States which do not fulfil their obligations with regard to the right to asylum, or the implementation of an urgent plan to strengthen the integrated foreign and defence policy. International behaviour in Iraq, Libya and Syria was full of mistakes. Europe must act with one voice, in a comprehensive offensive that includes diplomacy, cooperation and development. This means a rethinking of European immigration and foreign policy. We also call for the full implementation of articles 13 and 14 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which set out the right of everyone to leave any country and to return, and the right to seek and enjoy asylum in the event of persecution. Or the creation of a permanent relocation mechanism that is active in emergency situations such as the present, a humanitarian corridor that guarantees refugees access to safe countries; the conversion of the Dublin asylum system into a common immigration policy, and the establishment of operational cooperation relations only with third countries that respect the rights of asylum-seekers, refugees or immigrants. An urgent study of the economic and social impact of the establishment of refugee resettlement areas within and outside the European Union. Or convert Frontex into a European agency with its own funds and equipment. And speed up the process for the processing and granting of asylum visas in the European Union, and provide more staff and increase the budget of the agencies. Or invest in protocols of good practice for the integration of refugees into their host territories, and facilitate family reunification of refugees with relatives abroad. Or cooperation between the European Union and the states with social actors in the implementation, implementation and monitoring of immigration support policies, and so many other things that can and should be done. And, obviously, act and make decisions at source. Without resolving what happens there, there is no possible solution. Finally, there are many things that can and must be done from the Basque municipalities, from the Basque Government, from the Government of Spain and from the European Union. In particular, we will be careful to see what exactly the Basque Government is doing. Mrs. Urrea was quoting Saramago, and she's fine. I quote Carlos Martínez Gorriarán, who is a UPyD deputy in the Congress of Deputies, when yesterday he said, before yesterday, that "it is about defending and applying the idea that the other in the background is just like me. Even if it is not the same in talent, fortune or birth, it certainly is from the point of view that it is a human being." And I also quote Beatriz Becerra, who is an MEP for UPyD, when she said, "Personalism is not an option. Party or electoral interests are not an option. The aging and ensimimated cave is not an option. The use of exceptionality to suspend Schengen and pressure reluctant colleagues is not an option. Short-term solutions, ridiculous and temporary numbers to save the face, are not an option. Slow and unjustifiably complicated negotiations, outdated before even the most inoperative outcome, are not an option. Waste of national interest, localist myopia, the intolerable violation of European guiding principles, are not an option. The wires, the tear gas, the water cannons, the mezquinas auctions of reception quotas, are not an option." We must therefore change the policies that are being implemented from different European countries, and we must move towards a common policy that resolves this drama that obviously affects us all. Those who come are human beings, those who are here are also human beings; therefore, we are basically the same.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u65	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good noon. It's time for us to talk about a drama today, a negative conclusion that we almost saw in Hernanin yesterday, and in the end everything went well. The European Union is ultimately facing important challenges, among which there is a human tragedy. Despair, thousands of thousands of people escaping from the terrible effects of armed conflicts in Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan, and many other African villages. The size which this drama took in the last few years has not been known to our continent. From the World War. It is a global problem, a complex and multiple nature, to come to more and more European Union. And this problem compromises what we admire most in the world: human life. However, the dysanthema, however, and yet, as a result of the difficulties, the xenophobia and populists are making a move, bringing danger to the Union itself and to the space of Schengen. This humanitarian crisis is to be requested to answer to the authorities and governments of the several States of the European Union in an active manner and with respect to human justice and solidarity. Unfortunately, the last few months and the last few weeks we've seen on the summits and what we've seen on TV has been a complete disgrace to all of us. The arrival of the rebels in a massive manner affects all European countries, but the states cannot give an answer in an isolated manner to overcome the problem. At the same time, the efforts established by the Union of Europe have been bad in the presence of the migratory waves which have reached it. Knowing this new reality is a complex solution, it is intolerable to the painful silence of the European Union and the political authorities of several governments. The solution of the problem requires necessary measures, but even those who will arrive at this dramatic phenomenon which seems to be going on for a long time with the manufacturing European measures. It is clear, therefore, that the European Union is to build a political manchunistary agenda, which will afford rational and logical attention to this serious problem. This political agenda ought to be founded on the value of the inspired and nourished European soul: in humanity, in solidarity and in self-interest. These flowers have made European space an attractive goal for people who are suffering horrors from wars and wars. These stocks are, moreover, the regulations made in the Treatise of the European Union, and in the letter of the fundamental rights of the European Union. It must be understood that the European Union ought to take the necessary measures for the execution of these principles. The only answer is a common European policy in the area of the asylum and the immigration. This migration stream produced by conflict and by the watering of human rights cannot be answered by wire fences and military persecutions, and by a trade fee to those who are to escape alive. I therefore agree with the censure of the European Union and of several members of the State, but I would rather know what each of us proposes from this point of view. What do we do from Basques? What help can we extend? What solution can we find and arrange the situation of the refugees here, Euskkadin? In this country, too, there have been thousands of euccantes, who have been driven out of the country for different reasons, or had to become a political exile. And most of us, or at least, are in memory of the same situation as that which he had known in the past from Euská. Last week, as I have said, the head physician of the Ángel Toñas asked for a presentation at the Human Rights Committee, and explained to us the major steps that have been taken so far. I'm not going to repeat the whole scene, but here it was clearly seen how an answer has been given to this crisis from Euskia. A humanitarian response to a human crisis where the dignity of a person is fully considered and respected. As he emphasized it, and though it was legally the state's jurisdiction, he wanted to plan a plan from Euskka. The chief physician came to answer some important questions. He asked: What are we going to do? What are our duties? What for? What can we do here, together with the Basques, the institutions and the associations? And how? What can we do to face this challenge? All the organizations (Eujok, fordunities, Eudels, City Councils, and so many foreign Government institutions) agreed together what and how to do here. Eta Sailburuak esaten zuen moduan, "In the management of this crisis is as important the civic foundation as the practical rigor". Eta galdetzen zuen: "Why should we welcome these refugee populations?". Hor hiru printzipio aipatzen zituen: "By a principle of humanity. We have a human and humanitarian duty of solidarity. This means providing assistance to those in an extreme situation of suffering, need or emergency." Bigarrenik, "For a principle of responsibility. We have a duty to assume our own shared responsibility in the defence of human dignity and human rights, as well as the political and social institutional commitment derived from it." Esaten zuen, baita ere, "For a principle of legality. We have a duty to comply with international law. In this context, particularly with the 1951 Geneva Convention, article 14 of the Declaration of Human Rights and article 18 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union." Doesn't she have a dena? "With seriousness, measure and discretion. We reject any form of demagogic, sensationalistic, propagandistic, partisan or paternalistic use of drama and its victims." Baita ere, "with rigour, which implies seeking agile, efficient, viable and sustainable alternatives, with full awareness that medium- and long-term permanence responses are necessary". Eta, baita ere, "from a vision of globality, acting on the consequences here, in Euskadi, and there", have, Syrian, Jordanian, Eritrean and Lebanon. And in that way, I think we'll be able, as he said, to come to Erdissa. And I would like to remark that to those who deserve it ought to be criticised, but that we must hereafter perform plans and actions on our part. This problem deserves an answer, and we must give an answer from here too. So we introduced a full correction to the other proposal like EH Collect, and finally with the other teams, the Socialist team, Popular, and UPD, got a middle course. We may, perhaps, in the second turn, explain what we require, but we ask the European Union to fulfil our duties, to accept the quapos or shares of the Spanish Government, though illegal, and to defend ourselves at the next summit, and to form a common policy which the European Union must require. But, too, we're asking you to organize and accept the Basque Muncher in an efficient way, the reception of the refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u67	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u68	Thank you. Well, I'll start in order of interventions. As for the Socialist Party, which referred to that institutional declaration proposed by the Basque Nationalist Party after our non-legislative proposal, of course we have already said it on the Board of Spokesmen, and we repeat it again here: we were not going to approve an institutional declaration, as we have not entered this compromise amendment, with a proposal that addresses the consequences of what is happening but not the causes. Therefore, something partial did not fit precisely within our principles. You referred to the human value of refugees, not to disrespect, to restore humanity's dignity, and I ask you: What about the detention centres for foreigners? That, I remind you, the Socialist Party and the People's Party voted favourably not only to approve the detention centre for foreigners, but that they also went from six to eighteen months in these concentration camps, where people who are supposed to be migrants are held, because they are given an expulsion order, but they are potential refugees and asylum seekers. Where are they in those moments? Moreover, if they had truly considered this to be a political priority, they would have voted in favour of doing so before, presenting this non-legislative proposal in a proper plenary for that purpose. Don't wait until today. But, ladies and gentlemen, you are also contradicting each other, because in one of the points of the compromise amendment you are talking about an action plan as soon as possible. Indeed, we agree. And why have they not accepted that this issue should be discussed before, before asking the Basque Government for an action plan in this area? The People's Party talks about the unanimous agreement on Tuesday in Congress. Indeed, this group in the Congress of Deputies voted in favour, and I will tell you why it voted in favour. He voted in favour although, as you very well know, and it is a brutal criticism of what is happening, he voted in favour because the social organizations of the Spanish State required this parliamentary group to have unanimity in this proposal, which we referred to them in advance for analysis. That there should be unanimity, because there is one point above all, which refers to asylum legislation in the Spanish State... To have tools with which to continue to ask the governments in charge, because since the adoption of Regulation 12/2009, regulation of the right to asylum and protection, both the Socialist Party and the People's Party have done absolutely nothing to transpose these directives or approve this asylum law. And he was also telling us, in fact, about the three Kurdish-Iraqi refugees, the Iraqi Kurdistan, who came to the same time that a declaration was adopted that went beyond, breaking political differences. It is necessary to mention that, with all my respect, but it is an absolute cynicism, when the People's Party was speaking precisely..., it did not even speak of refugees: a spokesman for his party spoke of jihadists directly. And it's not just that, it's also enough to take a walk through the Ceuta and Melilla fences to see the systematic violation of human rights that is being seen there. We have seen this from a Human Rights Committee in this Parliament. They are also responsible for the 15 deaths of refugees on Tarajal beach. And, therefore, it is that, of course, when we talk about going all to one and in a unanimous way on a question like this there can be no hypocrisy ahead. We have to call things by their name. And in that sense, speaking also of political coherences, of course in the committee we are prepared to cooperate with the adviser, because we think that it was precisely what we had to focus on, to approve a proposal – which we did and commented on – about supporting this proposal that was to be carried out, and that we were also going to be vigilant with it, so that it would be implemented in the way it was expressed in the committee, with which we tuned. But in this case there was no will, because he wanted to go beyond it and for us it was a red dot to speak precisely of the causes of the conflict, and not only of its consequences. It also seemed very important to us, and even though they wanted to avoid bringing this issue into the debate, because we have to have a political debate, because that is why we are in this House, to address not only the consequences and to tell each other "Poor refugees who come and have to welcome them", but indeed to talk about our political responsibilities, the responsibilities we have. And also in this autonomous community, ladies and gentlemen, because we are talking, for example, about coherence in public policies. And when we are talking about aid being allocated to Syria, we would like to know exactly what it is going to be allocated to, in what way. And I give you a clear example, and that is that, for example, as we allocate resources, humanitarian aid for Gaza, yet in the Basque Country strategy, Israel appears as a preferred partner, from which there is literally much to learn. Therefore, we want things to be very clear. And also another issue that seems to us to be of fundamental importance is that we not only have to open our eyes to the people who are coming. Many have arrived, there are 120,000 people in the Spanish State in the bureaucratic limbo, in the legal limbo, pending an asylum application; therefore, without full rights and access to services, and we all know them. And also in this autonomous community, and from the social organizations that work in this autonomous community we are told that it is also very important to look at those refugees who are living in this autonomous community. We cannot excuse ourselves in this lack of competence in the area of migration policy and asylum, when we certainly have in our hands the possibility of welcoming the people who are coming, who have arrived and who will continue with us and with us in decent conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Basque Socialists. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u70	Thank you. Yes, Mrs. Urrea. We are here debating this because you wanted to bring this, indeed, to the ring of confrontation. And you have come here, as usual, to give us ideology, your ideology. I would like to remind you that ideology is the interpretation of the world, and we all have an ideology, what happens is that some of us admit criticism and debate about our ideology because it is more open, and others have a more closed ideology, like yours, in which that interpretation you have of the world has no room for debate or criticism. But there's more. We, the Socialists, accompany our ideology with an important load of mentality, which is an open system that configures the behaviors that help to manage the problems that the world has. That is what we wanted to raise here, because we believe that this issue, this problem, what it requires is more mentality than ideology, what it requires is more desire to make that ideological debate, what it requires is support from everyone and not confrontation. And you in this case don't bring anything, you won't add up. He intended to take us to a debate, and he was left alone, you. The rest of us agreed. And of course my ideology on the subject is not the same as that of the nationalists or that of the popular, or that of UPyD, but I do come with an open mind to try to get the problem handled. Our mentality is open, ideology is left to us to support our mentality, to support our management of this problem. And this, Mrs Urrea, I believe is what is important, what we should all have done, what should have been done already with the institutional declaration we were calling for. He has come to make ideology, a closed ideology, an interpretation of the world that is his own, which admits no criticism or debate. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u71	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Euscal Group Popula representative. Madame Ruiz, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u72	Thank you, President. Well, I'm glad I came up with a compromise amendment; I'm sorry I couldn't be unanimous. The fourth point refers expressly to the agreement reached in the Congress of Deputies, and that is what we had tabled as an amendment to the whole, with which we were satisfied. We have all agreed, but I would like to refer to the fifth and final point of the amendment, because it is the one that is expressly confined to what the Basque Government is doing. The rest in the end is fine, but they are appeals to other institutions where we have no direct capacity to influence. I am focusing on this point because we already know that the Basque Government has been set up with these two commissions, the interdepartmental and an inter-institutional. We also know that the Basque Government participates in the Sectoral Conference on Migration, within the Ministry of Employment and Social Security, and within it a much more operational, much more concrete, tangible working group has already been set up, where the directors-general of all the autonomous communities, the municipalities, NGOs and the central Government are integrated. We are also working, in a loyal and coordinated way, to do something important and urgent, which is a map of resources to respond not only to the reception of refugees, but also to what should be the ultimate goal of all, which is the true integration between us. The Basque Government and the parliamentary groups for what we have to work for are to realize those human, social and budgetary resources, which are not too little work, so that we can integrate the refugees we are going to host. We can use, as others have done, this rostrum to reproduce sessions and debates, with more or less megalomania, that take place in other chambers. We do it all the time, don't we? But I do not want that to undermine the debate and parliamentary control of all the measures that are going to have to be taken here, which are going to have to be adopted and implemented here. It should be borne in mind that this interdepartmental commission is affecting the general secretariats of Lehendakaritza, Public Administration and Justice, Health, Security, Education, Finance and Finance, Employment and Social Policy. That gives us the measure of how many policies and initiatives will have to be implemented in a coordinated and effective, rapid and diligent manner. And that does not seem to me to be necessary for us to treat here as Basque parliamentarians. I say that this is going to be the day-to-day, that we are going to have to deal with now, but not today for tomorrow, but also in the medium term (six months, a year), this is something that will require structural measures. Of course, as Europeans, Spaniards or citizens of the world, we can have our opinion, our judgment and our ability to criticize what is happening and where it leaves us all this humanitarian crisis, but also – I think that is the fundamental thing – we have duties and obligations already. And therefore, as Basques we have assumed responsibilities and obligations that depend on us, on our management, on our resources, on our budgets, on our officials, on our political impulse, on our rulers. And, from the People's Group, what we will do is help to promote, to coordinate that, and to do so from loyalty and seriousness, also controlling the action of the Government. Appointments from Saramago and Martínez Goriarran have been read. Both could be cited, one as a novelist and another as a philosopher very used to thinking, by the way. But I remember, on a day like today, Stéphane Hessel, which is one of the most exciting things that happened to me in my political career, when I had the opportunity to chat with him. After all, he was the last survivor of the Universal Declaration of the Rights of Man and the Citizen. And he was telling me that what really makes a society rich is not economic resources, but solidarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro... He mustn't speak. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u74	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Urrea, the Basque Government does not need Parliament to urge you to act, because before anything is decided in this Parliament the Basque Government was already acting. And I didn't even hear you, not a solution, just a review. As I have shown before, the position of the European Union and its political authorities is unacceptable. I am not opposed to criticizing the European Union. On the contrary, I agree with you, that Europe, and so many members of the state, have not fulfilled their duties, and the experience we have seen, was, as I have said before, shameful and shameful. To build walls and barriers is neither human nor dignified. We, the Basque ones, have been variously refugeed, and our parents or grandparents have known these severe situations before us, so that we do not accept them. We won't accept it! But I didn't come here to run around. "No vesto a frivolizar sobre themee, que me paire moy sera." And I think that, as far as you're concerned, the proposition is not very accurate. You confuse everything in a totum revolutum, and I think there's a point of seriousness missing it. Ángel Toña Sailburuak eskatzen zure testuan ez dago: "Rigor, seriousness, measure and discretion, rejecting any form of demagogic, sensationalistic, propagandistic, partisan or paternalistic use of drama and its victims". Zuk guztiz alderantziz egin dozu. And it's true that in this crisis of Europe, unfortunately and often, I'm the only one who hopes. And it's true that even Europe has had flaws in the time of colonialism. This is true, but, on the one hand, cannot be attributed to him all the affairs of the world, and on the other hand, you mention only Africa, and there seems to be no conflict, no war. And it's not true. Most of the refugees have recently come from Asia; they have come from Iraq, Syria, or Afghanistan. And we are concerned only with the tragedy of Syria, more than 200,000 dead and 12 million refugees. And what's behind the Syrian dictatorship? What's the Pardrian or the Protection? Russia. First of all, forty and fig years ago, with Hafez al-Assad and President Brezhnev of the Union and today with President Putin, protecting his son, Bashar al-Asad. And this week or this week, who's sending troops? You call it "el imperiorism,vido arma los insurgentes."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u75	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u76	I'm sorry, but the troops, the guns, and the plane are sending Russia away right now. And yesterday he was bombing, and we don't know whether Daessh or the rebels are against Bashar al-Assad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u77	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u78	The European Union and several members of the States will therefore have some defects in this war, no doubt, but also some other powers. And you don't say that. You don't mention the interest of Russia in the Tartus Naval base, so that's why Russia is the only way out in the Mediterranean. And that Putin is protecting his military base. We, as I said before, have agreed to a text with other parliamentary groups. And this is precisely where we demand that the European Union be filled with the principle of Communization of political Asyls and Imigrations. The Spanish Government requires that it be maintained in the presence of the rare meeting which follows that the European Union requires a common migration policy to begin, and, in the neighbourhood of the asylum, to apply to the whole European law of the system. In like manner, let the European Union accept the quadrangle of the refugees determined by the European Union. And we're asking "Esquilly" to do a plan of action, using his jurisdictions, with other institutions, which will allow him to receive the refugees of the Eukadin, and to enable emergency subsidies to ease the extreme hardships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u79	Thank you, Mr Aguire. The discussion is over. We'll put the original text of the EH Collectation As a Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters are 21; the opposites are 54; white; 0; abstentions are 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u80	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, Mistto-UPyD, the popular Euskal Group, the Sociists of the Basques and the Eucarias, will vote for the middle-line corrections that have been signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; Abstension, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u81	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Puntu honorara irritita, osoko bilkura etengo dut..., 15:15ak art? 15:30ak art. At one o'clock in the afternoon the meeting was interrupted at fifty-four. At three o'clock in the afternoon, and at thirty-one o'clock the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u82	Good afternoon. Five point in theme list: "Mortion, Maria del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Muntain de Munai, the members of the American laws of the Basque Groups, the definitions and purposes of the service of the teleportation. Discipline and final resolution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u83	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. The motion we tabled from the Group of the European People's Party is a result of the question we made to the Councilman in June concerning the tele-assistance service. We asked the advisor why Osatek, a public company entrusted with the management of the teleassistance service, says in his memory that teleassistance cherishes an almost unlimited potential development, when this service is specifically defined in a clear and concrete way in the Social Services Act. The Act specifies the instruments to promote and guarantee the right to social services. Promote and guarantee, not lend. One of them is teleassistance. And it is in this decree of teleassistance that it is defined as a technical support service, which allows users, through a telephone line and with a communication team, to have a service of permanent care 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, attended by people specifically prepared who can respond at certain times of emergency or a demand of the moment. Definition also contained in the document of the decree of the charter of services, which specifies that to fulfill the service must have a contact service, devices and terminals, a record of data, personal attention to ensure in case of need the presence at the place or at the home of the user. And what are the objectives? The objectives are to promote the permanence and integration in the family and social environment of people with a lack of autonomy and who may need supervision; to provide permanent connection with care networks that improve their quality of life and provide them with security (to provide permanent connection with care networks); and to provide support to the social and family support network that assumes the family care of users. If this is how the teleassistance service is defined in the service portfolio, it is not said here that it is the Administration that should take care of the user. It does not say that the Administration is the provider of care items. If we have defined clearly and concretely, by law, by decree, that the teleassistance service is a service through a telephone line through a communication team, how is it possible that the director of Osatek – he said in the House of Commons – and also the advisor the other day in the response to the inquiry, say that it is a service at home? No, it's not a home service. The service portfolio defines the teleassistance service and the home service. It's not a home service. Therefore, we cannot confuse those terms, because that leads us to do what does not belong. And if it is defined we will have to comply with what is defined in the law and in the decree. In the answer to the question, Mr. Counsellor said, "We do not want to be single providers of social and health services." It is that the Administration should not be a supplier, it should not be a supplier. I think there are terms that are worth adjusting to. You are being suppliers of elements: you have put smoke detectors, you have put gas detectors... All this in an opaque way, without a public contest. All this in an opaque way, without a public contest. This is what the advisor in the answer called "advanced teleassistance." Look, I'm sorry to tell you, but I think it's an intrusion. It's more of an opaque business, what you call "advanced teleassistance." I believe that they are overly limited in what is theirs, and it is unfair competition for sectors that supply these elements. Therefore, I do not think that is the right thing to empower the administration. I don't think that's what the law says, nor is it what the decree says, nor is it what the service portfolio says. We believe it is an intrusion into other activities that are suppliers, indeed, but the Administration cannot do it, and less opaquely, as it is being done. The service portfolio expressly states that the teleassistance service must offer permanent connection to the care networks, yes, but not be a provider, no. We need to improve quality and give safety to users, and they can be intermediaries, but not suppliers. This is not a market. This isn't a business. I think I'm well understood. It does not say that you, the Administration, should be the providers of the elements that bring security and quality of life to the user. This is what the Social Services Act, the Teleassistance Decree and the portfolio of services say, documents that are the result of an important agreement, first of this House of the Services Act, where there are contributions, amendments of the groups. It was not the will of the person who passed that law, which was this House, to make an advanced teleassistance, as you interpret. No, because, if not, it would be reflected. Nor from who made the decree, because, if not, it would be reflected. And neither did the one who agreed on the portfolio of services, which were the government and the deputies. And you should know that that was a process, a very long negotiation, and that every word has a why, and every coma as well, and every point as well. And what you call advanced teleassistance is not collected in the service portfolio. Therefore, I do not think it is for the Administration to enhance that. That is why we understand that things must be done in a manner that is in keeping with the law. The Councillor told me the other day that, of course, we sometimes criticize that we do not comply with anything, that the government does not comply with the law, that they complain that they do not get to do 100 percent of what the law says... Of course, and he says, "It's just that, of course, I now exceed the law and I'm criticized!". No, no, The law says what it says, and you have to conform to what the law has meant. And whoever passed that law, the regulator, is what they wanted to adjust. Therefore, when we go too far, we will first have to know and give an explanation of why, look at who I am harming, who will also have to look at it, and then we will first amend the law and then what we do will be rightfully adjusted. I therefore believe that is the responsibility of the Administration. We have tabled a motion, the groups have tabled amendments, and we have reached an agreement between the Socialist Group, the Basque Nationalist Group and the People's Group. The amendment says something that is very obvious, but, as is not being complied with, we will therefore stress it: We urge the Basque Government, the Department of Employment and Social Policy, "to ensure strict compliance with Decree 144/2011 of 28 June, which regulates the public service of tele-assistance, as well as article 72, tele-assistance service, of the portfolio of services and services of the Basque System of Social Services, especially as regards the definition, objectives and means with which the service must count, all in accordance with the inspiring principles of the Social Services Act 2008". We also ask the Government and the Department of Employment and Social Policy "to assume all their powers in relation to the teleassistance service". All its powers under the law, within the framework of the decree, within the framework of the portfolio of services. That the Department of Employment and Social Policy "ensure the procurement of the necessary services and the strict monitoring of compliance with the quality criteria laid down in the procurement, for the correct provision of the service". Guarantee, but not lend them. I think we at least interpret from the People's Group that we have to differentiate what it is to "guarante" from "borrow". That the Department of Employment and Social Policy "extend the implementation of the teleassistance service in rural areas without coverage, as well as in groups of people with disabilities and suffering from mental illness". I believe that you said this in the response to the inquiry, which were extending to these areas that have more difficulty and to another group of users, potentially users, but, well, some group has considered it opportune to be included in this motion as well, and to us it seemed good. I would really like when we talk about issues as sensitive as users, dependents, those who need support, and also support for families with dependents, to be sensitive, sensitive when it comes to meeting their needs and not exceeding ourselves either. First – something you said here the other day and that has been repeated – you value the quality of the service by the response given by the user. I think that is a parameter that represents very little in this case. Very little. The quality of service cannot be valued in this way. You should know, and I think you know, that these dependent people just make a call and that someone responds to them seems fantastic, because they probably have a lot of loneliness in the environment in many cases. And we can give a lot of examples. Therefore, I believe that there must be other parameters that determine the quality of the service, but not in particular the satisfaction of the user. Because to the user a caress, a good word, already seems satisfactory, and I don't think that's the goal of the service. I think it's okay, but it's something else. Then, when we talk about the assessment we give to the quality of service, we will have to establish other quality parameters. Because this one, really... touches me in my environment with older people, and this should not be the parameter on which we base the quality of service. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u84	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u85	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Pick up where we are. Very briefly, to say that on 1 July 2011, the Basque Government, in the hands of the Socialist Party at the time, definitively assumed the management of the teleassistance service. It then had a census of 23,738 users, according to the databases provided by the outlaws and the City Council of Vitoria. Not only was a tele-alarm replaced by a tele-assistance system; it also became a socio-sanitary system, allowing users, when they are chronic and also dependent, to have a single system of communication with the Administration through a technological platform that provides this tele-assistance service. The Department of Employment and Social Policy provides services through public society Osatek, which has the status of an instrumental medium and technical service of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. Decree 144/2011 regulates the entire tele-assistance system, which defines the care profiles of the service: persons over sixty-five years of age, minors in situations of recognized dependency, and persons with intellectual disabilities and degrees I and II of dependency, with physical disabilities, and persons with mental illness, including persons at risk of exclusion, i.e., risk of isolation and loneliness. In 2011, the Department of Employment and Social Affairs, led by Gemma Zabaleta, prepared a four-year service forecast document. It estimated for 2014 some 35,954 users and 7.83 % coverage, and for 2015, 37,751 people and 8,10 % coverage. According to the latest data provided by Osatek, in March 2015 34,400 people are being cared for, with a coverage level for people over sixty-five years of age of 7.68%. Since the Basque Government took over the competition in 2011 to date, the service has grown significantly, and has been highly valued among users and their families. All persons who have so requested have been offered to comply with the conditions required by the regulatory decree. And the budget allocations for the teleassistance service reflect this increase in coverage year by year. We Socialists value the public service for teleassistance, and we understand that the important thing is for the Department of Employment and Social Policy to ensure compliance with the 2011 regulatory decree of the teleassistance service; to assume its competence in relation to this service; to ensure that the services necessary for the correct provision of the service are contracted and that strict compliance with the quality criteria laid down in the recruitment is monitored, continuously assessing the satisfaction of both the staff employed and the users, and to continue to extend the service to uncovered rural areas, as well as to persons with disabilities and persons with mental illness. In this respect, we have drawn up the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group, and, well, it has been easy to reach an understanding with the rest of the groups that had submitted a text on the basis of the proposals that we also share. That has been amended by the spokesman for the People's Party, and for my part, therefore, nothing more. We thank you all, and we hope that the teleassistance service will continue to progress properly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u86	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u87	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. About the telegraph service, in this whole committee, as well as the Enplegu and the Society Committee, we've talked more than once in the past three years. According to what has been said, according to the law of the Social Services of Araba, Gipus, and Biscay, 2011, the service of service in the hands of aldududs and Gastian City had always been taken under the title of the Euskalk. As usual, the management of this service was given to the Televida GSR business by a lititation from UT GSR Televida. The position introduced by the popular team today, if we consider the earlier interaction and what we're saying right now, is rather concentrated, or proposes about functions which the discussion or telehelp should perform. And from our point of view, the main problem is not there right now. We must provide the proper care and care necessary to the principal persons, and for this we do not question the co-ordination and association of different institutions. After all, that's what we're talking about, what we call a social measure. And this is a challenge and we think it must be. But we believe that the condition of the law of the Social Services must now be questionable. It seems to us that it's unmixed, and that it's troubling. The decree of the wallet was agreed, but it remained standing, and the solace of the model continued to determine it too. And we believe that at the same time, the necessary resources and finances which must be at the Combats are unsolved, from our point of view. Things have to be done right, and today that's not the way it is. We shall, however, come to the subject from another point of view, and follow the disputes which preceded it, and the questions which are laid upon the table, and those which are not now directed. I want to remember that in May 2013, representatives of the workers of this service had been at the board of Eplegu and Polic Society to explain their situation and their service from their own point of view. On the one hand we saw that the conditions of the labourers were improper, and that it was necessary that the negotiations should be made, and that they should be encouraged. And on the other hand, from the time that M.M. took over the service and left it in the hands of a management company, we saw that the service's growing progressively smaller. It must be principally observed, as has been said before, that this service was largely developed by the division of Biscay. Even after the service stopped in his hands, we think he's been looking away. He has, indeed, praised the service several times, without expressing real reality and taking no precautions at all. It has been so, at least, until the workers were mobilized and accused of the situation. The contract, which regulates the conditions of labor, was made in July, after a great deal of difficulty, with many mutations. There have been improvements, but there are many left to improve, whether in the working conditions of the workers or in the service. There are not yet set user/ worker ratios around the service. This also is significant; it is not the first time: There were 80,000 workers in the biscay service, and now there are 115 workers for Araba, Biscay, and Gipuzia, or around there, where there are more than 35,000 users, and I tie up the necessary duties and duties here when they have spread and increased. The number of users has multiplied in more or less, but the number of workers has been very far from this proportion, and this is not logical to us at all. Consequently, the attention which is offered to users has been reduced to various services, which is a reality. It is impossible to provide with almost the same number of workers, or with a little more than three times the same service, with the same care. Besides, it has been mentioned that in the answer of the interpenetration the chief physician said that there were challenges of 2015-2016, "The la telealtación de la teleascentencia en lastros ruranes sin coberatura, acanzar coctividas de discapidad y mental que necesención sanitaria, certain en elgar, decentors dehumo, gase, etcé." This is what you've brought into the middle of the road today, even among the teams you've agreed to. More reason from our point of view to look at the number of staff. And considering all that has been said, we have made certain precise propositions in our correction. First of all, it seems to us that we must end with the sterilization policy, everything cannot be sterilized. There are some services that you're supposed to do from the right management, and from our point of view, this is one of them. And this is our first proposition: We propose, instead of assigning it to externalpresions in the next stage, to regulate the telehelp service through direct management. Besides, strernization does not sometimes contribute to a better service, and it does not bring it in from the South, for the most part to be worthy of the working conditions of the 1990 workers. And we've seen it clearly in this teleascentia service and we've been clearly seeing it since it started to work like this. After all, the quality of services and the conditions of labourers have a direct connection; they are for us two faces of the same coin. The second proposal, from our point of view, is that we must establish control, and that we propose a permanent committee. A permanent commission, a board between the administration and the co-ordination of the company, where others will be made evaluations, but also the opinion of the workers will be considered. Not just the users, like so far, but also the people who work there. It's important to be aware that we're talking about public control, because these companies only work on public money. And I want to remember that in the budgets of 2015 there was a million more euros placed for this service and that there was no control at the moment, on which conditions people were working, and not even for what they were using that money. I mean, it went from 6 million to 7 million in 2015. And by this means the control of the service, the control of what is being done in it, is indispensable. But for that, we think there must be a board, a transparent, and a part of those who work in it. The third point, the ratio. This also I have mentioned before: you have to establish a ratio between workers and users. And as I have said, I shall not repeat the reason of it. And the last thing we think is that new TV service assignments have to be inserted into social clauses. The other is, to make sure, the contract of labour is applied, for the subrogation of workers, and the conditions of labour are adequate, and, after all, all the other parts which appear in social clauses. This dispute will also be disputed in this legislature, in the proposition of the law, but it appears to us that it is unavoidable for all public administrations to establish services, works, precise conditions, and certain things which are primary. Since time has exhausted me, I shall give my opinion of the middle course or the view of the EH Collect in the second round, and explain our position in the second round.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief physician, good evening to all. Our law of social services confirms a pattern of attention. His peculiarity is in the community's focus, which gives him the privilege of keeping people around their normal lives. With this model we try to respond to the needs, demands and expectations, starting from an integral vision of the person in his/her environment and seeking continuity in care. In this context, teleassistance is seen as a basic and constantly evolving service. This is the object of the teleassistance decree that we are dealing with today: to pursue solutions for an independent life, encouraging aspects related to care and personal autonomy. And today we are dealing with this motion, as has already been said, as a result of the question that Mrs López de Ocariz made to Sailburu Toña in the past full of control on 26 June. After careful consideration of the text of the motion, we must say that we were not far from your text, Mrs López de Ocariz. And, to tell the truth, we amend that text more for a matter of style and to underline a continuity effect, in the understanding that so far the Basque Government has been doing, indeed, what we urge to continue to do. The contributions to it from the Socialist Party, through Mrs Sarasua's amendment, are in line with the challenges that the adviser has already developed for us in his inquiry, and we also think these contributions are very good, and I believe that the contribution from our bench, framing the text in the inspiring principles of our Social Services Act, is essential in the future. In this regard, by referring to the text presented by EH Bildu, from our point of view, it defocusses the debate, although there is a certain question that may be interesting, in terms of quality, which was actually also reflected in the answer to the question by the adviser. We believe, in short, that it is a good final text, and we believe that it is a text that does not fit the speech made by Mrs López de Ocariz. As I say, what really surprises us and gives us some concern is the meaning of the speech that Mrs López de Ocariz made last July 26 and that she has repeated again today. With that speech, Mrs López de Ocariz, proposes a leap back to the past, a retreat to scenes more than forty years ago. Build your speech, Mrs López de Ocariz, using only three articles of the teleassistance decree, three: the 2, the 5 and the 8, referred, as you well say, to the definition, objectives and means of the teleassistance service. And based on them he comes to the conclusion that the government acts – and I quote – by jumping the law, jumping the decree, jumping the portfolio of services. He hasn't developed them a little further today. No, Mrs. López de Ocariz, you're very wrong. The Government has always complied with the law, first and foremost. What has happened to you is that you have framed this matter very badly. First of all, you've forgotten the whole body of the norm. You forgot to read the decree before you filed this initiative. He has forgotten to read the previous to the operative part, the equivalent in the decrees to the presentation of reasons of the laws, where the essential fit of this decree is reflected with our Social Services Act 2008. You've forgotten the object of the law. You've forgotten article 1. You have forgotten the scope of Article 3. You have forgotten the modality, the funding model and the content of the service, articles 4, 6 and 7. He has forgotten the people, yes, he has forgotten the people, the people for whom this service is intended, with their rights and duties, as set out in articles 9 to 12. He has forgotten almost everything, even the transitional, additional and final provisions. Everything. That's why, when you ask the counselor and ask him – and I quote – "Where does it appear that from the teleassistance service you have to do health services?", to continue saying "I ask you, Mr. Counsellor, because we have not seen it", then I can answer you calmly. It's normal that today, in the interpellation, it's normal that I haven't seen him. Normal that I haven't seen it! If the articles had been read, other articles beyond articles 2, 5 and 8, I am sure that I would not have asked this question in the inquiry or this speech here today. Please read Article 7. Still, in your three favorite articles we can also find it. Reading with a little attention, and if we go to the definition to which you have referred again today, we find that in the definition it speaks of "situation of social necessity or emergency". It does not speak of situations of social need and emergency, nor of situations of social need or social emergency: "situations of social need or emergency". We already have an entrance to the health field, no doubt! In the objectives of the decree, of its favorite article 5, favoring permanence as the first objective; in objective number 2 tells us of offering integral care (offering integral care, what is integral care?)... Even the last of the objectives, article 5, 4 tells us about providing support to the socio-family environment. That is, even beyond integral care, go to the family, even go to their environment. "Where is he," you said, "that we haven't seen him?". There it is, in all the norm, in all the decree. An essential issue around the application of the rules is interpretation. It is a process by which the sense of a norm is established. You, Mrs López de Ocariz, have relied on a grammatical interpretation of only three articles, which is totally inadequate. If we make the most basic interpretation of the norm's purpose and link it to its reference laws, primarily the Social Services Act – and in this sense what we have contributed to the text we have passed – we have no problem understanding that this decree helps to consolidate the model of care characterized by a community approach, whose priority lies in the maintenance of people in their usual living environment. This Community approach, which is fully accepted by all the groups in this Parliament, including its own, goes beyond previous, obsolete systems, systems that set up watertight compartments where people were taken and where they were provided with services, people who were away from their environment. We had an example, a visit (you couldn't be, because you were from the Health Commission), and we went to the hospital in Zaldibar, and they taught us, they told us about the case of a person who, at seven years old, entered there and left with seventy-seven, two years ago. A drama. And the system took him there and there gave him all the services. You with the interpretation you do go back to those schemes, take a leap back to the past, over seventy years old. You reproach the government for going there further in law enforcement. It's the first time I've seen a government reproach for employing 120%, for going further. You confuse jumping the law, breaking the law, with developing the law. An example of jumping the law has it very close (of failing to comply with the law): is what your government does with our Statute. An example of developing the law is what the Basque Government does with the teleassistance service, which in its initial stages complied with the strictly normative, but – and Mrs Sarasua did not remind them – once that initial compliance has been achieved, the norm is interpreted according to its logical and systematic dimension, the relationship it has with other norms of its environment, and according to the ultimate goal it pursues. Have you wondered what final purpose this norm, this decree pursues? "Pertsonak helburu", the person at the center of the action. Comprehensive action. That's what he's after! Comprehensive action, comprehensive care. Health care through the teleassistance service? Yes, of course. Yeah. And all the services that we are able to provide to enhance the care and autonomy of people who have these needs. That is why, after meeting the rule, which we have complied with, which the Government has complied with, we go forward with that compass (the end of the law), and not backwards, as you propose. And we move forward with new challenges: what services can we bring to those people without taking them out of their environment. This question has already been answered by the Sailburu in their appearance, the challenges for 2015-2016: the implementation of teleassistance in rural areas without coverage, those areas where there is no coverage; reaching groups with disabilities – Mrs Sarasua also reminded us, let's go there – reaching groups of disabled people and mental health who need health care; home safety; advanced teleassistance; support for caregivers. And all this keeping the quality values recognized and so well valued by our citizens. Forward, following the spirit of our Social Services Act. I would like, in conclusion, to quote briefly the councillor: "We have fulfilled the law," said the councillor, "we have filled it, we have completed it even with what is not written in the law." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u90	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing the teams that haven't been running, Mr. Maniro... He mustn't speak. Passing on the answer shift, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u91	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Aiartza... Well, I'll leave it to the end. I would like to thank Mrs Sarasua for her support for this initiative. And to tell EH Bildu's spokesman that, in fact, some of the things he has said about workers, the quality of employment and other things he has referred to, we could talk about in another initiative, really, because I felt that some things are worth treating and being able to agree on some things, or be able to move forward, or... Anyway, I think it's worth at least discussing. I therefore believe that it was not the subject of this initiative, and we felt it more appropriate to separate it. It has not been another matter, nor that we did not find some of the things that were reflected in your amendment interesting. Mr. Aiartza, I've retreated a lot. Look, I'm going to make it very clear: teleassistance must be prevented from becoming a business opportunity around the dependent from the administration. And I'm going to tell you more clearly: from the PNV behind. Do you want me to make this clear to you? Can I get you anything else? The law does not allow it to be a business opportunity, but, if we talk about exceeding the law, it can be anything. What do we have a law for, if we're going to make an over-limitation of the law? Listen, then, look, let's break it, and do whatever you want. He tells me about the rural areas. What do you say? What health care needs in rural areas? But how many times have we said in this House to expand health services in rural areas, and you have told us that everything is supercovered, there is no need! Now, if Osatek takes it, yes. If Osatek takes him, there's a need. Hey, can you explain what we're talking about? What's going on? In the rural area, with a population of over sixty-five years old, in many cases and in many municipalities of 70% or more, Osatek will take the medicines, diapers... What do we do, shut down the pharmacy in that rural area, for example? I mean, do you know what we're talking about? Do you know what we're talking about? A monopoly around teleassistance directed by you. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u92	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Lady Sarah must not speak. Arrido, the EH Collector? Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u93	Thank you. I don't think we're out of our minds, or that we're in another discussion, and I'm saying the same to the representative of the Popula. After all, we in reality...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u94	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u95	We're making proposals to face non-existent ones. What we are asking for is that the quality of service and the functions to serve properly in the service of telehelp, and for this purpose I attach the huddle with the latest interference, Luciana, our first intention is to return to direct management. You see, then, the difficulties we have mentioned would be greater, if there are any. On the other hand, I have already said that I should mention how we treat him, and what we see in the medium which the other groups have agreed on, nothing new is presupposed by this middle course from our point of view. It doesn't import anything in a way to make a progress or step forward in the telehelp service. He's not asking for anything besides what he's doing today. It's the same thing. In the first and second place, you only ask to comply with the law. You remember, "Let him know the law is done," that's the word you use, the 2011 law, the wallet bill, preparations, and even the Law of Social Services 2008. That's what he's asking you to do. That's what any government and I'm supposed to do. On the second point, let him take his jurisdictions and his service for help. I don't know what else to do since tomorrow if this is accepted, here. At the third point, in a certain sense, he must restore service and quality. There, you seem to understand, or so I would like to think, that there are some non-profits in the quality of the service, and that you doubt whether necessary services are hired or not. I don't know if that's the way to interpret it, because there's no specification at all. And that's the last point, isn't it? We'll open it to the plants, get to people with disabilities, etc., etc. I desire to remember, as I have said before, that these matters (which are necessary functions, which ought to be given to the principal persons) are not essential to us, I say again, we do not divert the subject. Moreover, in the last two points of correction, in another word, round the subject (after all, what service should be given, the quality of service, etc.) they were agreed with the Socialist party. And I say, two points literally. So gradually, from our point of view, it doesn't reach the heart. It's almost the same whether you decide this or not here today. I don't want to hear from you ever since tomorrow, either accept it or refuse it, because you don't propose anything on that level. Are we against this proposal? No. Can someone be against it? No. But is it good for something? Not even. Then it's not worth it. Then we will abstain from it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Eubertarians. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u97	Thank you. Mrs Arrondo, two questions with you. Quality. Quality proposals? I believe that we, all the parliamentary groups, have already had the opportunity to discuss this issue of quality with the Department of Social Policy, and have brought us quality and such ratios. I think there are two, there are certainly two dimensions in the field of quality. The objective dimension of the service that is provided, which, if we observe that service carefully, we see that it is an objectively quality service. And then the subjective dimension, the perception that citizenship has of quality. In this sense, to bring this subjective dimension to the objective, projections are made, which have been made, and the results are that citizens have a great perception of service. With regard to the other question that raises to me, it is really that that is not the question of the added value of this rule. We always talk about that issue, but it is not the question of the added value of this rule. The question of the added value of this rule is what models we are talking about. So, that's why I say you blur the debate, that's all. As for Mrs López de Ocariz, forty years old, seventy years old... I think, Mrs. López de Ocariz, I'm short of it anyway. Business opportunities, it's oligopoly, it's monopoly... You make it clear, there's no problem. You make it clear. Whatever you have to say, make it clear. Extralimitation of the law. However, this is an issue that I do believe is relevant in this debate. Extralimitation of the law. It's not over-limiting in the law! It's law enforcement, it's continuing to comply with the law, it's interpreting the law, which is what you don't do, to continue to comply with it beyond. That is to interpret and continue to advance in that law. Rural areas, you say, "You say it's supercovered." What I have heard the counselor say is that there is good attention in rural areas, but they determine or find areas for improvement in these assessments. It's great to have areas of improvement, because they allow us to keep moving! What is at stake here are two models: an already outdated model of care, and the Community model of care, both in the social and health fields. And we said it, we saw it. The Health Committee has made visits, has made many visits, where we have basically been explained what the model of community care is. It's not getting people away from their usual surroundings. You have to keep them in the usual environment, and bring the services there. It's that simple. What you propose is to return to the previous model. I mean, create pond compartments, have people there, and bring them the services there. That's what you're asking us. With the speech you made in the interpellation to the Councillor on 26 June and with the speech you made here today, that is what you put to us. Meet again with your parliamentary group, and see if in these socio-health environments they set the model they want. I think it is perfectly shared in your parliamentary group to bet, without a doubt, as I think you have been betting for many years, on the Community model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u98	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. End of discussion, we're going to vote for the Basque popular, the Basque Socialists, and the middle-class correction signed by the Eucabertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of 53; contraries, 0; white, 0; Abstations, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u99	The central correction has been approved. Number of points in theme list: "Moce, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Popula team, Carmelo Barrio Barroja, in regard to the need to guarantee the blood-sold Euskadin in summer months. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal is Mr. Barrio yours to introduce and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, lehendakari, counselor. Well, I'll be brief, because there's a basic agreement on this point. So... The basis for this motion is four issues. Well, some pre-summer statements from donors' associations...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u101	A ver, please... (Mr. Barrio, wait a moment. Please, silence, all! Please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u102	Thank you, President. Statements by leaders of blood donor associations before summer, to draw attention to some needs in relation to summer forecasts. Information came out, and we heard those officials talking about the reserves at that time being 20% below the usual level, and 1,300 more blood donations were needed for the summer months... Well, some issues that were drawing attention to some issue, without alarming. They were descriptions of something that was there and what you could work on. Also, apart from these statements by officials, a 2014 report on blood donation in Spain, made by the Spanish Federation of Blood Donors, where it had been said that overall there had been a decrease since 2010. They talked about 7%, varying from one community to another, but, well, that was noticed. Indeed, the other two foundations are the foundations of Parliament, both the questioning of the counselor and his answer, where we agreed in the analysis, and also the recent appearance of Dr. Vesga, director of the Basque Centre for Transfusions and Human Fabrics, who in relation to some issues, well, it was called attention. We do have a good system, but we had to work and we had to keep working. And there were some warning lights on this subject, which has led us to move forward on a motion, regardless of whether we recognize the work. Some data have been put on the table on all these foundations that I have shown. From 2010 to 2014 the number of donations has been decreasing. We justified the times in our motion: the Christmas season, which also came out in all these debates, and the period of July and August, are not conducive to the donation of blood. There are also other factors: labour factors, labour mobility, which also influence; the crisis has influenced; the complicated age of twenty to thirty years, when donors seem to cease to be temporarily, although they then resume that condition; the march of young people, and, above all, in all respects, the progressive ageing of the Basque population certainly does not contribute. That is, more and more people live, more and more older people, who can no longer donate blood, but there must be more transfusions in relation to the health and surgical needs of the population. Things have gone quite well so far in Euskadi, but we understand that some warning lights are on. Not only here, of course, but, well, we have to be prepared. We understand that you can be prepared, that the Administration is, but it is good that in relation to these issues that are basic, essential, fundamental in public health, and in surgery, and in health and health care in this country, well, it is good that we talk about it. We have dealt with it many times in the committee, and we also spoke a moment ago of parliamentary visits, which we also first met. But, well, I believe that we can and must, by mutual agreement, move forward in the drive of donation, move forward in the culture of donation. That's why the motion we put forward. And the motion was submitted by a server, but, of course, the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group have essentially contributed to forging an agreement. And at the first point we talk about continuing to encourage and support blood collection campaigns and their components. Follow... Of course I do, go on! We have no problem recognizing the work that has been done, do we? Moreover, it is not only a work of Osakidetza or its Basque Center for Transfusions and Human Fabrics, but also of associations. It's a work of society. That is, of the brotherhoods, of the blood donor associations, which has been an unselfish, exemplary work, in Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, isn't it? And that we have to recognize each other. Those who are donors, or those who are not, we have seen it, we have always lived it. Especially here in Vitoria, in Álava, we know of the exemplary attitude, surpassing all the donation rankings, not only in Spain, but in Europe or in the world. And we must say this and make it clear; continue to encourage and support campaigns for blood collection and its components, so that the needs – of which we have already spoken here, of the Basque Centre for Transfusions and Human Fabrics – to provide quality health care are covered at all times and those warning lights that can be perceived at any time are not lit. Also – that's why the fundamental thing we wanted to include – in those times of the year as can be Christmas and summer holidays. We have seen, and it has also been recognized by those responsible for health, that there are periods that are more problematic, less donation, and I think it is good to continue to increase and continue to support those campaigns. And the second point of the motion, which was also proposed by the Socialist Group and which is very interesting and complementary to the previous one, to continue to promote and collaborate with the rest of the institutions (there are many) and actors involved in the development of basic research projects, in new technologies, new medical or sanitary formulas, to optimize the use of blood components and the design and development of effective and safe alternatives to human blood transfusion, which are viable and sustainable in the future, in order to further improve the quality and safety of the medical treatments needed by patients. Well, those are the fundamental issues that this motion develops; a motion that really wants to be – and we already announce it to the counselor, to the dialogue that we had more than in the debate – proactive, to see that there are some warning lights. I mean, we're not gonna worry too much, but we do have to be alert about something as essential as blood donation in Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u103	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing the corrections, Mrs. Roncal, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u104	Thank you very much, Madam President. Pick it up on. Well, here the People's Group has brought us a reasonable proposal in principle, but we must look at what is really happening in our society. Totally in agreement that donations campaigns are strengthened at certain times, but we must see the reasons (he has already pointed out several) for which there may be relative problems of lack of blood at some point, or reserve problems. Because we do not believe that what we are talking about is a lack of solidarity from society. Basque citizens are no less supportive today than before. What happens, according to the data that we have and that we were transferred both the adviser and the director of the Basque Center for Transfusions and Human Fabrics, what happens above all has been the economic crisis, the lack of employment, therefore the lack of contact of the associations with the workers in the companies. Because they have diminished, they are now at home, and it is much more difficult for them to have the ease to donate. Just as young people, on the other hand, who, precisely because of the same lack of employment, must go out, and then they also lose the possibility of donating. In addition to that, there are social customs of travelling longer and longer journeys, which also makes donation more difficult. Besides that we are an ageing society, which increasingly groups of faithful donors reach the age of sixty-five, and from that point on, by European guidelines, they stop donating. There are therefore a number of circumstances in which neither this Parliament nor the Government can act, because they are circumstances, as we say, social, or ageing population, or lack of relative employment, which would be very difficult to intervene to facilitate more donors. Therefore, and I believe that it has been mentioned here, the problem, in addition to guaranteeing the amount of blood supply, we believe that quality must also be guaranteed. And the problem is not in today's society; it's for the future. Because receiving a biological product from human donation is not harmless, it is not harmless, there may be problems. In fact, there are problems, and there is a lot of effort behind every use of a product derived from human solidarity. Let us see, if not, the issue of organ transplants: they require the search for compatibility, but once this is achieved, we must continue to treat the patient who has received a transplant, then that has a very important cost, besides that we already have a chronic patient who has to take care of all life. But besides – and we're going to focus only on blood – what happens to blood? For blood is the same, it is a biological product, which comes from a donor to whom the transfusion services have made a series of analyses of known elements, but not unknown ones. And in fact, the whole history of blood donations is full of negative consequences, problems and deaths. And, if not, in 1992, for example, when AIDS-contaminated blood arrived, we infected a lot of patients who received blood transfusions for their coagulation problems, so a large number of deaths and diseases were generated. Because when AIDS came – let's not forget – neither was diagnosed nor treated, which means that for the patient who was infected with a transfusion, death was the most logical consequence. Then came hepatitis C, which, of course, hepatitis C is developing or emerging in our society, is developing equal to twenty years after receiving the transfusion! And then you weren't looking at the hepatitis C virus, because it wasn't known that contaminated blood could come. And that's what happens, that the disease comes sooner than the solution. Therefore, we believe that blood transfusion and human donation is the solution to a problem today, it is the best alternative today, but it cannot be that of the future, because it does not guarantee safety, as we have said, mainly because of the change in human habits, the number of demographic movements there are, of people coming from areas where there are other types of viruses (and those are the biggest problems of blood contamination), viruses and other particles even smaller than viruses, such as prions, which are the particles that we can introduce into the body of a recipient from a donor who has not been studied that because it is unknown that it can come. Therefore, as we say, it can be expensive to investigate (that is the solution of the future), it is expensive to investigate, but neither does blood transfusion, even if the donor is supportive and free, it is cost zero, because we have to maintain services, we have to do some tests, we have to conserve blood, we have to take care of it and we have to distribute it. In other words, the cost of human donation service also has a cost. Therefore, we do not believe that as the donation is altruistic it will be zero cost. The solution, as I say, for the future, to guarantee not only the quantity, which we have already said is guaranteed today, but the customs change and that can become problematic... The solution to guarantee the amount of blood, or the amount of products to be introduced as treatment to patients who need it, the quantity and safety, comes from artificial blood, from products that are investigated for the components of the blood. Because sometimes it is not necessary to transfuse the whole blood, it is enough to transfuse components, such as the case of patients who have clotting factors, who do not need a complete blood transplant, but only the factors they need. That's what you have to work for. Today artificial blood still does not exist as such. Rather, it exists, but it does not have enough quality so that it can be used. But that's the way. That is why we believed that the opportunity to talk about blood donations also required a little further look. Let us look to the future and make the effort to incorporate research projects. Because, while research is expensive, as I say, it is more expensive and more problematic to maintain the situation, which is resolved today and is the best alternative, but not for the future. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u106	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. We too have joined this middle-way. We believe it has been a very positive initiative, and still more after we have agreed on the medium. On the first point, our team has wanted to show him the support of the Euscal Transfusion Center, as well as the laboring associations of the blood-collectors, and, of course, to acknowledge the commitment shown by so many well-willed blood-collars. We've also wanted to express and help to extend the message from organizations, these blood-drinking campaigns. As Mr. Barrio has also mentioned, the director of the Euscal Center of Transfusions, Mr. Vsga, mentioned in its occurrence that we have a very high degree of the amount of blood-collectors, compared with the most highly developed countries around us, and that is to say, it's a pleasure, but it's true, that it's never enough, and that we've always got to improve and do things as best as we can. It is true, that the reserves which the center now requires are preserved in order to maintain a certain physical health, but we acknowledge that we must always continue to work, and that, as Mr. Vsga mentioned, what importance does it have to faithfulize and adhere to the donors for the whole year, and that this commitment has been stable during time, and that in those seasons of summer or Christmas, the blood-collectors should be encouraged at such moments as are the same as for the French or for the worse, and therefore we have no objection at all, and I think it is a positive one. As to the second point, we have no doubt about it; to the future we must follow steps in the long term or in the middle of the period. We are clear that to increase the security and quality of the transfusions, to improve the study, it is necessary to penetrate into the study, and in this sense Mr. Vestga mentioned, and that the center itself is already in harmony with many and many other institutions. He also mentioned that, as the measures of prevention are more and more strict, other alternatives are required, and in this sense we believe that the inquiry is indispensable and must be studied, in order to render it more and more useful, and more secure in the future. So, finally, I want you to thank all the teams, because we think it's unanimous to accept this middle course. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u107	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing on the line of teams that don't run, Misa mustn't take the word. The delegates of the EH team are... Not even. Passing the answers round, we'll ring the bell. (stopping) End of discussion, we'll put Euskal populars on the half-conditions signed by the Basque Socialists and the Eucators. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u108	It was unanimously accepted. The seventh point on the theme list: "The Moment, introduced by Arri Zulaika Portillo EH Collector, about the state of young EAE's work-prefecture. Discipline and final resolution. The man who made the proposal is next to the group. Mrs. Zulaika has her word, her initiative, and her departure. And all the rest of the rest of the company are silent, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u109	Thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon, everyone. There was once a people, the Basque Country, where the situation of youth was very different from other nations. In our village, when the young people began their studies, they did not spend too much time in their search for jobs. At such a rate the young people's unemployment was very low, we could say that it was technical unemployment. Besides, in our country, where they found a position, they had worthy conditions of labour, in every sense (in the line of security, as well as in the rest of their rights), because the rules of the contract here applied to them, and by comparing them with the rest of the people, had a better condition of labour. Because our country education system was incredibly good, it was almost 10,000 young people who went abroad to work with a scholarship and a rich work experience. And they all went back to the Basque Country, thanks to these scholarships, where they got a better job. So the young people of our country were spent at the age they wanted, and they developed their lives. We'd like this story to be a description of reality. I'm sure you'd like everyone here to be like that, too. I'd like not to be really a catastrophist, believe me, but unfortunately reality is quite different, quite contrary. The reality of the young people's position is very crude. Araban, Biscaian and Gipuian are 30 percent unemployed, and if we take the space of less than 25, the rate of unemployment reaches 38%. But the dignity of the younger is general. Even amongst those who work, prerogative is spread. 95% of the new signing contracts are temporary contracts. Young people who work are worth less than 13,000 dollars a year by comparing them with the rest of their employees. Besides, the young women, comparing them with men, charge less than $3.540 euros. Even amongst the younger ones, the unjust state we suffer is more done. It shows that in the last few years, almost 10,000 young people have gone abroad looking for a job. Some of them have gone to seek a rich experience, but most of them have certainly gone away with no hope at all. Of these, we do not exactly know how many have obtained a worthy employment. We don't know how many people have managed to get a presidential job, and we don't know how many people haven't got a job. We don't even know how many they'll come back and they'll have the hopes of coming back here. Six of the ten people who live in Araguaia and Gipuzia are less than 35 years old, and 66% of young men have no income at all. And to end with the description of the younger man's condition, the last date is: In Europe, too, if it's 26 years old, it's between 30-31. Some of you will think of data, data, data, and data, and unfortunately young people feel as a rare data, as a number; they do not feel protected from the government, institutions, and institutions, they can see no will, proposition, or solution. What kind of government leaves them helpless when they know that their young men live in a raw procession? What sort of rulers, who treat young people as if they were numbers? And it's a great concern of feeling. It's impossible to accept this situation in any society. "Mingerka introduced the Enpleu Plan, and set a number of steps to promote young people's jobs: the programmes of labor, the programmes of re-establishment of talent, etc., but the facts I have just described show that they are not effective enough to return to the situation of young people. The consequence is that in June EH Biltuk addressed Urkulluri an interpelation, which was exactly what he meant in front of the work of the young people who live in Araguaia and Gipuz. The chief physician of the Police and Society, Mr. Toña, answered: "The presidency you make is the result of a state-wide appeal, and in that respect the Eucomunion has no hands or competition." We have no competition, though we have asked more than once for transfers of that right. We've explained this opinion over and over in different forums. As soon as we see once more that there is no future without the head of property, we shall have no guarantee for young men without independence. He was talking about the forms of work that have come to us in the past few years. We may, in fact, agree with this reflection, but I should say that not only the conditions of work have been shaken by reforms. This situation is one of the results of the neoliberal system. However, I can't stay with my arms folded in front of a state of emergency that would have to take emergency measures in front of an emergency situation. It is necessary that he should be confronted with the task of the young, and the anxiety of the situation in addition to the young, the legislature has confessed more than once, and this chamber has also been placed against reforms. Now let us pass through rhetoric and rhetoric. Let's get to agree on the steps we have to take, the possible ones, the possible ones, the possible ones, the ones that can start. The will, ladies and gentlemen, is a political will which requires an answer to the affairs of the younger. He concludes our motion and fixes the foundations of that route to which it ought to be done. At the very first point of the Moment we ask him to do the research on the outcome of last-month's reform, including the latest points of law, and the exact consequences of Araban, Bukka, and Gipuzia, on the one hand, and on the other the possible chances of resisting these points. We do not say only that the pre-eminence of youth has increased by reforming, as I have said before. "Merch, the Chief of Enpleguing, in fact, has so often expressed itself, that we give you a hand to agree in the exact measure. In the second place, I'm asking you to come to my senses in terms of practice and other operators, in money-friends or joints, for example, in order that the criterion of transcending the dreadful points and consequences of reforming work may be determined and reflected in exact measures. The administration must be refractory in the production of a proper employment, as well as in the contracting of the Administration itself, and, if indirectly, when employment is produced, and, of course, also in the programmes which start to produce employment. It is, therefore, in his power to prefer the exact criteria of the public contractors he employs, or of those companies which do not apply reforms of labour. That's what we're asking for at the second point. Here is another definite measure, as from the starting-point. And the last thing we're asking is if we don't have the commitment not to apply the horrible points and effects of work reform, and that commitment to the project of 2016. For though there is no political boldness of going against the law as a whole, let us examine how the application of it can be avoided, or how to conclude its application. This is our proposal. that which can be done, possible, precise; that will, the political will, to resist the prerogative. We know this won't be enough to deal with the creative problem of young people, but it could be the first step of a career. For the moment, effective policy in our jurisdictions must be designed to produce a young job, and the bet must be important, as well as the budgets. Considering the corrections of the other teams, we think they don't make mistakes, they don't focus on the real problem. They're tractive, just to look at the gallery and make it look good. I'm afraid I've seen them again this evening. What has been said is, therefore, a political will which is necessary and expected in this affair. They're fed up with nice words, young people are sick of nice words and excuses. Let's go to the trouble source. Let's go to the concretion. Without either will or courage, there is no way of turning this situation back. Our proposal is in that direction. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the team. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u111	Thank you, President. The fight against job insecurity requires responses that include social policies, economic policies, fiscal policies, and also a labour framework that combats job insecurity and avoids it at all costs. Another key instrument is to strengthen collective bargaining, but the constitutionally attributed role of trade unions and the social partners has suffered a major deterioration as a result of austerity policies and as a result of labour reform, which ultimately means that the role of trade unions and the social partners is something like a dysfunction in the economy, when they really constitute a collective power in the face of the asymmetry of the power of capital against labour. Labour reform has been blamed on the rigidity of labour institutions, forgetting that, with the same legislation, between 1995 and 2007 Spain was the country that grew the most in Europe, and forgetting also that with the same legislation there are very unequal unemployment rates according to the territories. This means that it is not labour law, it is not the institutions of labour law that raise these problems. It is rather a question of the organization of production, by which it distinguishes between productive and non-productive workers. Therefore, we are not dealing with a strictly legal issue, but possibly also with the need to change the basis of the productive model. On the other hand, we find that sometimes with employment strategies there are figures such as the promotion of entrepreneurship, which in the end seem to want to shift the responsibility of creating jobs ultimately, diluting the responsibility of employers and administration. Thus, we have a cluster of forms of job insecurity. A first group consists of fixed-term contracts, part-time contracts and indirect jobs, such as subcontracting or work through TTEs. Another group would be temporary contracts, ranging from short to very short, part-time and even by telephone. As a result of all this, there is an increase in despotism and arbitrariness in the workplace, and each time it is seen as a daily fact, because, in the end, employment is a kind of work, but without any right. It is therefore necessary to establish a legal framework that discourages precariousness. A week ago the Socialists prepared proposals precisely against precariousness, which have to do first with a new wording of the Workers' Statute, where there are indeed fundamental rights to fight precariousness, to guarantee wages aligned with the euro area, and to recover the status as the right to vocational training, to equal opportunities in access to employment, to incorporate the guarantee of rights such as safety and health at work; to end the false self-employed, those who work only for one company, and to consider them employed by others; to end the false fellow, so that only a formative and non-productive activity is linked to him... These are some of the proposals contained in the decalogue of the Socialists, and in principle that is the horizon with which we work. The adviser, in the debate that preceded this one today, told the proposer that this is indeed a global problem, it is not a problem that ends or begins here. And with this I came to say that it exceeded our capabilities. However, we believe that the Government can do something. If we do not support EH Bildu's initiative, it is not because it lacks interest. What happens is that we don't want to distract the government any more. We are not going to ask you anything, but to inform us (that is the content of our amendment), but to inform this House of what you are doing in the fight and in the fight against precariousness. So the Basque Government can do something. Firstly, it can comply with previous agreements of this Parliament which are in the direction of decent work. For example, that agreement of 17 October 2013, in which we said that the Government was developing the Public Sector Contracts Act, by deploying a package of general administrative clauses with particular reference to the implementing agreements, an agreement that has not been complied with, thus, in the end, different issues. Agreement of 13 February 2014, in which we asked you to finally set up the register for special employment centres, that there are many social-based initiatives that want to become foundations or associations in special employment centres. Agreement that remains unfulfilled. Or, for example, more recently, an agreement of 30 April against fraudulent temporary recruitment, which called for a campaign to empower the Labour Inspectorate to combat recruitment fraud... Well, it's been no more than four or five months, but we don't know anything about that campaign. Then we believe that there is scope for intervention. Therefore, we raise nothing with the government... We do not raise anything with the Government of the State, we do not say anything to the Government of the State, because it is already in operation and really does not make much sense. The Socialists are probably and almost certainly called upon to take on new responsibilities of government, and therefore we will make our own this decalogue that we have just set out. The Basque Government can increase measures in the fight against fraud in recruitment, it can promote and promote collective bargaining and the defence of agreements in their scope of application equally to contractors and subcontractors; it can prevent mini-fundism of enterprises, where unregistered forms of wage labour predominate; it can restrict public aid (we agree, Mrs Zulaika) to companies in the formal sector which are pre-charging their jobs under new forms of recruitment; it can not pre-characterize the public employment of the Administration; it can encourage and encourage collective bargaining and social dialogue, which are essential instruments for achieving decent work. In short, in the face of a global problem, as the Councillor said, action must be taken locally. And therefore, considering precisely the dimension of this problem, we believe that there must be decisive action on the government's agenda against this scourge of precariousness. That is why we have tabled the amendment we have tabled. We do not tell the Government what to do on this issue: we ask it to report regularly on its political nerve to this problem which, if it continues, will not only bring the gap in inequality, but that in turn will bring social convulsion and political instability. We do not subscribe, as we say, to the motion of Euskal Herria Bildu, not because it lacks interest. The proposal is undoubtedly of interest, and that is a debate that has certainly not ended today, it has sufficient importance and entity, but we want the Government to focus on positive actions that it can account for, whatever they may be. Here we have recalled a few, including parliamentary agreements, which, in one way or another, are also pieces against precariousness and in the pursuit of decent jobs, as the ILO calls what should be a decent job. Nor has Mr Maneiro's amendment been accepted by our group, because the subject of the single contract, which was also very self-evident, we believe that it does not take place. We do not believe that the single contract is the solution. On the contrary, we believe that it is based on false premises, such as the one that indefinite work enjoys so many privileges and advantages that it takes... Originally, yes, Mr Maneiro, those who raised this issue of the single contract were a group called Citizens, and Mr Garicano, who was the one who vehemently defended him, did, let us say, these reflections. We believe that this single contract model not only does not solve anything, but also jibarizes even more to indefinite contracts, and therefore we understand that the solution does not pass by. It is an interesting subject, which would give much of itself, but we believe that today is not the day to discuss this issue. That is why we did not welcome him or did not understand reasonable agreement on all that. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u112	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maine, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u113	Yes, thank you very much, President. Evidently, qualifying the job situation of young people as precarious is not only fair, but it is also very necessary, it is essential. It is essential to say this in order to put this problem at the top of the political and economic agenda. Therefore, denouncing this reality is good, but it is insufficient. Criticising labour reform is good, on countless occasions we have done so in this House, but it is insufficient. The Basque Government's Employment Plan may be fine, but the truth is that it is not being effective either in ending this scourge. The amendments by the different groups or even the motion can be said to be fine, and even the compromise signed by the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group is fine, but I think that all this is insufficient. And Mr Itxaso's speech is also good, and some of the proposals he has put forward are good, but the truth is that we are still in the same situation as we were a few months ago. They do not seem to be effective measures to put an end to job insecurity, they do not seem to be giving the results we all want. On the other hand, with regard to the socialist proposals to this decalogue, if we look back we cannot say that, in the end, socialist history, when the Spanish Government has ruled, has not been a success in creating stable, decent and quality jobs, but rather quite the opposite. That is why we have wanted to put forward a new idea. New to some extent, because UPyD has been defending this idea for six years. We have been defending this idea of an indefinite single contract for six years. Obviously, we do not have much less the magic wand, and the implementation of the single indefinite contract is obviously not the panacea to solve all the problems, but we think it is a novel idea, which has not yet been applied and which could have its usefulness. That is why we have tabled this amendment in its entirety, to say something different in this House, so that we do not remain in what is reflected in the compromise amendment, which is basically to urge the Basque Government to continue working, or to urge the Basque Government to inform this House of what it is doing. I think it is a compromise amendment that is very unambitious, and I think it does not propose any concrete measures to end job insecurity, or at least the results at the moment are not seen. That is why we have tabled this amendment, in which we urge the Government of Spain to introduce for all new recruitments... And when I point out to the Government of Spain, I mean this one or the one who comes next, that I do not know if it will be in the hands of the Socialist Party. But, in any case, whatever the Government of Spain may be, what we propose is to establish for all new contracts the single, indefinite contract, the benefits of which could include the following: it would promote a closer relationship between the company and the worker, it would encourage recruitment, it would increase mobility and competitiveness, it would improve the training of employees, it would facilitate the fight against labour fraud, and it would provide clarity and legal certainty. And it would also be especially beneficial for young people who seek and want decent employment. What has been done so far has been used to create stable, decent and quality employment? We're seeing you don't. Is this the panacea that we pose? Of course not. Are there any arguments for this proposal? We think so. Is it worth a try? We think so. I think the time has come to do different things to see if we are getting better results than we have so far; therefore, we think that other things can be done. Is this a proposal just for Euskadi? No, no, Would it affect Euskadi? Obviously, yes. Beneficiary to young people, and also to young Basques? Absolutely. There is an endemic failure of our labour market: in addition to the increasing precariousness and temporality, the duality between fixed and temporary workers. This problem has been known and dragged for decades, but, labour reform after labour reform, it is not solved. That is why we call for the establishment of an indefinite single contract with increasing compensation for dismissal. Advantages: it would facilitate the long-term relationship between employees and companies, encourage investment in training, simplify the existing contract mix – which I also believe is proposed by the Socialist Party – and eliminate the harmful duality and inequality that creates between citizens and others. It is not an original idea of UPyD, but the most claimed measure by economists around the world specializing in employment. There was even a time when she was defended by some Spanish economist, who today, by the way, is minister in the Rajoy government. The undefined single contract proposed by UPyD provides for increasing compensation on two scales. For redundancies it would start in twelve days per year worked and climb two days per year, until it reached twenty-four. For improper dismissals the scale would range from twenty-two to thirty-four days, with the same annual increase of two days. In addition, in order to face possible compensation, the company would gradually provide a fund, which the worker could take to another company if he decided to change his job. More advantages. All contracts would be indefinite from the date of signature, with certain exceptions. It would encourage a closer relationship between business and workers, encourage recruitment, increase mobility and competitiveness, improve employee training, facilitate the fight against labour fraud, provide clarity and legal certainty, and, as pointed out in our amendment, it would be a particularly beneficial issue for young people seeking and seeking decent employment. As I have pointed out, the single indefinite contract favours a closer relationship between company and worker. To an eventual company does not usually offer training, because today it is, but tomorrow another will come. Instead, when the employee is going to be indefinitely, both sides are interested in increasing knowledge and skills. And we also think it is the best solution for young people: they will have access to a balanced and modern labour market, which is just what we don't have; their security will grow over time; the company will be more encouraged to offer them training; portable compensation will facilitate job change when opportunities arise, without fear of losing rights, and will develop their careers in a more dynamic and competitive economy. We propose to reserve temporary contracts for very specific and very well-rated cases. I believe, without a doubt, that this is an idea that will open the way. We have been defending it for six years, and we believe it is a deeply progressive idea, it is a perfectly constitutional idea and proposal, which does not reduce dismissal, and it is a proposal widely supported by different economists of all ideologies, which I believe they share something: they are all progressive because they want to change things for the better. Anything but holding hands crossed. Anything, except insisting on failed prescriptions, that make us continue to suffer from job insecurity, temporality, unemployment and so many evils that haunt not only our young people. This is therefore our proposal, which I wanted to explain in this Parliament. I mean, it's not the panacea, it wasn't going to solve all the problems, and it would have to be accompanied by another series of economic policy measures and a change of productive model, but I think it's a good idea. Mr. Itxaso, think about it, tell your party to think about it. It is worth at least studying it and taking it into consideration, more than anything if you come to the government. Maybe it's interesting to start it. I think it is a very, very progressive proposal that would improve things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u114	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. We have a discussion about the young EH Collectek's premium work. The business and the want of employment occupy us in general, and the situation of youth in particular, which are our future. My first piece of business, the first day, has been to promote economic recovery and employment, the first axis of his activity. The different plans are set up with exact measurements. As often as I have said, the measures of government must create or revive confidence in the enterprise in order to create employments. And gradually going on, the data is becoming better: 2013 to 20000 jobs lost, but in the last two years 25,000 have been recovered. The number of affiliations in Social Security had 109.829 baxas from 2008 to 2013, but from 2013 to 2015, he won 22.122 affiliated. Little yet, but little by little, we're leaving. But we can't cheat, and from the beginning the President Urkullu himself said it wouldn't be easy, he decided that the consequences wouldn't be noticed at the first moment. He's working like a piece of shit. He takes measures, he keeps taking them, he takes them. Some data that helps us to see the future optimisticly: The government predicts that the Gordin product of the interior will increase 2,5%, as other representatives say, that it will be higher than that. And jobs will grow %1,6%, as far as full job jobs are concerned. Therefore, even if it is timidly, we can ensure that quantitatively the data are improving, and the challenge to the future will be aimed at growing qualitatively as well. We must be able to work together and promote measures to create quality jobs. Yesterday, the Lehendakari said that the Basque Government must continue to generate confidence, so that growth is stronger and leads to the creation of quality jobs. This is the goal that we all certainly share. With regard to youth employment, its precarious situation or lack of employment is one of the priorities of the Basque Government. As a youth the future of the country, the Government has launched a number of concrete initiatives aimed at improving the employability of this group, with indicators that allow its subsequent evaluation. Specific initiatives grouped into four axes: support for young entrepreneurship; two, dual training; three, first work experience; four, young talent. And in each of these axes, with different actions. In support of young entrepreneurship, support for young entrepreneurs, agreement with Gaztempresa, Urratsbat programme, training and dissemination of the social economy for young people, junior cooperatives, innovative actions for youth entrepreneurship. Axis endowed with 5.6 million euros in 2014 and 5.4 million in 2015, with an estimated job creation of 740 direct in 2014 and 1,058 in 2015. Second axis, dual formation. Within this we have the Hezibi programme and practical training in workplaces. This axis is endowed with 4.9 million euros in 2014 and 1 million euros in 2015. The Department of Employment and Education of the Basque Government is collaborating, significantly improving the employability of 40,000 young people in 2014 and 12,450 in 2015. Third axis, first work experience, with the following actions: Lehen Aukera, recruitment of young people in centres of Basque companies abroad, aid for relay contracts, agreements with universities and Bride Salcedo, guidance and accompaniment to specific employment for young people. Endowed with about €12 million in 2014 and €10.6 million this year 2015, allowing a first direct work experience to about 6,500 young people last year and 1,600 this year. And fourth and final axis, young talent: internationalization grants, Global Training, transnational mobility for young people, support for youth return, scholarships to the United Nations project, specialisation grants in the field of development cooperation, aid to Basque people cooperating. This fourth axis is endowed with 5.7 million euros in 2014 and 7.2 million euros in 2015. The want of unemployment between the young and the young is a question of primency for this government. In fact, this situation has an effect on our young people's life project and their personal dignity, so that, apart from the fact that EukoMolly has made a clear commitment to young people, he's made precise measures and announced that he's going to continue to push them. In the plenary of general policy, the lehendakari announced that the budget for 2016 will have items to promote employment plans with special attention to the youth group. In addition, it expressed a commitment to increase the Lehen Aukera programme budget by 50 % in order to promote the first work experience through the encouragement of work contracts in practice. And here I want to make a point on the subject of employment contracts in practice, because it is true that sometimes youth representatives complain that recruitment is in practice, but in turn they also complain because sometimes they require work experience that they do not have. Therefore, we understand that it is good to promote labour contracts in practice. Therefore, I insist, the Government is working, promoting concrete measures to facilitate the employability of young women and women. As we said at first, there's still work to do, a great job, how not. And then, as I said at the general political meeting, it'll continue to develop the precise size and program to promote young people's jobs. We will not support the initiative of the gathering for the reasons we are about to discuss: because we do not see the need of a report in the first place, in order to unite the imperfect consequences of the reforming of the government of Rajoy. In our opinion, M. M. M.M. would have to push the programmes and precise measurements to comfort young people's jobs in order to get a job of the quality of young people. Beyond criticism of the state's labour reform and its consequences, the Basque Government is being proactive, with concrete ideas, programmes and measures that reflect reality, through concrete actions and budget lines that affect, still incipiently and to the extent possible, the situation of youth employment. As for the second point, and as the chief physician told you, Mrs. Zulaika, you can't prevent the company from applying the measures made by law. And thirdly, Insumption, Infusion to the measures of reform. You're asking me to do something that's not illegal, and we think it's not fair. Are you instigious in the institutions which you govern with the established laws? With regard to the UPyD amendment, we believe that it should in any case be discussed in the Congress of Deputies. We will therefore not support this amendment either. Also coming from you, Mr. Maneiro, who always defends that all Spaniards have to be equal and that they are equal, man, pose that specific contract here in Euskadi, only to... I'd hardly fit in later. We have come to an agreement with the Socialist Party, and in the middle we have gathered together what the two parties required in our fundamental demands, and at the first point, we ask you to take them up and put them in touch with the young men before they start their jobs, because we think they are the measures addressed to them (the old) to their view and to know that knowledge would be most important and complete. And this doesn't mean they'll always agree with the young people's representatives and the Red Beetle point, but we're sure to know. We have insisted that the work is necessary, and we believe that it is also proper, in this matter, for the most effectual measures of employment among all. And the second point in the compromise calls on the Basque Government to present biannually in Parliament a reflection of the measures taken in relation to employment and improvement of employability. I'm hoping you'll get a hold of her. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Mrs. Llanos, representing the Basque Potula, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Well, from this group we have not tabled any amendments to this motion because, when one read it, rather than an initiative motivated by a priority that I believe is a priority for all, motivated by a concern that I believe is a shared concern of all, that is to study formulas that increase youth employment rates in Euskadi, motivation, I said, seems to be carrying out the umpteenth pronouncement against labour reform. And I am not going to talk about labour reform again, because I believe that the debates have been propagated in this House. We have all set out our views on this labour reform in a clear way, and I am not going to talk about this labour reform again, even though in his motion he only talks about it. The three points, the three, are aimed at labour reform, and that is what the question you put to Mr Lehendakari and which Mr Toña finally answered was about the measures that the Basque Government was taking to combat the precarious work of young people and their high unemployment rate. And you haven't talked much about it here today either. He's coming to pick up what he says on the motion. And besides, when you present the motion, what you do is pick up the glove that Mr Toña, the counselor, throws at you, that the truth is that you have turned out to be an advanced student in the style of the Urkullu government, which is a government in which the culprit of job insecurity is always alien to the Basque government. Always. The culprit of the high youth unemployment rate in Euskadi is never in Lakua. There is always an external enemy to be held accountable, which in 99% of cases is usually the Madrid Government. Practically, if you read the answer to Mr Toña's question, the fault of precariousness was the job reform, and it was already there. Or, where appropriate, he also came to say that the employers, but under no circumstances did he analyse the measures taken by the Basque Government, nor did he self-criticise whether or not those measures had actually been effective, beyond making a connection between them. True, it has been said here that we have a youth unemployment rate of around 30%, that in August this year 16,500 young people under the age of 24 (i.e. almost 40%) were unemployed. It is true that our figures are better than those of the national average, but of course they are higher than the European average. The Basque Government – here today the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party has said again – in its employment plan for 2015 had four axes with a budget of around 23 million euros in promoting youth employment, and estimated that there were 14,600 people who were going to be affected. And the first thing that might be asked is whether these policies have really been effective, whether they need not be changed, if they need not be turned around again, or, as it is all the fault of the Madrid Government or of labour reform, we do nothing and point. Is it not possible to do with our competences, with which we have (beyond continually demanding new competences, with which we have many), different measures to increase these youth employment rates? Because you, Mrs. Zulaika, were telling him, you've made Mr. Toña's accomplice. It refers only in its motion to labour reform and to different studies. The three points relate to labour reform, but they do not make any demands on the Basque Government, beyond studying the issue of labour reform. Well, I'm going to read you a few sentences: "Young people know that it is very difficult for them to enter the labour market and that it is stable and appropriate for their training. The crisis will increase the problems of emancipation of Basque youth, who will be forced to accept more precarious working conditions." But these phrases do not correspond to this year 2015, not even last year: they correspond to a study of the Basque Youth Observatory of 2008. Who managed the Basque Government in 2008? Who managed it the previous years? Who was not called, but had managed the four years before and managed the four years after the Government of Spain? Who was then responsible for achieving higher youth employment rates? What was done? What was done both from the Basque Government and from the Spanish Government, then in socialist hands, that have the magic wand for everything? What was done to increase these youth employment rates? 'Cause then there wasn't any job reform to put it all on, huh! Then Satanized labour reform was not in force. And it is true that youth unemployment has increased significantly in the Basque Country, especially among those with university studies. In fact, unemployment among university graduates is twice as high as the EU average. We invest a lot in education, and well invested is, we have the best-prepared young people, but we do not avoid such high unemployment rates. And what have we done to avoid it? According to a study by the Spanish Youth Council that we recently met, our community has witnessed how almost 10,000 young Basques emigrated abroad between 2009 and 2013, with the percentage of young people emigrating out of the total youth population higher than that of the Spanish average. Have they only done so because of labour reform, or is it because they don't have opportunities here? Shouldn't the Basque Government consider doing more than it is doing to generate these new opportunities? Should not measures be taken to prevent prepared young people from leaving Euskadi and then not coming back, so that those who are seeking training come back? Is there anything else you can do other than tell them they're suffering? This same study by the Youth Council also highlights two important issues. Firstly, it gives figures on what this emigration of young people is going to mean for Euskadi, economically speaking: a loss close to 7% of GDP, almost EUR 4.5 million taking into account the investment in education and the taxes that they will no longer contribute to Basque farms. Secondly, it points out that 5,600 young people would stop migrating abroad from now to 2025 if certain conditions were met. And these conditions go beyond endurance, which is what they are asked from the Basque Government. They go through measures to increase the rate of emancipation and access to housing, and increase the occupancy rates. Because that emancipation rate, too, has been said here, is very high: we are almost ten points above the national average. And it's true that things are being done. Things are being done here, as has been reported, and things are being done in the Government of Spain. The Ministry, following an agreement by the Minister of Employment and Social Security and the Employment Advisers of the Autonomous Communities at the Sectoral Conference on Employment and Labour Affairs, raised the age of access to the national youth guarantee system to twenty-nine years, and this has allowed a total of 17,401 children under thirty years of age in the Basque Country to benefit. And also within the strategy of entrepreneurship and youth employment approved by the Government of Spain, more than 100 measures are being developed. We have also put certain measures on the table here in the monograph on employment. And I think that is the way forward: to use our own skills to generate opportunities. Not to blame labour reform or employers, but, using the self-government that we have at our disposal, to create the conditions for reducing youth unemployment rates, which are certainly unacceptable, to allow higher quality in employment and wages, and, above all, to prevent young people who have trained in Euskadi and who are very important contributors from leaving Euskadi and then not coming back. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u118	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the answering shift, Mrs. Zulaika. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u119	Thanks again, ma'am. Let's see if I'm trying to sort out our response to everybody. I believe that, while it is true that the two debates that have taken place here can be related... On the one hand, the debate that today brought EH Bildu, in order to somehow search for the root of the problem, problem of the precarious work of global youth, which, as I said in my first speech, not only says EH Bildu, which is labour reform, but that the Employment Adviser himself also reaffirmed it, and we understand that to tackle the root problem we have to take measures to tackle that root problem. And that is why we were bringing this debate here today with concrete measures. Not critical, Mrs Llanos, of labour reform (I also said in my first speech that we have already spoken on this subject and that Parliament has already taken a stand on this), but we will see how we are dealing with or what measures we can seek to deal in some way with the harmful consequences that the implementation of this labour reform is bringing about. And that we believe is the debate, and that was at least the debate that we brought here today. Of course, we have also said in the first intervention that this does not exempt the Government from also, at the same time, having to develop effective active employment policies. And that's a little bit of the other topic that's been brought up here, which is the Employment Plan. And our criticism..., or so we are going to vote against the compromise amendment that has been made between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, because we believe it is rather a declaration of good intentions. At the first point it is said to continue working with youth agents. And I am sure that we will do so, because in fact a request for the Youth Council itself to appear in this Parliament to explain its prescriptions, and we will also need a clear position on these specific proposals. And we'll keep talking. And the Councilman himself this very week also moved the wish for the employment programmes to be consensual. We will therefore continue to talk about employment programmes and plans. And the second point is to reaffirm that idea a little bit, to demand that the Government bring and follow up on those measures and plans, and that instead of every year, as it does now, it be biannual. That's fine, but it stays there, and, as I said at first, it doesn't go to the root of the problem. This very Monday we also had, as I said, the presence of the adviser, and he gave us the data from the employment programme, last year's job evaluation. Mrs Arregi here has given some figures, I will not repeat them again. Here I have it: training for youth employment, 480 jobs created. Do we think this is enough? Indeed, in the face of that diagnosis, that yes, surely, all of you who are here share with me, we believe that much more can be done, and that much more must be done. Mrs Arregi also commented that in the past full of general policy the Lehendakari Urkullu himself, among the pillars he highlighted or the priorities he highlighted was youth employment. Yeah, another 0.024% for the Lehen Aukera program. These are Mr Urkullu's priorities, or at least he moved him. I hope you're confused and there's much more to the budget you're going to incorporate. I would like to re-launch our desire for consensus and collaboration. I see that it is very difficult, that the rest have closed the door, and that today, unfortunately, we will leave here with another refusal to end this scourge, which in the end is not only suffered by Basque youth, but in the end will be a scourge to the future for society as a whole. In conclusion, I would like to wish the Government, in its cooperation with the Navarro Government, to cooperate on this issue as well. And so I will read one of the points of the programme of the Navarra Government, which undertakes to express a position contrary to the current labour reform: a legal report will be made to know, where appropriate, the possibilities of the Government of Navarra to compensate, even if in part, for its impact on work and precariousness. Well ba, ready.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u121	I had something else, but...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u122	Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u123	The issue you have brought here today is a very important one, and I thank you for that, because it really is a matter that does not end today, which will surely have continuity, because the fight against precariousness is not going to be easy for sure. You have raised in terms of youth collectives, and it was also necessary to stick to it, but it is true that precariousness affects other collectives, as you have just recognized (women, immigrants, people with low qualifications...), and it is really a serious problem. Spain has the highest temporality rate in Europe after Poland, and this is basically due to widespread recruitment fraud. I think it is difficult that even with a single contract this installed culture can disappear. I do not want to argue with you, Mr Maneiro, because your proposals are actually interesting and worth studying, but they will exceed the time we have here. I just want to say that in Europe there is no country that has a single contract, and that in its day the pioneers of this idea are a foundation that is called Fedea, sponsored by the Ibex, and that already makes it in itself a little suspicious. And also to say that throughout this journey the Socialists certainly have some responsibility too, because there have been other labour reforms that have perhaps also contributed, of course, to this precariousness. Let us say that there is a tendency to treat labor relations as if they were commercial contracts, where there is a cynical fiction that there is a symmetry between capital and labour. And, therefore, that trend, that settled culture is what must be banished, and that is what we Socialists are prepared to do. And in a cycle change we hope to carry out policies that, while they will not banish precariousness altogether, at least the compromise is that in a legislature we can put ourselves at least on the European average, which would be a reasonable objective. On the other hand, the labour reform will be able to be exalted or detested, but the truth is that since its implementation and implementation have been recorded, let's say, indicators I think really worrying. And in fact dismissal, the transformation of indefinite jobs into precarious jobs, the lack of employment as a result of austerity policies... That is, it is a whole policy in general; not only labour reform, but also austerity policies and other neoliberal dogmas that enjoy great preaching, so that sometimes even we can incur certain velocities. But we conjure up to banish that kind of influence. And, in view of what history today shows us, with greater vehemence, with greater depth and searching for instruments that are actually capable. We, if we make the Government a compromise amendment that may seem so low cost is not otherwise, but because we have already carried out transactions and agreements that contaminate and implode the Government to carry out certain agreements, which I have reminded you here and which the Government does not do. Which, if they were fulfilled, would also be a grain of sand. That is, for example, in public procurement, a matter that is also in the debates in this House, on social clauses, subjections to conventions..., that is nothing but strengthening collective agreements and, therefore, negotiation. It can be done. I mentioned an agreement of 30 April, which asked the Government to campaign against fraud, to provide it with more means, to encourage employers not to put jobs and so on. We have no news. Well, we already know that the government in this sort of thing always goes, let's say, with a certain..., I don't know if delay, but behind the times we expect opposition groups. In any case, we know that this is a difficult struggle and that it raises serious problems, especially because we are not really talking only about legal instruments, but we are talking, as I say, about this culture of fraud, and we believe that the Government, to be concrete, should strengthen the means necessary in the labour inspection to combat this fraud in recruitment, which is one of the clearest origins of precariousness. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u124	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Does the missile have to talk? Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u125	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Itxaso, you have cleared the matter of the single contract in a somewhat sad way. It has ended basically by saying that, in the end, the single indefinite contract is a right-wing proposal, and therefore out. Well, I recommend an article recently published in eldiario.es, titled as follows: "Can the single contract be left-wing?". I recommend that you read it, because you change your mind. For us, in this case, it is not important how this idea is defined, it is equally important for us to consider it as a left-wing proposal or a right-wing proposal. The important thing for us is that it is an effective measure. And I believe that, indeed, the introduction in Spain of an indefinite single contract could be an effective measure. I therefore ask you to tell me something more than just that this idea is a right-wing idea, which is basically what you have come to say, for the next intervention in which this matter can be discussed. Mrs Arregi has once again set out an immense array of measures taken by this Government to create employment and put an end to the precarious working environment, which also affects young Basques. Well, a number of measures have been put in place; I ask you about the results of those measures, what results we have achieved over the past three years with those measures that you have put in place. What has been done, basically, is to create weak and precarious jobs, and this at best. The truth is that job insecurity continues. And in that sense I have to say that the transactional that you have signed is very consistent with your political postulates and with what you have been saying in the last few days. Last week, exactly a week ago, Mrs Mendia in the general policy debate said something that powerfully caught my attention. He told the Lehendakari that she was not responsible for the existing unemployment in Euskadi, which was a way of telling the Lehendakari that, in fact, the Basque Government can do nothing to create stable, dignified and quality employment, and therefore can do absolutely nothing to fight unemployment. And the truth is that this transactional that you have signed, if we look at the content, goes in that line. In fact, nothing can be done at all. The only thing that can be done is to continue to work on the same line as hitherto (there are no new ideas, no ideas of scope to end this scourge), and the second is to inform this Parliament every six months of these proposals put forward by the Basque Government. Anyway, this certainly seems sad to me. I find it sad in the case of the Basque Government, and I find it very sad that a firm opposition group is trading with the Basque Nationalist group. The truth is that the transactional is precarious, like the job you create. Conclusions of the debate, of this soporific debate on the other hand: the Basque Government is unable to fight unemployment and job insecurity. The Basque Government has no new ideas or proposals, so the result will be the same as hitherto: more precarious work. There seems to be no solution. Third conclusion of the debate: the Socialist Group closes ranks with the Basque Nationalist Party and has no ideas. Mrs Mendia has already said: "Lehendakari is not responsible for the unemployment that exists in Euskadi". So the outcome of the debate is zero, it's a waste of time. The Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party have no ideas to end precariousness and unemployment. So what we have is basically an inert government, and the Socialist Group, in short, as a group of this opposition, we note that what it has become is a mere palm tree of this government. Certainly sad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u126	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Too much of a lady.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. We have clearly stated that we are opposed to the reform of the state, and not only expressed, but even tried to cancel Congress, but we know how we are and where we are. That's not enough. Pure criticism isn't enough. I have already told you, in the first round, how far the Government has been directed to strengthen both young and young men's employment. Not enough? We agree, and the chief physician accepts that. And that's why the President himself said he would continue at the general policy meeting and... A Respect al Program First Option, lo que dijo que que que iba a incremenen la match in no 50%. No sé de donde ha sacado sod los datos que ha dicho mouth. And he says that the compromise amendment we have reached in paragraph 1 is a declaration of intent. For we think it is important, because one of the complaints that youth always moves us, and also the representatives of the EGK, who you mentioned to the issue of errezetak, who have already presented it to us, say that many times programs are carried out, or that programs that have to do with youth are put in place, without having taken them into account or without having spoken to them. We therefore believe that the commitment, and to urge the Government, when they are going to launch such programmes, to talk to youth representatives beforehand, seems important to us and seems to us to be a step forward, so that we can truly ensure that the measures put in place are effective and that the situation of youth unemployment and the precarious situation in which it is located can be improved. Mr. Bixen Itxaso has told us about a decalogue, that within that decalogue one of the points is the reform of the Workers' Statute... I guess all this is already looking at the election campaign and changes to be presented in the Congress of Deputies, I guess in the next legislature, I say. He says things that... Well, he's been mentioning several issues within that decalogue that I think are for discussion and debate in the Congress of Deputies rather than in the Basque Parliament, but that the Basque Government can do things. But he hasn't mentioned any of us at all. And I have told you about a series of specific programmes and actions that the Basque Government has put in place, specifically aimed at improving the employability of young people. And the truth is that in the second round he has mentioned it, but in the first part he has devoted himself to talking about precariousness in general and very little or nothing about the subject of youth in particular, which I believe was the subject of today's initiative. Mr Maneiro said that the criticism of labour reform is good but insufficient, and we agree with that. We share it, and that is why it said in the first speech that the Government was being proactive, is taking action. That they're not enough, that we have to continue... totally agree. But measures are being taken, and there they are. We have reported them, they have come to explain the councilman in committee, etc. Mrs Llanos, labour reform certainly has not helped. We were sold as if it was going to be the panacea for the solution of the issue of unemployment, of the situation of precariousness... Man, you will have to admit that, of course, you have not solved the situation in which Spain is at all. We agree that what the Government has to do is to use competition and active employment policies, and we believe that in this it is acting, that it has to continue, that it will have to continue to take action and that we will have to achieve among all those who are more effective and to put an end to the situation in which we find ourselves. Totally agree. But the government is working. And we share with you when I said that what needs to be done is to create the conditions to lower youth employment rates. All in all, the hand to be able to reach agreements and to achieve effective measures in this regard, and also to improve the working conditions of young people, of course. The Government and the group that supports him will continue to do so, and we have already reached out to him for that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. And finally, Mrs. Llanos, representing the Basque Popula Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Zulaika, I don't do maximalism. This is not going to give a doorway to measures to improve the employability of young people, no. It is going to give a door to your proposal, which is not the same. I don't know, that custom you have of praising yourself what Basque society thinks, what young people think... So, it leads them to maximalistic positions, saying that if you give a door to your initiative you are giving a door to the rest of the groups to support effective measures to improve youth employability. No, no, He gives a doorway to his initiative, and I have explained it to him further. I have not made an amendment precisely because you are only referring to one point. Pick up the witness! It just seemed like they were in a government agreement! Mr. Toña says, "It's the fault of labor reform," and you say, "Well, it's the fault of labor reform!" and I don't ask for anything else. And I don't ask for anything else." With regard to the Socialist Party, he said that some responsibility would have been placed on them. Man, eight years until 2012, and before 1996 I don't even tell him. Like some responsibility! A lot of responsibility. A lot. And you're talking about worrying indicators. No, there were worrying indicators in 2012, when Mariano Rajoy's government arrived. Those were indeed worrying indicators. And they talk about labour reform, and here it has been said that labour reform has served nothing. Of course it did! To make the labour market more flexible. And I'm not going to go in and talk about it, but, of course, at this moment there is less unemployment than there was when the government of Mariano Rajoy arrived. And we were in the positions we were in Europe and now we are in the positions we are in. If you think there hasn't been an evolution, look, there's no worse blinder than the one who doesn't want to see. And I'm not going to be the one to open his eyes here, because if one has them like this, it's impossible, but, come on, let me tell me we're like 2012... I'm telling you, a stick, because there's something else I can't tell you. "You've reported measures"... Sure! It's just that we didn't have to do it! What is needed is to analyse whether these measures are appropriate. Because when you plan to create jobs for 14,000 young people and then the result is that you have to wonder if they are really effective, or if you don't have to turn around and put in other different measures. Because asking for skills is very good, but it's hard for you to want to move to primary sixth when you haven't passed third. So, that of asking for skills, when we don't know how to exercise what we have... Well, man, first we approve third, we do well what we already have, and then we'll keep asking, Mrs. Arregi. And what you are showing here is that there are measures, four axes, of course budget too (we will not be talking about that in the budget debate), but that they are not generating the expectations that the Basque Government itself gives that is a reality, and that is what they have to do. Not that, when talking about the outside, there is criticism, there is analysis, and when talking about the inside only a relationship is made of what is done, but it is not valued or analyzed if it is done well or if it could be done otherwise for it to arrive. And of course, hand-off, because I think that is a goal for everyone here: to reduce unemployment rates in general, and those of young people in particular, because they are higher, as I say, than the European average, although we are better than in the rest of Spain. With regard to the UPyD amendment, look, it is true that this depends on the Congress of Deputies and the Congress of Deputies has already been declared, and I think it was one of the few measures it put in place according to a lot of political parties: the People's Party, the Socialist Party, the Left Party and the Basque Nationalist Party itself, which, although Mrs Arregi has not said this here, I say, "an experiment of bureaucrats" called it. So, well, it can continue to be debated there, because everyone, well, then, is very free to defend what each political group considers best to achieve the goal, but I tell you that he had a rejection where he had it, and I encourage you, if you trust that, to continue to raise it. And in relation to the amendments, then, look, Mrs Arregi, yours is a phrase that I have a lot of, "What about peace in the world?". Well, that's it. Your amendment, yes, peace in the world, which is very good, but that... And the two meetings are already more of an institutional declaration than an amendment or a motion. But, well, it seems to me very good that you talk to the young people and that according to them you do the measures. Phenomenal. I think we can all agree on that too, but, well, I tell you, that is more an institutional statement than a real proposal. And in relation to the Socialist Party, therefore, it seems that it has already thrown out the towel. He says, "What are we going to ask for, if in total it never fulfills...!". Man, then, to fail, you are the supporter of the Basque Government! Not to fulfill... And if they don't, what do you want, let them inform you that they don't? Well, if they don't, what else does it give you to tell them every six months, every three months, or every month? The point is that what is to be asked is not to be informed that they do not comply, but to be asked to comply. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u130	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Since the discussion is over, we will vote for the original text of Mrs. Zulaika Portillo's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the supporters of 19; the contrary, 52; white; 1, 1; Abspentsion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u131	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we'll vote for the middle-term correction of the Basque Socialists and the Eucabertarians signed by the teams... Just a minute. [[Berber]] Try it and... Is it now? Is the light okay? Well, to the vote. Euska Socialists and Eubertians have signed the media correction that the teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 42; counters, 20; white, 0; abstaining, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-01.u132	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Next, I'll read an institutional statement. Quiet, please. "The institutional expression of the World of Women: "One. The Eusgarchian endeavors to show his support to the Women's Common-wealth, and compromises him to work for equality, and that he may employ all the measures he has in his hands in order to obtain the following ends: "As to violence, we must work to set up performances in order to start the protocol, and we must work in order to sensitize and prepare the violence around the machista. In the same way, we are protected by the protocol of the Women's Marches, and we are engaged in agreeing with the complaints which are made for the accusation and condemnation of Sexist violence. "Working to improve the lives of caregivers, promoting public services that facilitate care work. "Work taking into account sexual diversity, gender identity, and work against lesbians, transphobia, racism and phobia against people with disabilities. "To promote the empowerment of women, as well as to promote the creation of women's networks and collectives. "Two. The Eusunian law encourages all women to participate in the March World of Women, in the course of October, and in the actions that are to be done. "And three. This statement will be sent to the European Secretary of the Women's March." It's just that, since the subject list has been exhausted, I look upon the whole meeting as an end. It was two and six in the afternoon.
