ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start the list of subjects, remember that Mrs. Lurierie has delegated her vote. First point in theme list: "Idration of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, David Lachaga Ugarttha in relation to the state of mutual compatibility of the legislative. Discipline and final resolution. Some member of the board wants to vote for the judgment... ? Some group favors or against... ? That's all we're going to vote for. We're gonna vote for the union committee's resolution. Except the members of the legislative society, which is related to the Constitution, we can all vote. We can vote... [[Berber]] We vote again, okay? Please save the members of the legislative society which is related to the judgment, all the rest of the community. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 67; the votes are 68; the supporters 68; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; abstensions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u1	The judgment is unanimous and approved. Second point on the subject list: "Extradiction of the Committee of Investuration and Country Policy, in the process of ripping out the non-commissional hydrocarbulus, and breaking into a hydraulic break, or fracing, in order to protect the environment from the legal proposition of the supplementary measures. Discipline and final resolution. The group's next round from the small to the big one. Miss, Mr. Maniro. yours is the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u2	Yes, thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr Lehendakari and people who have come to hear the debate on this issue on which we have discussed quite a bit in recent years in this Parliament, the issue of fracking. I will explain briefly what our position is, and I will also explain what our vote will definitely be on this issue. We, as we have repeatedly pointed out in the debates that have taken place in this House – and not only in this House, but in the Congress of Deputies – do not advocate the total prohibition of fracking. We have always repeated the same arguments, which I do not know if they are more or less popular, but in any case they are those arguments on which we firmly believe. In our view, all energy sources have drawbacks, and obviously also fracking as a technique for extracting non-conventional hydrocarbons. What would be involved is not a total ban on this technique, but rather that, as proposed by the European Parliament, fracking is prohibited where its use carries a high risk. It is therefore a matter of demanding legal regulation, in order to reduce the risk as much as possible. We already know that no source of energy or extraction technique has zero risk. It is therefore a question of minimizing that risk. But in any case we reject the total ban. Therefore, on March 6, 2013, we presented a non-law proposal in the Congress of Deputies to ask the Government of Spain to regulate fracking, and in that initiative we pointed out some things like the following. The cost of energy is one of the fundamental factors of economic competitiveness, with a direct impact on the country's economy and employment, i.e. on the well-being of society as a whole. Our energy dependence makes it essential, therefore, to explore, research and realistically assess our hydrocarbon resources, and the technical, economic and environmental viability of their exploitation, both of conventional and non-conventional resources, such as fracking gas or the extraction of methane into coal layers. Independent and international bodies have warned and continue to warn that massive hydraulic fracturing techniques can cause severe environmental damage if they are not carried out with sufficient preventive guarantees. However, in our view, the solution is not to prohibit fracking or to prevent the investigation of its possibilities and consequences, but to establish strict legal criteria for authorizing exploration and exploitation with minimal and reparable environmental damage. There are no sources of energy that do not have any kind of negative environmental impact, including energy sources known as renewables, so the mission of energy policy, and the mission of any public and institutional representative, would be to choose the most suitable available sources in terms of efficiency, cost, environmental impact and sustainability, constantly regulating and evaluating the conditions and requirements for research, exploration and, where appropriate, exploitation of the resource. It is absolutely necessary to know the potential energy resources of the subsoil, and under no circumstances should research and exploration be prohibited, in our view. Following these principles, UPyD has tabled and maintains a series of partial amendments to this ILP, in particular eleven, a series of amendments that we have recorded in this Parliament, in order to defend all these principles and to ensure that exploration, research and exploitation, via fracking (where appropriate, exploitation), are carried out with all environmental guarantees. In any case, finally, these principles, these ideas have not finally been included in the legal text that is being voted on today. Nor has there been any room to negotiate with the rest of the groups, and the fact is that EH Bildu, the Socialist Group and the People's Group have finally agreed to veto fracking in Euskadi. We are going to abstain. In any case, we will remain prepared, as I always believe we have been, to continue to discuss this matter with the rest of the groups, as often as necessary. And, of course, also to listen to the citizenry, what exactly does it think about this issue. To inform the citizen, and to listen to the citizen. That is so, we have committed ourselves and continue to commit ourselves to discussing this issue realistically, rigorously and as scientifically as possible, and moving away as far as possible from populist or electoral impulses, which can give votes, but do not solve people's problems. Anyway, these are our principles, these are our ideas. There are our amendments. They will not go forward, but, in any case, there are the ideas that we firmly believe in. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u3	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is... You don't have to participate. Basque Socialists... There's no need to be part of it. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Mazzu, on the team shift.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u4	Good morning, everyone. Good morning, president and chief physician. And particularly good day to all the people who have come to follow this discussion. This discussion today is not a legal or legal discussion. Yes, I know we've come to accept a law, and I'll go through it later, and then I'll go through the technical or legal aspects of that law, but to me it's a history of the public struggle, because with the text we're going to accept today, fracing - because it can't be past in Aranka, Bizana and Gipu. But if this be so, it will be in the presence of the public in the absence of the Administration, because they were organized, possessed, and mobilized before the Administration's lies, and secretly undertook the project which they intended to carry on in a very secret manner, by adapting the conduct of political parties, and stopping the failure. So today is not the victory of a political group, of two, or of three, today is the victory of the people. But what really matters is the overthrow of the street, the mobilization of society, because it's really a model and it's going to be your fight. I have at first said that this is not a legal or merely a juridic discussion, and that is not, because it is a very political discussion. Because it's a discussion about the senior model, too. I am aware that only this dispute for some who will vote for this proposal today is failure and failure. Or, in front of him, what measures of justice we must take, is only a dispute about failure. But for us, the Basque Country for the Collector, the deep discussion is the example of energy, too. We've been very clear from the start, we've always had the same attitude. not fracing, because we have to overcome the model that rests on fossil fuels. I think we were the only ones on this subject who have kept the same opinion from beginning to end. Not Facking, because fighting a climate change is harmful in the fracking. Not Francking, because the economic interests of a few are placed above the general interest of the community with the fracing. Not Fracking, because our neurogenic independence will not come from fossil fuels, but from dropping consumption and retractable energy. Not Fracing, because the future is re-successable, but not the retals that are in the hands of oligoligoligoli or of a few companies, but the retivating energy which is under the control of the people. Franking - because the last tail-tails of an exhausted fossil fuel model are the most dangerous and contagious tail-tails: so that we warn ourselves: Today, in the energy field, our bar doesn't end with today's vote, because we've got a lot of energy patterns to discuss until the end of the law. Now let's look at legal text and accept legal text that will be accepted today. First of all, we have to consider why a law is necessary to stop failure. In this case the threat does not come from Madrid, and in this case the threat is much nearer: In this case, in the Lake, in the Industrial and Energy Department. Because it's necessary to remember that Araban, Bizka, and Gipuzian Friking, has been driven by public funds and resources. What a paradox! The people, people, people, families, families, to steal the hours to deal with them, because they've done a lot of hard work in many countries to introduce the legislative initiative, and while the funk is spending money on the fruit of those people's taxes. At least the paradox! It has been very paradoxical, very paradoxical to see how thousands of citizens have had to steal their time from their work, their family, their friends, their leisure, in order to stop fracking, and, in the meantime, a government dedicating the money of those citizens to drive fracking. The illustrated despotism of fracking : Everything for the people, but without the people. And, yes, paid for by the people. So we can make all the legal discussions we want to do this day, but there is another thought ahead of us, which is a thought that until this day, when you're making love to us, it encourages and encourages you to do so, and that's why the people had to introduce a legislative people, and then we political groups, do a legal exercise to get out of the most efficient law. That's what I'm saying, but at any moment, if the SHESA company wanted it, we could have finished it much faster with the fracing, the Uranka and the Gipuz. Thus, as I have said, when the people of 1030,000 asked us by a legislative initiative to forbid the fracing, we set to work. We were in possession of the narrow legal route of a general debate, and began to seek out efficient ways. A general debate would allow the HIVA to make the fracing of the Facling, because it would then be recurrid, and its application would be suspended. So our purpose was clear: the use of our jurisdictions to shut down the door, and, by the way, to form a system of decisions that ought to be made in energy, to spread debates, to promote a public discussion around the Euscalomian strategy, which is not political and social. We agree with the rights approved by the legislative labors. In the first place, as Catalonia has done, because we use the proper jurisdiction of the organization of the soil, others because we can establish additional measures of protection in the area. On the other hand, because we use the Water Act to include an organizational tool of land (accipherence maps of the Baripherians) as an additional measure of protection. And finally, we force the figure of the strategic evaluation that is very important to the fracing. This is not a invention of the EH Collectors, who, owing to the disputes open at the level of Europe, demanded this in the recommendation given to the European Committee in the year 2014. We have received this recommendation, and have forced it to all the plans or strategys that foresee the failure. In this way, without the strategic evaluation, that is to say, the strategic evaluation of the Euscal Autonomia, which is not a public discussion about its social, economic, and anbiental consequences, must at this moment be made at the moment of the evangelical strategy of the Errgenia. So, fracking, we can take a very important step away from Bizkai, Araba, and from Gipulia today. Besides, it looks like it's going to be made with a large majority. But I do not ask for it in my name, or in the name of EH Collector, for the thousand citizens who claim the legislative of the people, I require it by their consent, that what would certainly be most exemplary would be a unanimous consent to accept this law, because the citizens of all political colours and ideology signed the legislative of the people. Let us therefore receive the text of all the political colours which are represented here. That's what they asked us to do, and I think that's what we're supposed to do today. Do not use modern history as an excuse, because it is not necessary to announce a mortatoria, because a press conference is sufficient (whether of predaria or of Tapia). It's enough with a press conference saying you're refusing your permit to go to Gran Ena. That's the most effective modernization, and that doesn't require a law. In conclusion, once more praise the people's struggle. For several days I ask myself what I do in this sacrifice, but it deserves it on days like this, and it deserves to get out of bed, to come to this Chamber, and to say with pride and justice: Long live the people's struggle and the Basque Country freed from failure!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u5	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Eubertarians. Mr. Carroll, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. What is the best example of law to protect the society of euscals? A pattern with three extra amendments? Or the B pattern, added five years' delay to these three addition ones? There are two options, but only a standard of law can be admitted: A pattern, with three addons of addition, or the B pattern, added to those three additional ones, with five years' delay. As a model B that will be accepted today, with a 5-year-old stretch added. That's why we vote for abstinence. Today we have the opportunity to pass the best law that protects our Basque citizenship, and for the Basque Nationalist Party we will not get it. That's why we're going to abstain. Today we have voted on two models of law, and we are going to vote on two models to answer this question: What model of law is the one that best protects Basque citizens?, model A, of three additional amendments, or model B, with the same three additional amendments plus a five-year moratorium? Only one model law can be passed, and there are two options: this model A, of the three amendments, and this model B, with the additional five-year moratorium. The Basque Nationalist Party believes that the law that best protects Basque citizenship is going to be passed today, plus our five-year moratorium, with these three years of possible extension and with the creation of a scientific commission in collaboration with the State Administration. This and not another is the one we believe best protects Basque citizenship. We are told that delay produces a more legal uncertainty than the laws which are now granted to the State, and that it was announced to them in the course of their two years' delay that there might be an opposite of the Constitution. What we're not told is later: One, that Andalluice had never developed and accepted the law of extension, and therefore we don't know what would happen-two of us, that our delay is connected with the state with a scientific committee composed of the two administrations of the Basque and the State-three, that our delay is our only law in five or eight years, which guarantees the Eudacinacing, whether the law be accepted or not. We are told that a moratorium generates more legal uncertainty with the State to the law adopted today, and that already in Andalusia they were warned of the possible unconstitutionality in their attempt to moratorium for two years. What they don't tell us is that Andalusia never developed and passed its moratorium law; therefore, we don't know what would have happened. Secondly, our moratorium is a moratorium in collaboration with the State, with a scientific commission composed of both administrations (the Basque Government and the State). And three, that our moratorium is the only law that guarantees the total prohibition of fracking in the Basque Country for the next five or eight years. The law passed doesn't. Therefore, we continue to believe that our moratorium would have completed very well this law that we are going to pass today, so as to better protect Basque citizens among all. But it is true that this period of time has a virtue to pass this law, and that there are groups that no longer only comply with the laws of the State, but also worry about not violating them. I believe that this image of protection against possible unconstitutionality is also good for Basque citizens to visualize this protection of certain political groups. Still, we believe from the Basque Nationalist Party, which already has a long history in this defense of our competences, that something more could have been done. And, by delving a little deeper into these four years, today we will close a stage that officially began there by October 2011. So, from here, first of all, I want to thank the platform for all its commitment over these four long years. I believe that they have done a job and that they have been able to mobilize the whole of society, at least the great Alavesa majority, because it was the most at risk. So, in that respect, all that selfless work is there. It is true that we have had meetings until just last week, even with the platform itself and the parties, for trying to achieve here the maximum consensus of this law, for also trying to shape that principle that we had at the beginning of the presentation, of the parties that we had tabled amendments, between the Socialist Party, EH Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party, if we did not reach this plenary today, so that everyone would defend their amendments and not try to seek what is a consensus. That consensus is already there. Then, for that part, our congratulations, but we do believe that our moratorium would have been much better complemented by this law. It's not about... We all know what legal uncertainty is. We have tried to put some rigour to this matter, and we have also been criticized in abundance for this fact. But the reality is that until May this month we still received reports from the State on what we intended to do. That is to say, when we wanted to run and pass this law in January, the important thing is that over the last few years this law, with these unconstitutionalities that it has been, has shown that both the platform and all political groups accept that this path that had been introduced, that law of total prohibition, could not be adopted in this Parliament. In that regard, it has been positive that all groups have been able to seek a solution, and we know that it is not an easy solution, it is complicated legally. Even the two jurists we presented on the list of appearances, in the end, because of the great political burden that has taken on this subject, did not want to come, although some were university professors and had written several articles on this subject of fracking. It is true that today is already the last chance of this first stage that we are going to close today, to pass two models of law. It is also true, as we said last week, that we cannot ask – not because we cannot, but because there is no material time and we do not have that custom – those 100,000 or 103,000 signatures that have submitted a law of total prohibition, which model of the two models would like us to adopt today in Parliament. Since that is not possible, we also ask the platform, and the platform also, logically with all the great work it is doing, it does not have those legal emblems either, and it is already in the hands of the political parties that today we represent this Basque Parliament what it is to pass this law. In this respect, I think it is one more step, it is a good path, but it is true that we thought that it could be better complemented by these amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u7	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. On the answering shift, Mr. Maniro. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u8	Yes, thank you, President. It was said from EH Bildu's group that this has been a story of struggle, and it is true. There have been thousands of Basque citizens who have recently tried to defend their ideas and collected signatures at a certain time to defend in Euskadi the prohibition of fracking, and we obviously recognize this. But, of course, what we do not advocate is that there is a single party in Euskadi, or that there is a monolithic position in relation to a question, and by EH Bildu we are asked to adopt this law unanimously. And we can't do that, because we don't agree. Then there will also be debate on the law of shared custody, which collected signatures, thousands of signatures as well, and I think it would be unfair in that case to ask political groups to vote in favour of a law that they do not share. And, therefore, we cannot vote in favour of a law that we do not share. We recognize the work carried out by the platforms, we recognize their struggle, and we also recognize the political groups that have during all these years defended their ideas with conviction, with rigour, with seriousness, and that have tried to defend them in this Parliament. We also respect those political groups which have changed their political position, as is the case with the Socialist Group. He defended fracking at a certain time, but, possibly as a result of some kind of internal reflection, he later defended the opposite position. We respect this too, we have no problem. We respect all the debates in this Parliament, provided they are serious debates, rigorous debates and scientific debates, especially when we are dealing with such an important issue as this. I would therefore like to express my sincere thanks to all the political groups and all the Basque citizens who have consistently defended their ideas over the past few years and also defended a certain position on this issue. We too have tried to do so. We are not going to support the law because we do not share it, but, of course, when these debates have taken place in this way, they have become enriching debates. It has certainly not always been so, populist arguments or demagogues have often been used, but, in any case, we are left with those debates which have indeed been enriching, and we recognize that. I believe that policy in general needs objectivity and seriousness, and that is what we have tried to do on this issue. We have no problem at all with being alone, and I think the adviser here today from the Basque Government is finally only going to be accompanied by this group in part, aren't we? Because, listening to the representative of the Basque Nationalist group, I think we can say that his speech has been quite dubious or dubious, but in any case we also respect him. We have tried to defend our ideas. We are in a majority or a minority, we have no problem, and in the future, when we deal with this issue, we will always act in the same way, we are in a minority or we are in a majority, we lose or we do not lose the votes. Therefore, congratulations to all the citizens and to all the political groups who throughout this time have wanted to bring to this House a serious and rigorous debate. In this particular case I am surprised that the representatives of the Socialist Group and the Group of the European People's Party did not wish to speak in this debate and defend their law, but in any case I understand that they will speak in explanation of vote. Although I think it would have been most reasonable for you to have intervened in the debate, I say, to defend the law that will be adopted with your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u9	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Mazzu... ? He mustn't speak. Mr. Carro... ? He mustn't speak. Now that the discussion's over, we'll vote. What we're going to vote for first will be a number of articles of Dictates introduced by teams of euscripts. We can vote for the amendments of the US patriots. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the parties are 26; the opponents are 47; white, 0; abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u10	Therefore, these corrections have not been accepted. Next, we'll vote for the Misto-UPyD crew's corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters 1, 73; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u11	The corrections are not accepted. We will next vote for the articles of rights, i.e., 1, 3, 4, and 6. Articles of correction: 1, 3, 4 and 6. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstations are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u12	So these articles have been accepted. Next, the articles of Dictate, without correction, are agreed upon, viz. 2, 5, First, and Second Adversary regulations, impeachive and final regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstations are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u13	The articles told by the judgment are accepted. The first correction of the Misto-UPyD team is on the vote, he says. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters 1, 73; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u14	This first correction was not therefore accepted. The sixth and 27th of the Euncierians agree to the suffrages, which were made by the explanation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the parties are 26; the opponents are 47; white, 0; abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u15	So they didn't accept it. The names of the laws and expediency of the laws are followed by the next suffrages. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstations are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u16	The law, therefore, was approved in order to wrest the non-conventional hydrocarbulus from the process, and to protect the environment by hydraulic or fracing. [[Applause]] Third point in the theme list... I'm sorry, the vote. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u17	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. The Group of the European People's Party is in favour of proposing additional environmental protection measures for the extraction of non-conventional hydrocarbons and hydraulic or fracking fractures because, with the paper work, what we have done is to adapt the articulation of the law to the title, which was not in the original. The object of the law for which the autonomous communities do have competence. The original text of the legislative initiative expressly prohibited fracking. The courts have already ruled on these prohibitions in other autonomous communities and have been annulled. From the People's Group we have always rejected the false dilemma, the perverse non-fracking dilemma. Since the first debate in this House in February 2012 on the exploitation and exploration of non-conventional hydrocarbons, we have shown concern about how this activity was regulated, how waste was managed, what happens when this activity is to be deployed in areas of high energy value. We have always been committed to exploring and exploiting, where appropriate, the energy resources available to us, but not in any way. Not all areas can accommodate this activity, and we understand from the People's Group that it is necessary to protect those most sensitive areas. One example is the aquifer of Subijana, a reservoir of water of Álava and of our neighbours Vizcaínos (because I don't know if they know, but in the Basque Country the dry zone supplies water to the wet zone), the aquifer of Subijana and permanent and temporary outcrops of its environment to which natural wetlands are associated and in general numerous habitats and species listed at European level by the Habitats Directive. This area is affected by exploration permits. From the People's Group we believe that we should focus our attention on regulating this activity, and insofar as regulatory standards are established the technique will be more or less secure. The United States, a pioneer in fracking technology, has raised environmental requirements especially in two aspects: one concerning the injection procedure, and the other concerning fluid recovery and treatment. We understand from the People's Group that articles 3 and 5 of this law ultimately require technical reports from specialists on the geological, environmental, landscape or socio-economic characteristics of the areas where the fracking activity is to be carried out, and the effects arising therefrom, in addition to the relevant reports on the risk of vulnerability to aquifer pollution. It will be the result of the reports that determines whether the activity is authorised or not, and the corrective measures to be applied. Article 4 states that the Basque energy strategy must have a strategic environmental assessment, as required by the Central Government's Environmental Assessment Act; a law that focuses efforts on those projects where the most significant impacts are expected and includes the obligation to submit projects requiring the use of hydraulic fracture techniques to environmental impact assessment. This law allows plans and programmes that contemplate the hydraulic fracture to have a strategic environmental assessment. We have voted against the amendments tabled by the Basque Nationalist Group, which are limited to a moratorium on this law. We do not understand from the People's Group how the Basque Nationalist Party, a government group that drives this activity, needs to introduce into a law a moratorium that can de facto do. We don't understand. We also know that the moratorium will be appealed. So, what establishes, what improvement, what model – because a model of law has been discussed here –..., what model does the Basque Nationalist group, the government group, propose? It's absurd. Really absurd. It lacks legal certainty. The courts have already ruled on this. It is therefore difficult to understand. This government has no model. The model is occultism, not giving information. These projects are from 2006 and earlier. Therefore, what has been missing here is transparency. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u18	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Basque Socialists represent the group. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u19	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Firstly, I would like to say that the Socialist Group is involved in the explanation of vote in compliance with the agreement from the beginning to the end. Those who take part in the meetings know why they are speaking in explanation of vote or in favour or against. Having said that, I will say that today finally concludes the legislative process on fracking, an issue that we have discussed on many occasions and an issue on which the Socialist Group has of course maintained its position. Because, contrary to what some have intended to say here over time, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has never said yes to fracking. And if not, let's look at the hemerotheques. We conclude this process in a very different scenario from what existed when we received in the House the popular legislative initiative. That is why I think it is fair to recognize parliamentary work within and outside the paper, it is fair to recognize work with the platform and the platform, since this has been the result that we voted on today. Today's vote, from the disbelief of some, shows the possibility and the courage of reaching agreements between different people; it shows the importance of the meaning of the vote and the making of numbers without talking to the parliamentary groups before. We were parliamentary groups that started from very different points and that we were able to reach an agreement that responds to what the platform proposed to us and that responds to what we believe is best for Basque society. The Socialist Group has put forward three conditions for being able to support this ILP: one, that the text to be adopted was legal; one, that there was respect for the powers of the Autonomous Community; and the other, that the text guaranteed legal, environmental and also health security for Basque citizens. Today we have a secure law for the environment, a legally secure law, and a law far from good intentions, because from the beginning the Socialist Group ran away from headlines for a day. We knew parliamentary texts adopted in other autonomous communities with a duration of 24 hours. We knew that the generic ban on fracking took us to court the day after it was approved by the State. We knew what Catalonia had passed since its Soil Law, and we understood that the Catalan way was the way that could lead us to protect the Basque environment, to remove it from fracking and, of course, not to be laid down by the Constitution the next day. We set ourselves clear limits, we set ourselves red lines, and we work on the possibility of the agreement. And today's is the result of everyone's effort. We've all given in. This is not the law that the Socialist Parliamentary Group would probably have introduced, but it is the best law that we have been able to agree between the EH Bildu Group, the People's Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Group. It is true that we knew the amendments of all the groups, and we voted accordingly. We voted against UPyD, as we did not share its political position, and we voted against a moratorium that we understood to be out of time and absolutely electoral. It has not been easy, but today we have passed a law that is the first specific law in Spain that legislates fracking policy. We have passed a law that moves away from partisan obsessions with a clear objective: environmental, legal and health protection. We have adopted a law that guarantees the protection of the environment, and we have adopted a clear, concrete and objective law. away from decisions in the medium and short term. And this law is a law that comes from the hand of the platform, which brought it to Parliament with 103,000 signatures of Basque citizens, but today it is the law of the Basque Autonomous Community. It is neither the law that brought the platform nor the law that some want to defend as their own. I think we should congratulate ourselves on that, and I think we can also do that. Today, Euskadi is closer to its citizens and is further away from the interests of one's side. Today Euskadi gets away from fracking. What we hope is that this Government will comply with the law, as it cannot be otherwise, and, of course, that we will learn from the ILPs about what has happened with the ILP that brought this platform. It is an ILP that started from mathematical accounts, believing that we were going to reach the end in a certain way. It is true that this initiative could have been adopted in January; it was also a little early, but it could have been adopted earlier. Trying to manage the times through time extensions, when it wasn't necessary, has, I think, led us to lose a few months, when this could already be advanced. And it is fair to say that today is the law of all, but of course it is also fair to say that some of us have done more than others. The May elections marked a concrete moment. On 15 May, a moratorium was presented that was absolutely electoral, believing that some numbers were going to give them. And what you've given in the end is that when you work inside and outside the paper the results are what they are, and between very different political groups we've been able to reach an agreement. And in the end it is true that some have felt obliged at least to abstain, because they are not able to vote against it. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u20	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Third point in theme list: "A dispensation of the Confederation, Security, and Justice Committee, concerning the Confederation of the Family, or Adversation of the Family Cases. Discipline and final resolution. We're going to a team shift. Missto-UPyD's next round. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u21	Thank you, President. This is also a story of struggle. Finally today, four years after the ILP came to this Parliament, we are going to pass the Basque law of shared custody. It's a historic day for thousands of Basque parents who have been fighting for years so that a moment like this could finally come true, and that moment has come. And it has come thanks to so many anonymous citizens who have been working for so many years to make possible and real a Basque law in this case, of shared custody. And it has come thanks to the extraordinary work of associations such as Kidetza, La Terraza or iQual, who have fought for so long to defend – with immense patience, by the way, and blunt and enlightening arguments – shared custody. And it has come because this Basque Parliament has arrived an ILP signed by more than 80,000 Basques who with cold, rain and snow were for months of winter informing the citizens and collecting signatures throughout the Basque Country. There were even some brave men who were encouraged to carry out some hunger strike. Thank you, really, all of them. And we express our most sincere solidarity with all those who have been suffering for a long time from the absence of a law of shared custody, and therefore suffering from terribly unfair situations with which we hope to end definitively thanks to this law. We cannot look elsewhere when there have been so many citizens who have suffered so much in recent years for not having a shared custody law. By passing this law we are truly approaching the real problems of the people, and in particular we are defending the right of minors to have an equal relationship with both parents after divorce and separation, and we are also defending the right of the father and mother to care, educate and support their children after the breakdown of the couple. It is about defending the rights of minors and protecting them in the conflicts of couples. Shared custody is that legal situation which provides that, in the event of a breakdown in cohabitation, both parents alternate in the exercise of the rights and obligations with respect to their minor children, establishing a cohabitation regime that allows them to relate to them for equal periods of time to the extent possible, in a rational manner and, in any case, taking into account the best interests of the minor. His claim, his defense, we consider that he is of pure common sense and justice. We, beyond supporting this law as it has finally remained, including the compromise that we signed a few minutes ago by the People's Group, the Basque Nationalist Group and a server, keep some amendments alive. Among them, the 196 additional first provision, which reads as follows: "Within six months of the publication of this law, the competent department of the Basque Government will launch an information and guidance service on family mediation and co-parental counselling programmes and services in the family courts of San Sebastián, Bilbao and Vitoria". And the second additional provision of 197: "Within six months from the publication of this law, the competent department of the Basque Government will design and implement a programme to expand the number of family courts and psychosocial teams in Euskadi". On the part of UPyD there has been a clear intention to improve the regulation of psychosocial teams, to ensure that the exercise of their functions has sufficient guarantees and is exercised under criteria of strict professionalism, thus avoiding any shadow of suspicion about their decisions. Although the amendments we had tabled in this regard could not finally be incorporated into the text, we are committed to continuing to work towards proper regulation of psychosocial teams. Amendment 200, additional fourth provision: "within six months of the publication of this law, the competent government department will design and implement a programme for the expansion of family mediation services in Euskadi". Additional provision 5 (201): "Within six months from the entry into force of this law, a social security fund will be launched in the Basque Country for situations of non-payment of maintenance". This was a contribution made by the proponents, and although it has not been accepted, we consider it to be of great importance, since it is an amendment designed, like the spirit of the whole law, to protect the child, to ensure that his or her needs will be met in any case. In any case, and apart from these amendments which have not been accepted, we are satisfied, because as from the adoption of this law shared custody will be a general rule in Euskadi, as is clearly deduced from article 9.3 of the law. In addition, this law resolves fairly well all matters related to the issue, from maintenance, family expenses and extraordinary expenses to the use of housing, among others. Perhaps something more could have progressed, but the truth is that we have been able to reach the agreement we have been able to reach. And we have obviously relied on the absolutely indispensable cooperation of the Basque People's Group and the Basque Nationalist Group, to which I thank most sincerely for the work done in this presentation. In any case, it is approved that shared custody will be the general rule when separations and divorces occur, and that their non-concession will require explicit justification. It's justice and the best for all. And why do I say that it's justice and that it's the best thing for everyone? Because it is shown, in view of the things that have happened in recent years, that shared custody better respects the principle of equality between women and men, eliminates the dynamics of winners and losers, promotes co-parentality and collaboration in affective, educational and economic aspects. It is the system that would best respect the right of the child to maintain personal relations and direct contact with both parents and on a regular basis. And it can help to avoid negative feelings of minors, such as guilt. It is the system that would best guarantee and guarantee a true equality of rights, opportunities and treatment between women and men in raising, educating, enjoying and taking responsibility for all the orders of their children, beyond their breakdown as a couple. It is the system that would best avoid clearly unfair situations of inequality that are currently occurring and that have been occurring in recent times. By the way, as I said at first, not seeing these unjust situations, or seeing them and not trying to avoid them, is in our view absolutely unforgivable. And because, say what the language manipulators say, shared custody is a profoundly progressive measure. There has been progress in recent times; various autonomous laws have progressed in the right direction. The need to promote shared custody and to defend the shared custody of minors in separation or divorce processes has been approved by various institutions: the Ararteko, but also different Spanish legislative assemblies, provincial parliaments, dozens of municipalities, and the Spanish Senate itself at the time. Today, therefore, we pass the Basque law of shared custody in the Basque Parliament. It is therefore a historic day. However, the battle must continue, and we continue in the struggle from UPyD. Sooner than later, we will achieve a national law of shared custody that will do justice in any part of our country. That moment has not yet arrived, we are still halfway there. We've got a Basque law of shared custody. That is why I say that we continue to fight until there is also a national law of shared custody that does justice to so many anonymous citizens who have suffered so much for so many years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u22	Thank you. Isiltasuna. Mesedity, isiltasuna...! Messedity! Messedity! Please, I'm asking you to be quiet. There will be time for applause, but please, in all debates keep quiet, okay? Representative of the population. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief. Good day to all of you here. We may say today that it is a great day for associations, collectives, and the law required by society. First of all, I want to thank Kidgea because you've agreed to the purpose of this law to make fun of it. I thank you for the attempts made to collect signatures, and we're all conscious that we had a problem in this matter, and we had a subject to do nothing. We all agreed that the best law should be made. Today is an important day, because a law widely demanded by associations, collectives and society in general is passed. First of all, I would like to thank the proponent of the initiative, Kidetza, and also the rest of the associations that are also present here today, who have all shared the objective of this law. And also thank you for the effort that has been made to collect signatures for this popular legislative initiative and to make us all aware that it was a pending issue and a pending subject. I also wanted to thank all the groups, especially those we support and approve of this initiative and make it possible for it to go ahead, but also the others, because I believe that if there has been a common objective among all the groups represented in this House, apart from the positions of each of them, it has been the shared objective of drawing up the best possible law. Shared custody is the most appropriate option for social reality. It should be noted in this respect that the regulatory framework has been clearly overtaken by this very social reality. The 2005 legislation regulated, as we all know, shared custody with the need for an agreement between the two parties on the one hand, and the mandatory report of the Prosecutor's Office on the other. This regulation made shared custody absolutely exceptional, and the jurisprudence itself has been correcting this obsolete regulation, and aside, as I say, from the demand and needs of society. And, ladies and gentlemen, the political representatives are precisely to respond to those needs, problems and demands that arise in society. One of them, this one. I think it is very important to comment here today on the wording of article 8 of this law, where the possibility of vetoing shared custody is finally eliminated. Each parent separately, or by mutual agreement, may request the judge, in the interests of the children, that the custody and custody of the minor or incapacitated children be exercised in a shared manner, or by one of them alone. Therefore, as the law expressly states, the opposition of one of the parents – because this is also reflected – will not be an obstacle or sufficient reason not to grant shared custody in the interests of the child. And the judge, at the request of the party, shall adopt shared custody provided that it is not detrimental to the interests of the minors and in accordance with a number of circumstances. As can also be seen, this law is absolutely guaranteeing, and it all revolves around safeguarding the interests of the child, as it could not otherwise be. Jurisprudence has also established that the system of shared custody should be considered as normal rather than exceptional, and has also established that it is the best option possible. For us, of course – and we have always made it clear and we have made it clear in all the pronouncements in which this issue has been discussed, and today I want to make it clear also in this rostrum – is the best formula that allows us to combine rights. On the one hand the children's rights to have a balanced relationship with both parents, a balanced relationship, continued, and not to lose the link with them and also with their extended family (because the extended family must also be taken into account). And the right and duty of parents in raising and raising children, their equal co-responsibility and obligation to the children. All this aside from the relationship between parents, because, regardless of whether there has been a process of break-up, separation or divorce, parents and mothers remain parents. And also regardless of the relationship they have. For us, therefore, it is the most advanced option in conciliation, in the famous conciliation and in co-responsibility; it will enable the realization of the right to equality between men and women, and it will also enable the equalization of men and women in the processes of separation, divorce or break-up of coexistence. There is now really going to be a situation of equality on the same level as men and women, and therefore there is also a more direct relationship between the two parents and their families and their children, with extended families, which, as I said, must also be named and taken very seriously into account. And, therefore, for us it is the action that best safeguards minors, in the sense that they are not used as a currency of change in all these processes, which unfortunately there is also much of that. I would also like to point out the aspect of housing, which I think is important as it is regulated: in the absence of agreement, it will be the best thing to safeguard the best interests of the children, preferably the parent to whom custody and custody corresponds, if it is the best option, as I said, in the interests of the children. But there will also be the possibility of granting housing to a parent who does not have custody and custody, if he or she has greater needs for access to housing and this is compatible with the interests of the child. I believe that justice is also being done and the social needs and demands raised in this area are being met. We have maintained two amendments, and I also want to say that we have reached a compromise on the subject of retroactivity. I believe that this is something you were all waiting for, and in this regard the regulatory conventions and judicial measures that have been adopted before will be reviewed, but also as long as any of the parties or the Prosecutor's Office request the application of this rule and the judge considers that the circumstances set out in it are given. As I said, we had tabled two amendments..., we had tabled more amendments, but we have two amendments for this plenary. One issue is that the Basque Government should establish measures in public housing policies, so that in situations of disruption of living together, access to housing for parents in need is given priority, provided that there are children in their care. And another amendment to ensure that, within six months of entry into force, a guarantee fund for situations of non-payment of maintenance payments is put in place, an initiative which has also been advocated by the People's Group over the years through numerous proposals in this House. In short – and I end up not extending anymore – I think it is an important day, and I think that today we are responding to a need that has been raised. We respond to shared custody by echoing that social demand. And I also think today is an important day because in the end I think we're going to make life easier, we're going to solve many delicate situations, and I think that those of us who are political representatives have to be there for that, of course, without a doubt. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u24	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u25	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning to all representatives of associations and citizens who have come to share with us the debate on this law. Well, the Basque Parliament is going to approve...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u26	Gallastegui the andrea, the moment I beat... That cannot be allowed in a parliament. Whoever wants to hear me hear it, and whoever doesn't, let him go away.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u27	As I said, ladies and gentlemen, the Basque Parliament is going to pass a bad law today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u28	Gallastegui's going, now I'm beating. Mesedez eskatzen dizuet... Please... Whoever wants to hear you listen, and if not, you leave. Please continue, Mrs. Gallastegui.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u29	All right. Thank you very much, President. A law which has improved, ladies and gentlemen, throughout the parliamentary process, thanks, among other contributions, to the contributions of the Socialist Group, but which is not enough for it to achieve our endorsement. And we say it's bad for several reasons. Among other things, because it is incongruent, because it is unnecessary, because it is ineffective for the object it seeks, and, worse, because it will produce more problems than solutions. And I'm going to explain myself. Incongruent because, for example, it devotes more legislative development to how family housing is allocated, attributed or available, or "other family housing" (coating this from "other family housing"), among parents than to the regulation of child care itself. Unnecessary because in purity it does not exceed neither the Civil Code nor the jurisprudence of the Supreme Court, nor the interpretative and extensive application by the family courts of such jurisprudence, which has dismissed the exceptionality provided for in article 92, paragraph 8, of the Civil Code. Inefficient for the intended purpose because, despite what is stated in the explanatory statement, Article 9, Mr Maneiro, does not enshrine the system of shared custody either as a preferential or as a general rule, but as an alternative, and this frustrates the nuclear element of the initial proposal. And because it's going to cause more problems than solutions, and I explain myself. I'll give you some illustrative examples. What does "other family homes" mean? Are we going to award the use, for example, of the house of the people of the family of one of the parents, which they share with their parents, brothers, nephews, cousins, etc.? Who constitute the extended family or related persons over whom the judge may determine a right of relationship with minors? First, friends, neighbors, new couples, family of new couples...? What do we talk about when we say that the judge will force an information session on mediation (underlining "will" and intercommission "information session on mediation")? Ladies and gentlemen, mediation by definition is essentially voluntary. Otherwise, it'll be something else, but mediation won't. What does it mean that agreements or judicial measures laid down in a judgment prior to the entry into force of the law can be reviewed? If the circumstances have not changed, if the needs of minors have not changed, if the situation of parents has not changed... That is the crux of the matter, in order to bring about a change in the measures. Or if, for example, in the convention or measures agreed upon in its day, no one, being able to do so (i.e. from 2005), requested shared custody? Anyway, we could go on like this, ad infinitum. But, ladies and gentlemen, we Socialists have always said that sharing care ensures greater protection of the interests of minors. That our children have always been the legal good to protect. We are talking about responsibility, indeed, for the responsible exercise of motherhood, for the responsible exercise of fatherhood, and we are also firmly affirming that the exercise of that responsibility is not only a circumstance that must be taken into account in the procedures of separation or divorce or of breaking up coexistence, but above all, in addition to a right, it is a duty, an obligation that we have, constant in marriage or in the relationship with one another, whatever it is, from the very moment of the birth of our children. So the issue in this matter starts from a premise that today, even if evolution is positive, is not given, and that is nothing other than the exercise of responsibility in family relations on equal terms. Ladies and gentlemen, when the Divorce Act was passed, groups and social sectors represented in this House (we all have memories) described it as an attack on the institution of the family. They didn't believe in divorce, they didn't like it, they even abjured it. However, we socialists held back then and now hold that it is the rule that extends rights and obligations to the most private sphere, to the sphere of these vital projects of coexistence, to those that they cherish and endure, and also to those that fail, whatever the type of family or union. And this law, our Divorce Law, which overcomes with note any assessment of progressism in comparative law, has been adapting, ladies and gentlemen, to the demands produced by the evolution of our society, almost at the same pace as the changes. And that is why we socialists introduced the system of shared custody into our legal system, with the reform of the 2005 Civil Code. And this law currently in force allows the adoption of the shared custody system not only by mutual agreement, but also at the request of one of the parents. Therefore, the extension of rights, the opening up of paths towards equality, ensuring the comprehensive protection of our children, solidarity, equity and other higher values – it is justice to recognize it, ladies and gentlemen – has much to do with socialist governments in this country. That's what we essentially stand for. Abundantly, unagreed shared custody is established in this country not only because we affirm it, but because it has been ratified by each and every one of the representatives who have passed through this Parliament in the process of drafting the law. I will recall, starting with the nearest institutions: Vice-Councillor of Justice of the Basque Government, Emakunde, and above all the President of the Court of Álava, by the way, a firm defender of preferential custody, who stated with absolute roundness that in her court the shared custody was given almost ex officio. So denying the evidence is at least absurd. However, let no one think that joint custody can be granted ex officio, because in our country it governs the principle of justice demanded in civil proceedings, as set out in article 216 of the Civil Prosecution Act, according to which civil courts must decide on the matters to be prosecuted by virtue of the contributions of facts, evidence and claims of the parties. So let's make some things clear. They clearly lie to those who claim with absolute and affront to the fact that the socialists are against shared custody. That's obvious. In our view, those who claim that shared custody will promote equality are wrong. The proposal is inverse, Mr Maneiro: equality is what will bring more shared custody, whether by mutual agreement or without it, which is at all in the Lord's vineyard. But equality leads to a greater and more equitable exercise of parental responsibilities, no doubt. For us socialists the solution is first of all to involve the minimum degree of collaboration, communication and understanding between parents to assume that agreement and consensus is necessary to care for our children jointly, and that each and every one of the decisions that we have to make in relation to them and that will affect their vital development must preferably be taken jointly. And that's not just because the Civil Code says it and it's a legal mandate, but because there's one thing that we all know and it's called common sense. So, if that doesn't happen, you have to make a tailor-made suit. A costume that houses the rights of our children and guarantees integral development. And that, ladies and gentlemen, will happen and sometimes happen with a shared guard, or with a single parent guard of mother, father, father, mother-mother..., in, not of father and mother necessarily. Because what we call shared custody is not just a right of parents or a tool to solve problems of an economic nature or of property management. Repeating a false idea or statement to boredom is not enough for it to become the truth or what we society needs. And even if there are people who in good faith can fall into that web of fallacious arguments, the fate of events, Mr Maneiro, has always shown that the imposition of a system does not guarantee justice or equality, nor the goodness of what is not essentially good. And this is not a good law. It is not a good law, and that is why we are going to vote in a global sense, which we will then explain, with abstention, with certain cases that we are going to vote no. But the main reason for our vote in this regard is that we bet and value the active participation of citizens in the elaboration of their own framework of coexistence and regulation of their private relations. We bet on equality, which is one of the principles on which our political action is based, and no one can doubt it or deny it. Our work in expanding the catalogue of human rights in this country supports this. I'm finishing up, President. We believe in the shared care of our children, in the involvement of both parents in integral development, but, today, believing only is not enough, and, in the meantime, our duty as legislators is to ensure the best interest of the children in these processes of breaking up coexistence according to the peculiarities of each family, with individualized solutions that allow the option of the most beneficial modality for our children. That's our position. This law does not achieve the objective of improving and guaranteeing the situation of our children. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u31	Good morning, everyone. I'll repeat the arguments I've been using on the committee for today. The Fellowship of the Archaba, Gipulia, and the Separated Fathers of Bitaz, has brought the discussion into our minds by proposing to change the law which governs the judicial decisions when the parents are separated and the custody of children are not agreed on. They have shown it as an initiative for shared care in favor of the change of law, which would encourage a man's reaction to women, as it were, the liberator for women; they have, after all, used concepts which are highly approved in social discourse. A great many are preached about the principle of equality, but it is not practised so much. Nowadays, the custody of children is more desirable than reality. Homework and child carefulness are principally the care of women. Women are the ones that reduce children's job. Those that get 93) and exist (% 95. Most of us have learned, therefore, the argument for equality, but practice has not changed so much. The children's shared care is a purpose for us. So we want children to be as soon as they are born, and that requires deep changes. It would help to compare parenthood permits and to promote men's reductions and dependences. But in this change of law in hand...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u32	I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Translation system is not working. Please continue, Mrs. Gold.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u33	And the problem is that the moment when parents are separated is not the starting-point. Our response and child's shared custody must be in practice as soon as children are born. It's not a law to change the law that's been introduced to us under the standard of shared care, but should it be? We can clearly see that when parents are separated and they disagree with the custody of children, the criteria to which they ought to be victorious ought to protect the welfare of their children. Whatever kind of care it may be, the responsible care must be assured that the children will be well guarded. Hence, because the welfare and interest of children ought to be protected by this law, this law cannot be understood as a policy of equality. For this purpose, there must be other policies which, as has been said, may be brought about by the social changes of the deep. Is there any ideal solution? We don't think so. If it is necessary to protect the welfare of the children, one kind of care cannot be placed above another, because it requires individualized solutions to be sought. We must put all the options on the table, examine each case, and provide for the solution which would be most suitable for each child. In some cases the watch will be shared, and sometimes it won't. This proposition, introduced under the title of shared care, has been protected by many known persons, and by thousands of people, as a thing which is not a proposition: a proposal for children's shared care, which will encourage men's community. They disguised a proposal with a claim that is socially desirable to us. On the other hand, we have a highly integrated ideology, which is the basis of the proposition, and has still a vast social acceptance: we see women as the benefit of the process of separation, though poverty be contrary to the facts, and those who win by the side of man, who skin men, and men the victims of women's lies and manipulations. He answers, after all, to the ideology of the patrician, and, in addition to the denial of the relations of the powers of men, presents the world to us on the contrary, as if women were profitable. The initial proposal put forward by Kidetza contained such serious aspects that even the groups in favour of this bill have eliminated most of these issues. Such serious issues as the absence at all times of the best interests of minors; the automatic liquidation of the housing, which meant leaving the children without a roof; the multiple obstacles to the compensatory pension, which meant ensuring coverage of the basic needs of minors; not being enough a complaint of macho violence to consider that this custody was not the right one; something so serious, and often seen repeatedly, with the famous false complaints. And, therefore, it is essential at this point to refer to the figures of the 2014 Security Adviser: 6,000 files opened for macho complaint; only one file, only one doubtful complaint. The text that we are voting on today cannot be adopted. Although it has been improved, we cannot approve it, because it continues to put the interest of the parents in the best interests of the child. It is contradictory in itself to speak of the best interests of minors and to want to establish a single model of custody and custody. Emakunde, the High Prosecutor of Justice of the Basque Country, the Vice-Advisor of Justice Ana Arregi, or multiple lawyers and experts in the field who have been in this House have made it clear: there is no single solution. This is not what Euskal Herria Bildu says, this is what many people say. It is therefore demagogic when reference is made to the fact that Euskal Herria Bildu is against shared custody. We advocate for individualized solutions, for that suit as it will give us the best solution for each family, for each family typology, and especially in the best interests of the children. Another issue that has become apparent in this House is the obligation of the mediation service, which in itself contravenes the essence... We do not say that, many lawyers have said that in this House too. It doesn't make any sense, and especially in cases of macho violence – which let's remember that only 15% of these cases are reported – is going to be completely harmful. If we really want to give priority to the best interests of minors, we must therefore carry out a thorough analysis, the judge will have to carry out a thorough analysis of each case, of what is best for the best interests of minors. To date, it has been made clear that this law is a policy that will contribute to equality, and in this regard it is necessary to clarify that this law is not an equality policy. And we are not just saying this, ladies and gentlemen; Emakunde says, the body, yes, responsible for equality policies in this Autonomous Community, which states that, before those who argue that shared custody will promote equality, equality must be said that equality will not come for a kind of custody and custody: it will come for a profound social change in which co-responsibility, shared care since the birth of girls and boys, is a reality. It is surprising that those who carry out such initiatives in favour of supposed co-responsibility have not carried out initiatives for equal and non-transferable paternity permits, reductions in working hours, surpluses, etc. Initiatives that we would have supported, because those are initiatives that serve to advance equality on that path. Therefore, it is essential for us to talk about co-responsibility, shared care for children and children from the moment of birth. It is essential to work to build that scenario in which the sexual division of labour is not a reality, as it is today, and in which care does not primarily fall on women. Working on a scenario where shared care and co-responsibility are what unites us and what serves us to move forward. We have tabled thirty-three amendments to this proposal, which are clearly opposed to the proposal to be adopted today by the Basque Nationalist Party, the People's Party and the Union, Progress and Democracy, a text which puts the interests of the parents before the interests of the children. It has already been said here, there was no need to carry on a law. Current legislation itself provides for the possibility of shared custody. As we move forward in parental co-responsibility, these shared custody are naturally being given. In 2008 we had 7%, in 2014 12%. There was therefore no need for current legislation. Euskal Herria Bildu is neither in favour of nor against shared custody. We are in favour of the best interests of the child, and in that case the ideal custody and custody is the one that is appropriate to each type of family, and it is very important to leave it out here. And not only do we say this: Emakunde says so, an organ that has been completely naught by the group that supports the Government. He's been completely naught. The body leading equality policies in this Community has not been heard. Yesterday, new statements came out saying that, although there had been changes in the text, because what Kidetza proposed was very serious, it still did not put the best interests of the children before them. It seems to us to be a serious matter, ladies and gentlemen, that they do not take account of the body responsible and that they lead equality policies in this Community. He's been delegitimized. This seems really embarrassing to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Eubertarians represent the team. Too much of a woman, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressman and guests, good morning. The day has come. It's the end of this long avenue. We will accept the law of sharing custody in the legislature. A very important step forward. For the purpose of this law to make it clear, the gold is to secure the welfare of the children, and to have as direct and stable a relation to their parents as possible with their parents, both with their parents and with their mothers and their families, when their lives are broken. I repeat: the object is to guarantee the welfare of the children, not equality. This you yourselves have often disputed, but it is not the end of this law; if it assists, it is welcome, but the end is the welfare of children. Eunerative patriots in the community, by means of the direct instructions introduced to the ILP, we have sought what is best for the welfare of children, and we have always considered the favor of children. When they are young, it is plain that the subject is very instinctive, and therefore we have spent a long time in listening to different postures. Listen, we've heard all of them, Mrs. Gold, and the rest of the shared care, and the opposite, all of them. The other thing is that it's our position and our attitude. And we've treated our corrections seriously, always in the desire to improve basic text. The purpose of the Act is to ensure the best interests of minors in cases of separation, divorce or break-up of their parents'lives, and to ensure that they continue to have as direct and constant a relationship as possible with both their father and mother, and with their respective families. And today the system that we believe best guarantees is that of shared custody. We want to stop below in the most prominent aspects of the law, in those that seem to us to be the most novel. Article 9.3, to which some other spokespersons have also referred, is very important: the judge, at the request of the party, will adopt - it is imperative - shared custody, provided that it is not detrimental to the interests of minors and in view of a number of circumstances which are reflected in the subparagraphs of (a) to (j), which we will explain later. It must therefore be requested, but unlike the legislation in force – and this is very important – it will not allow the veto of one of the parents. That is, so far, if one applied for joint custody and the other refused, it was very difficult to obtain it, and all this despite the fact that the courts have been making the interpretation of the law more flexible, they have even ruled on the non-necessity of taking care of the parents in order to grant it. They have also left it established and it is a well-established position that, if anyone does not want shared custody, it makes no sense to grant it to him; that is why the principle of a party's request, of a demand for justice, governs it. It also mentions the article that shared custody cannot be granted if it is harmful to minors, in line with the fact that it always ensures the best interests of minors, which is in the will of legislators throughout the framework of this law. And when granting shared custody, the judge will have to take into account a number of circumstances that are reflected in the paragraphs, I insist, ranging from point (a) to point (h) of the same article, also following the criterion marked by repeated jurisprudence of the Supreme Court. These circumstances include, inter alia, the previous practice of parents in their relations with minors and their affective relationship; the number of children, as well as their ages; the opinion of children when they have sufficient judgment to be able to express it; the fulfilment by parents of their duties towards children; mutual respect in their personal relations; the attitude to ensure the relationship of children with both parents and their families; the social, school and family roots of children and girls; the possibilities of reconciling the working and family life of each parent; the location of their habitual residences; and the support with which they have. As can be seen, a number of requirements that will help the judge to make the final decision, but, we insist, it speaks of "advocacy": it is an imperative, provided that the requirements and the specific situation so deems it and that it is always for the benefit of minors. Therefore, the law, we insist, places at the disposal of the judge the requirements to be examined in order, always ensuring the best interests of minors, to be able to grant shared custody and to cease to be exceptional. We insist: when all these requirements are examined, the judge may grant it if he or she considers it relevant to the particular case, even if the other party denies it. Another notable novelty mentioned by Mrs Gallastegui is that for the attribution of the use of housing, in addition to the best interests of minors, criteria for the need of parents and ownership of housing can be taken into account, and all this is aimed at solving or alleviating, to the extent possible, one of the most conflicting aspects in cases of break-up, as is the case with housing. And always, we insist, that the well-being of the sons and daughters, who must have a decent place to live, is guaranteed. It will be customary for the home to be awarded to the person who has custody and custody, but it may be granted to the non-custodial parent when a number of requirements set out in the law itself are given, such as the existence of another home, very different economic income..., provided that the welfare of minors is guaranteed. With regard to the transitional provision, we believe it is important that the law can be applied to couples with final separation and divorce sentences, provided that they so request (again, the principle of justice sought), and when the judge considers that the requirements set out in article 9 are met. We have only reserved one deletion amendment on one of the additional provisions. Beste guztiak adostu egin ditugu edo Erretiratu, adostasun zabalaren bila, ahalik eta lege onena onartzeko asmoz. For all that has been said, we are content with the law which we are to receive to-day, with the law made for the benefit of the children, with the law which will allow the share of the watch. The judges apply their share of care if the conditions which the law unites are fulfilled, when it is proved that it is always best for the children's welfare. And lastly, and tied up with the foregoing debate, we must say that it has been previously said that the people have been fought, and that, under the name of society, it has been demanded, with 1030,000 signatures, that the ILPa of the fracing has been brought here, and that today it has been requested by society with 85,000 signatures. Society requires this too, but since EH Collect will not support it, this is not what society requires, and this is not a nation's struggle. The argument must be one and the same in both cases, and we do not understand why it is not in this case, that society and 85,000 figs will not protect it, according to the order of society. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. [[Applause]] Response Turn... Silence. We'll take the answers turn. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u37	Yes, thank you very much, President. Mrs Gallastegui said that thanks to her contributions this law has been improved. Thank you for enlightening us, Mrs Gallastegui, but the amendments tabled by the Socialist Group have been zero, which shows that the attitude of the Socialist Group was not constructive, but rather that it was to prevent a law from coming out which we consider absolutely essential. You consider it unnecessary. We believe that it is indispensable. You, and the representative of the EH Bildu group, consider it a bad law. We think it's a good law. You consider it an ineffective law, and we think it will be an effective law, which will solve the problems of thousands of citizens who have suffered in recent times, and much. And it gives the feeling that you live away from reality, that you do not attend to certain problems that have suffered a great many citizens and that you are here today. His speech, the speech in this case of EH Bildu and the Socialist Group, sounds old, sounds old, sounds like a speech anchored in the past, and above all surpassed by events and completely removed from reality. You live in this case away from reality. In your view, we must not listen to Basque society, we must not listen to the people who have come to listen to us in this plenary today, we must not listen to those associations that have worked for many years to try to make an absolutely indispensable law. In your view, we must listen to the imminent or eminent jurists who have passed through the relevant committee of Parliament. Those do know the reality. Parents who have suffered for many years from the absence of a shared custody law, according to you and Mrs Gallastegui, are people of good faith but who use fallacious arguments, I don't know if as a result of their wickedness... I suppose in my case it will be evil, and in the case of the people who have attended this plenary it will simply be wasted. We, according to Mrs Gallastegui and Mrs Urrea, seem to be people of good faith but who are totally lost and who do not know how to respond to social reality. We must listen to those eminent jurists who have come to the commission, trying to sell us the goodness of a certain law or the contrary. Well, no. We respond to thousands of Basque citizens who have been demanding a law that is absolutely fair and just. And it's a law – say whatever you want – deeply progressive. You and the Socialist Group have been constantly insisting in recent times on the goodness of article 92 of the Civil Code, which for the first time introduces shared custody in Spain, although, by the way, with less vehemence and with less credibility. This article is clearly insufficient, because it only raises shared custody on an exceptional basis, and remains in force, the right of veto would remain in force. And, therefore, this law clearly overcomes this, and what clearly establishes, in our view, is shared custody as a general rule. That is, the judge, the judge, will have to justify in his case when he does not grant shared custody. That is why we believe that shared custody is established as a general rule, and always for the benefit of the child. That has been our goal from the beginning. For the benefit of the minor. You talk permanently about co-responsibility. Are you accusing thousands of parents, who have been unfairly treated, of not having access to shared custody as a result of being bad parents or mothers? Are you guys saying that? Because that argument seems to me to be regrettable, and it is absolutely false. There have been thousands of parents who have behaved perfectly well and yet have been separated from their sons and daughters. Therefore, stop using that argument, because it is absolutely false. There have been clearly unjust situations, of people who have suffered a great deal in recent times, despite having been perfect parents, perfect mothers, and have done their jobs perfectly well. What there was, at last, was an ancient, ancient discourse that is going to be overcome and is being overcome by events. This law is clearly progressive, and effectively establishes shared custody as a general rule. Finally, I keep it as I said at first: shared custody is the best option for minors, and that is why we defend it. Say what you say, this is an absolutely indispensable and deeply progressive law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u38	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. [[Applause]] Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u39	Well, we too, from the People's Group, understand that justice is being done today and that an outstanding issue is being resolved. And, of course, it makes it difficult for us to understand, as many citizens certainly do, that there are parties that are self-proclaimed as progressive parties and that then, at the time of truth, when we are seeking solutions to an essential question, we are responding to a social demand, and that it is also a question that clearly advances in effective equality between men and women, and advances in co-responsibility and reconciliation. I believe that there is nothing more progressive than being aware of and, as I said, putting legal mechanisms on the table that, of course, correct injustices, advance in greater equity, in equality, and above all in that co-responsibility and conciliation with which we are all filled very much. Therefore, facts and not words. And I believe that today those of us who believe in conciliation policies, in co-responsibility and in making effective progress on equality between men and women, today we are taking an important step. I also want to clear up many fears that continue to have formations that are going to be positioned today against the law of shared custody, because in addition to the parents who are in these processes, and who are requesting or going to request from now on shared custody, are the first interested in safeguarding the interest of the children. It's just, how are we going to suspect that the parents who are in these processes are not the first to be interested in safeguarding that interest of the children! We put it into the law, but it's that they're going to be the first ones who want the best for their children. And when the best for your children is shared custody, that shared custody is going to be given, and the judge is going to have to take it into account, and there will be no veto as was the case with the regulation until now, where shared custody, when requested, was given or not, but it was given in an absolutely exceptional way, because if someone did not want it, it would not be given. Another thing is that the jurisprudence has been correcting this current regulation of the Civil Code, because obviously the judges, as legal operators, when applying the laws have to adapt to that reality, which was clearly seen as not serving the current regulation and was obsolete. Therefore, I also ask you to run away from stereotypes. Here we are people, and you can't say that some are worse parents, other better mothers... Here we are talking about people who have not gone well, but who do not have to affect that to their relationship with their children, because they and their extended families also want to continue to have (both, because they have the right to do so, and also the corresponding duties)..., to continue to have a relationship with their children on an equal footing. I think that is something of common sense and something that, of course, is absolutely in correlation with the times we live in. And the other thing is looking back and looking back. And, of course, I regret that there have been parties here today, which coincide with left-wing forces, which continue to look back, when society – especially the collectives, who again thank you for your effort to make this happen – has told us that we must move forward. I'm finishing up, Madam President. The world is moving forward, and those of us who have a political responsibility cannot be alien to the world's progress, we cannot make deaf ears. Regardless of whether everyone thinks what they want, but the world is moving forward and the world is heading in one direction. And, of course, we consider this law absolutely necessary, because it will make life easier for many people, and for us, apart from stereotypes and genders (we are talking about people), we will make life easier for many parents, many mothers, their children, who are not to blame for anything, and for extended families (grandparents, uncles, cousins), who also have the right to relate to those children. And, therefore, we are going to solve many problems, and to many people who are listening to us, who are following us today, we are going to give you a chance to improve your life and to solve your problems. And I think it is our duty to make life easier for citizens whenever possible. And here it was possible. And, therefore, from the People's Group we have taken that commitment from the very beginning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u40	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. [[Applause]] Silence, please... ! Silence... ! Basque Socialists. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u41	Yes, President, thank you. I did not intend to intervene in this second round, mainly because I believe that the positions of the Socialist Group, and what approach we have had throughout the whole process of lawmaking, is what it is, and it is very, very, very, very clear. I will repeat again that what is essentially not a question of establishing suspicions about one of the spouses – that is what Mrs Laura Garrido says – nor of establishing any kind of right of veto, which Mrs Arregi or Mr Maneiro, for example, are talking about. To say that in paternal relationships, when a marriage or cohabitation is broken, a right of veto is established is to say something that is not rigorously true. It is true that it has sometimes been possible to give that, in the same way that you can talk about situations such as, for example, "I don't pay you the pension because I don't see the children enough." Things like that, but I don't want to go in there. In any case, what it is essentially about is that when there is agreement between parents, the parents carry their agreement, and when there is no agreement each parent carries his approach, which can be called a regulatory agreement, it can be called a measure..., it can be called anything (it is done now), and in the end the judge agrees, according to all those principles of justice demanded, which also have much to do with what one begs in the lawsuit at the end. And that's a matter of assessing evidence, and you'll have to see a lot of the responsibility that everyone has exercised before. No one is saying, no one has spoken here, except you, of bad parents or good parents, or parents who are perfectly good. I take it all parents are. All the parents, all the mothers, I take it they are. And when we talk about that you have to make a tailor-made suit I'm saying that a shared custody will be good in certain cases where there is agreement, that a custody granted in this case will be good, or granted, to the father when he is good, or to the mother when he is good, and that the circumstances must be studied. And all that has not only been told to us by all those who have come here, who were not only jurists. What happens is that you probably don't know that, Mr. Maneiro, because here have come many associations that are against shared custody as well. And then what it's about isn't defending what you're defending because there's pressure from a specific type or not. We stand for our position, and if there is one thing I believe we have always done, it has always been to express to the associations that were in favour of this system what our position was, without any doubt. And, indeed, we do not make any amendments. We do not make amendments for a very simple reason: because we consider, and in fact this is what we consider and say exactly as the most outspoken advocate of the system of shared custody (I mean in the exercise of the profession of awarding custody, that is, in the judiciary), that almost ex officio shared custody was being given in this country. And we believe that that law that we have creates much less problems than this law that you have passed. But that is an appreciation that is absolutely respectable, exactly as I respect that which is not mine, which is yours. So, at least you have to be a little careful. And it is that, when you come here to talk and give your opinion, you are absolutely respectable, and you probably have as much social support as you can have behind you. Another thing is that each one, within his or her options, choose the one he or she considers best. And we, to make it clear as clear as clear water, consider that the best thing that can be done in each situation is to individualize situations. And that doesn't mean that a spouse or parent has more rights than another, because, among other things, you know very well, if you know what we're talking about, you will know very well that at the moment there are exclusive custody that, in purity, when exercising them are shared custody, because there is not a single court in this country that doesn't give extensive visits (visits, which, by the way, is a term that I don't like), because at the end visits and custody... Man!, will you tell me that, if you have children on weekends and three days a week, are you not in your custody?, or are you in whose custody? We are going to be serious, Mr Maneiro, because it seems to me that any law that improves the situation, that will guarantee the rights of the me-no-res (of the minors) will always be good. I don't think this law will substantially change anything in many things, but it will bring problems in others. And that's... I fully ratify all the buts I put in at the time of my intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. EHGG rep. Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, when a collection of such signatures is made, speaking of whether you are in favour of shared custody and custody, who could not have signed? Because we automatically have that co-responsibility, that shared care of girls and boys at 50%. What I did not know about the whole of this citizenship that he has signed is the subsequent initiative that has been brought to this Parliament. An initiative that could be answered by the groups in favour of this proposal, why they removed most of the proposals that were clearly seen as putting the interests of the parents before the interests of the children. Even contradicting and no-one who – I repeat – says and affirms and continues to maintain nothing more and nothing less than the one responsible for the equality policies, Mr Urkullu, of this community. You've never been absolutely embarrassed, and that's absolutely embarrassing. And it has to be made clear that it is not only a position that we have maintained; we have not only spoken from this group about the importance of putting the interests of the children before the interests of the parents, but also about the importance of not establishing a specific type of custody and custody. Every family, every child, every parent is a world. Ladies and gentlemen, sharing means listening, it means dialogue, it means understanding, and this in many families may not happen. It is, therefore, the judge who has to define in each case what is going to be that superior good of the children. We have repeatedly had to listen to that tortuous reading of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. And it is said that the care of boys and girls is claimed, the shared care, that right they have to that shared care. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, I completely agree. But not after a breakup: you are entitled from the moment of birth, ladies and gentlemen. It seems here that we are in a situation where we have achieved equality, and it is necessary to show that much remains to be done. As we progress on an equal footing, as parents become responsible for the care of their daughters and children, shared custody is naturally given. Because whoever has been, from the beginning to the end, in a co-responsible way, in case of a break, however difficult this is, is going to put the interests of the minor. Therefore, less demagogy in this House. This law is intended to approve the best interests...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u44	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u45	... of parents and progenitors. We, who are very clear, are not in favour of or against shared custody. We're in favour of those interests...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u46	Please, silence! Please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u47	... of girls and boys, who are forced to submit to a type of custody and custody, without putting forward a number of very important circumstances. And reference was made to article 8.3, which provides that the judge, at the request of the party, shall grant shared custody, and reference is made to such a series of circumstances, including taking into account the previous relationship. Ladies and gentlemen, in order for this law to take this interest into account, it would have to be established that the judge, at the request of the party, will grant the custody and custody that best suits the interests of these minors according to a number of requirements. Not only that, but also article 8.2 provides that bad relations between the two, or even the denial of one of the parties, will not be an obstacle to the granting of shared custody. Is that putting the best interest of the child above it? No, ladies and gentlemen, let me make it very clear in this House today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u48	Thank you. Eubertarians represent the team. Too much of a woman, your word is yours. Please, silence! Please be quiet or you'll go out. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u49	Thank you again, Mrs. President. In our opinion, the law we're going to pass is going to be a good law. Surely it will not be perfect, because perfection is almost impossible, and surely, if other people had been in the paper, perhaps the final result would not have been exactly the same. But we have worked on all the people who have been part of the presentation and through the amendments, and even Mrs Gallastegui, who has not tabled amendments, has participated in one of the meetings of the presentation giving her opinion on this. I believe that among all of us we have managed to improve the original text, and we will finally have a shared custody law in Euskadi. And this law, in our view, which is endorsed by those 85,000 signatures, does reflect the sense of the street, which many people did not feel today protected by the legislation in force, and that is why we believe that this law was necessary. Because, of course, the interpretations of the courts are welcome; they have improved, they have made existing legislation in the State more flexible, they have made the interpretation and application of the Civil Code more flexible, but they do not cease to be judicial interpretations, which, modified in any case by the members of that court, could also change their feeling. Therefore, it seems very important to us. With regard to the macho violence that Mrs Urrea used in her first intervention, it is clear, it is very clear, as reflected in the Civil Code itself, that if there are mere indications – it speaks of indications, it does not speak of sentences, it does not speak of... – shared custody will not be granted. And for that too, for the law... Because what we are doing and what we are regulating and what is going to be passed is a law, and the law has to be generic, it has to regulate all cases. And so what is given are instruments, some requirements are laid down, which will be those that the judge to whom he has to know the specific case of this separation, this rupture, will have to value, so that, whenever he considers it to be for the benefit of the child, he can grant shared custody and there is no right of veto. Because, Mrs Gallastegui, under the current legislation, that right of veto existed in practice, and it was carried out on too many occasions, in our view. The subject of individualizing on a case-by-case basis, tailor-made clothing, etc.... For this the requirements have been established in the law, and for that also the Supreme Court itself has been nurturing them, and those that have been collected in the law are the ones that the courts themselves are stalling. Nor is it that we have been reminded of the members of the paper and have suddenly been enlightened and we have established those requirements. They are the ones who are already applying the courts. And, I insist, with the theme of tailor-made clothing, in our opinion, once the break-up, the separation of parents, the children have the right to be as long as possible with both their father and mother, exactly as it was before the break-up. And explain to me, Mrs Gallastegui, how this is achieved if it is not through shared custody; that neither do we say it has to be 50-50, but that we will also have to see those requirements, those availability, etc., in order to be able to grant it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u50	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u51	But, of course, these young children have the right to have a relationship as long as possible, and obviously the highest possible quality, both with their father and mother, produced the breakup. And we see no other method, no other system, no other type of custody better than shared so that it can be assured or guaranteed. And, Mrs Urrea, I will not allow you to say that we have never brought anyone, any institution, any of the people who have come, much less Emakunde. Another thing is that we do not share a hundred percent of what Emakunde says, as neither you nor your group share many of the things that Emakunde says. In this case, and I have already told you on the subject of violence – we have already had this debate in several of the appearances, we have continued to keep it in the presentation – we feel terrible about the fact of gender-based violence (to us and I am sure that all the people who are here, also the guests), but, of course, mixing gender-based violence with shared custody... I have already told you that the Civil Code makes it meridianally clear, and in such cases the judges do not grant it. That sounds like a mistake to us, and we're not going to admit that he says we've never married Emakunde. We have listened to him, but we do not share a hundred percent of the position he has been holding. And in the end we are going to pass this law of shared custody, which we believe is coming to give satisfaction and to do justice and of course to greatly improve the current situation. It's just that we're happy and congratulations to everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. End of discussion, we'll vote. The first vote will be the correction of the medium. Misto-UPyD, Popular group, and Eubertarian patriots have signed delivery correction, where a transitory regulation is established. The middle-correcting correction, okay? We can vote. [[Berber]] Primero la transitory, medium correction, enmida transacssional. We can vote... We vote again, we start again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 37; opponents 36; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u53	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Next, we shall vote for the amendments proposed by the EH Team to several articles of irication. This is where the vote has been requested to vote in teams: partly 6, 8, 10, 12, 13, 18, 23, 24, and 33. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 21; the contrary, 37; white, 0; Abstations, 15.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u54	So they didn't accept it. We're going to vote next for the EH Collections. Twenty-two, 21, 28, and 32. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 21; contraries, 52; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u55	The corrections are not therefore accepted. Next up, the corrections made by the Mistto-UPyD team... Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u56	... 196 and 200, and 199, and 197 and 201, on the other hand.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u57	I'm sorry, what about 196 and 200?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u58	196 and 200, and on the other hand 197 and 201... Well, we vote separately, then.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u59	Wait, wait, wait. One by one, then, because the Social Party has also called for another group. Well, we vote separately, then. Let's start 196. Correct. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; in favour 1, 57; white, 0; abstations, 15.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u60	It's not supposed to be a 196-correction. Next, we vote for the corrections of 197. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 11. The contrary, 47; white, 0; abscesssion, 15.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u61	It's not supposed to be reported in 197. Correction. 199. We'll vote for the corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; in favour 1, 72; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u62	It's not supposed to be reported in 199. Correction. Next up, we'll vote for 200. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; in favour 1, 57; white, 0; abstations, 15.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u63	That didn't take 200. Correction. 201. We'll vote for the corrections immediately. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 11. The contrary, 47; white, 0; abscesssion, 15.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u64	It's not supposed to take correction 201. Did you tell me about 196, Mrs Garrido? Mrs Garrido? Yeah? It was 196. Okay, that's all you want to go out, right? The rest of the articles,UPyD? No, okay. Then PNV, the Eucan patriot, has a correction: 78. We'll vote for that. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 26; the opponents are 47; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u65	That's why the corrections are not accepted. Next, we'll vote for the corrections made by the Basque Popular Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 11. The contrary, 62; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u66	It is not therefore accepted to be correction. Next, the articles of the judgment which are in accordance with rights are agreed upon. "Arículos del Datamen mindos." Here too, teams. On one side, 1, 3, 4, 5, 9, 10, and 6 and 12 apart. Other... ? No, okay. Well, we vote one, three, four, five, nine... El 2? No, el 2 out. No había, no había... 1, 3, 4, 5, 9 y 10. All right, then, we'll vote for them now. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 37; oppositions 21; white, 0; abstations, 15.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u67	So they're accepted. Next we vote for 6 and 12. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 37; opponents 36; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u68	So they're accepted. Next, articles that haven't been augmented. Here again are two teams: 2, 7, 8, 13 and the last regulation... , 2, 7, 8, 13, and the last regulation, 11 out. Esso es. That's all. Anyone else? No. Well, we vote two, seven, eight, 13, and the last regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 37; oppositions 21; white, 0; abstations, 15.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u69	So they're accepted. We'll vote for 11. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 37; opponents 36; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u70	So the 11th is accepted. The fifth correction of the EH Collect Group is to the vote, by which it was explained. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 21; the contrary, 37; white, 0; Abstations, 15.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u71	So he's not accepted. After that, the explanation is made to vote. Exposición de motivos. Yes, alone. That was his explanation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 37; opponents 36; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u72	The explanation which he said was accepted. Next, we vote for the name of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 37; oppositions 21; white, 0; abstations, 15.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-30.u73	Therefore the law of separation or breach of the family of parents is approved. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. [[Applause]] It was eleven and fifty-six in the morning.
