ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we start with the theme list, remember that the New House Earth has delegated the vote. First point in theme list: "Advance of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, over the compatibility state of the three independent members proposed to represent the Basque Committee of the Memory, Memory, Relations, and Human Rights Institute of the United States. The controversy and final deliberation of the Constitution, and the design of the members of that council, may be so. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to speak for the judgment? Does a team want to speak for or against judgment? That's all we're going to vote for. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 72; the opponents 72; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainments are 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u1	Therefore, judgment has been unanimously accepted. So we're going to apply the procedure to appoint members of the Memories, Relations, and Human Rights Institute. The 8th article of the 4/2014 Law of Memory, Communion, and Human Rights Institute, must also be named by three independent members, the Basque Act. According to the article set by Article 234.6 of the Eusual Act, each member of the legislature team has five minutes to go. Do you think any of the teams would like to join? Five minutes' shift. Nobody? Okay. According to Article 36.3.b of the Rule, the selection will be made by cards. The names of the four members of the legislature present are displayed on the voting cards, and on the other hand the names of the three candidates who have been presented as independent members. Each member of the legislature can mark seven names in its own square. First of all, the first secretary at the table will get a number and then the congressman will be called. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u2	Yes, the 35: Llanos Gómez, Nerea. (Geldon) The first secretary called the congressmen to vote. A name vote has been made, which has been previously called to the members of the legislature, and this is the result: The votes given, 73; Mr. Ares Taboada, Mr. Arzuga Gumuthius, Mr. 63, Barrios Barroja, Lord 72, Lord Iurate Ibarus 72, Lord Loza Aguire, lord Gabildondo, lord 72, Mr. Mancisidor de la Fuente, lord 72 and white votes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u3	So, uh, we're right, right now, right now, right. Second point on the subject list: "Irration of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, based on the compatibility condition of the Euscal Administration of Women in the Council. A controversy and a final resolution concerning the Constitution, and, if it be so, to appoint a member of that council. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to speak for the judgment? Some group either for judgment or against it? That's all we're going to vote for. We're gonna vote for the union committee's resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; the opponents are 72; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u4	The judgment is unanimously approved. When we have approved of the election, we will proceed to the procedure of naming the members of the Basque Organization of the Women's Office. According to the article set by Article 234.6 of the Eusual Act, each member of the legislature has five-minute shifts. Do you think any of the teams would like to join? No. According to Article 96.3.b of the Rule, the choice will be made by tickets. However, considering other precedents and no alternative candidates, I propose to make the nomination without vote. Any members of the legislature have anything to say? No. So, M.A. Angeles Castellanos Sánchez, we name Mrs. Esquires member of the Basque Office Council of Women. Third point in theme list: "Advance of the Incomprehensibility Committee, based on the compatibility condition of the United Nations' Euskal Court candidates. A controversy and a final resolution concerning the Constitution, and, if so, to appoint the members of that court. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to speak for the judgment? Any teams on or on? That's all we're going to vote for. We're gonna vote for the union committee's resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 43; the opponents are 1. The white, 0; the abstainations are 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u5	So your judgment is accepted. According to the article set by Article 234.6 of the Basque Act, each team has five-minute shifts. Everybody want to talk? Little to big, UPD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u6	Thank you, President. Last October 1st, we tabled a motion for a subsequent inquiry to propose the creation of a parliamentary presentation that would promote the necessary changes in the law governing the Basque Court of Public Accounts, in order to achieve the modernization, depoliticization and professionalization of this court. No group tabled an amendment. The Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party voted against. We proposed a presentation so that the various political groups could make their contributions and no one could accuse us of putting forward a closed proposal, and because it was and is true that there are different measures that could be proposed to achieve the objectives we wanted: modernization, depoliticisation and professionalisation of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. As I say, the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group voted against. Today is still an obvious thing that we have been denouncing alone for years, that the Basque Court of Public Accounts is seized, is occupied by political parties. For the election of its new members, it has become clear once again: each of the political groups present here has tried to place their own and as many of their own as possible. And your aim has not been, nor is it, that the court works better and fulfils its functions better, but that yours, yours, within the Basque Court of Public Accounts, better defend your partisan interests; yours, yours. And this is an absolutely shameful thing that we want to denounce again. The proposal that Mr Bilbao also presides over the Basque Court of Public Accounts is a blatant case of relocating a former public office to an institution and of politicisation and lack of professionalisation, but follows the path of what has already been done in the past. The Socialist Group is apparently going to support it, and this is simply shameful. EH Bildu and the People's Group have criticized his election. However, they also intend to place their own. In addition, both groups have announced the submission of a bill to change the Basque Court of Public Accounts Act. Today, however, both present their own to form part of the court. We are therefore faced with an obvious exercise of political hypocrisy. It cannot be that the members of the court ultimately respond to the interests of the political parties, of the parliamentary groups that elected them. There have been many examples over the past few years. This fact prevents it from fulfilling the functions for which it was created. So much so, and so evident in the Epsilon Hiriko case, that the media, with regard to the controversy and confrontations between them, did not cite the various members of the court as advisers to the court, but as representatives in the court of the corresponding political parties, and in most cases as the political parties themselves inserted in that court. The same has happened again on this occasion, and this absolutely undermines the credibility of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. His lack of credibility is already a fact; after Mr Bilbao's incorporation his credibility will be definitively laminated. The law must therefore be amended and reforms proposed. And for that there is a wide range of different options. For example, those raised by the President himself of the Basque Court of Public Accounts or many others. Or we can see what is done in countries around us. And, of course, the choice of these members must be changed. The corresponding parliamentary negotiation focuses not so much on the technical profile required of the candidate, but on the number of members to be proposed to each group. All groups have maintained this shameful system to keep trying to place their own. Groups raise their voices when they feel harmed in their quota; however, we continue to think that the model needs to be radically changed. The fidelity to an acronym and even the past trajectory in political management positions become key elements for the election. The audit courts can only perform their functions effectively if they are independent. In conclusion, the system of election of court members pollutes everything. The fact that its members are elected by parliamentary groups is absolutely shameful. And that Mr. Bilbao jumps directly from the Bizkaia District Council to the chair of the court, something that cries out to heaven. For all this, UPyD will not participate in the vote. Abandon this farce that you have mounted. There I leave you with your shameful pacts and your political hypocrisy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u7	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, good morning. Good morning, everyone. It is a pity that we do not have the opportunity to discuss some of the issues that we have had the opportunity to hear in this House. It is certainly an uneducating parliamentary exercise. And as the protagonist of this uneducating parliamentary exercise is not in this House and because I do not copy those bad forms, I will leave my speech here on this subject. There is an extended discourse in these times, a discourse that, if it is not concrete in facts, no matter how well it sounds, is a common space. It is a speech that speaks of the need to prestige institutions (political institutions, institutions of government), also control bodies. A speech that asks – and in what I am sure that in general terms, except nuances, we agree and we could all agree – to guarantee their independence, the independence of those institutions that we have endowed ourselves with to control the action of the governments, to control the protection of the institutions. Institutions such as the Basque Court of Auditors, control and control bodies such as the Basque Court of Auditors, from which we have been endowed and which need to permanently remove, in a permanent and continuous exercise, any shadow of suspicion about the control of them or about the political intention that these control bodies, these supervisory bodies, might have. There is a speech, fortunately extended, right now – but, I insist, it will only be a wet paper if our facts do not support that speech – that calls for prestige of our institutions and also the Basque Court of Auditors, depoliticizing those institutions, those bodies that are created to control governments. And in that, in the materialization and demonstration with facts of this speech, we should all be. But the debate on this point is unfortunately politicised, because some of the candidates who have asked themselves are forced to share a political reflection that translates into a political debate, when it should be strictly technical, when we should be focusing exclusively on the technical characteristics of competence of those who today are subject to consideration by this plenary. That is why, first of all, and since we believe that politics cannot be made ad hominem, but rather that we have to talk about content, I want to begin by showing our most scrupulous and absolute political and personal respect for the figure of José Luis Bilbao, one of the candidates proposed today by the Basque Nationalist Party. But, from that institutional, political and personal respect, we have to say that it is probably one of the least suitable candidates that could be asked. Less suitable, precisely, because he is a politician and a politician in office. And today the vote of a person who is going to participate, who is going to be a part of, and even, according to the rumors, chairing a control body being political in exercise; being not only political in exercise, but nothing more and nothing less than deputy general of Bizkaia, something also unprecedented in the history of this body. We believe that it could have been done differently. We believe that we could have expected a little more, or we believe that we could have resigned the deputy general of Bizkaia for submitting his name to the consideration of this plenary without being a deputy general of Bizkaia. Because in addition to the technical competence, in addition to the personal and professional characteristics and the requirements that must be met by the members of that court, also the forms – and at this time and at this time more, probably, than ever – are important. We are therefore critical of this proposal. That is why we abstained from the opinion before this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u9	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u10	Thank you, President. Socialists today do what we said two years ago we were going to do in this circumstance. As you will recall, in a public call to the media we clearly explained that from the opposition to a government that had decided to manage in a clamorous minority, we were not going to hinder the renewal of any of the organs under this House. We said that we would facilitate these renovations in the direction of EITB, in the relief to Ararteko, in the changes that we already knew were going to occur in the Court of Auditors and in the designations that would result from the wager by the Institute of Memory. It was not about doing, of course, what we would have liked. It was a matter of ensuring that those bodies were not paralyzed or managed from the outset. And it was not about doing what we would have liked, because in this House everyone must be aware of their reality. Ours is that of 16 parliamentarians, a fifth of the House, which alone is insufficient to drive changes and renovations to our liking, as are the 27 of the PNV, the 21 of Bildu, the 10 of the PP and the only one of UPyD. And when one's forces are insufficient, it's up to one to know how to agree. Some of us do it without complexes, in some subjects with some groups and in others with others. But there are those in this House who want to stand up as teachers of political ethics and then call the back door to find a hole that covers their lack of waist. Our position on what we are voting on today has been known for two years; others have not been concerned until a week ago. Today we are being announced with proposals to change the Basque Court of Auditors Act, and from here I say to you that the Socialists will vote in favour of these changes. They're right, but where they don't have it, it's about trying to throw the responsibility for their own irresponsibility at others. Why did they not raise these changes a year ago or two ago, if it was already known that on these dates the court had to be renewed? Well, let's address that reform. Indeed, when this Parliament passed today just a year ago the Incompatibilities Act (promoted, by the way, by my group), which regulates conflicts of interest, we were doing an exercise to eliminate any suspicion of particular or partisan interests, and the members of the court must also be affected by this circumstance. For our part, the Socialists have proposed two people with proven experience in accounting and auditing, because we believe that they are optimal for the performance of their duties to be carried out and that is what we are aware of. Others will have to answer why they have made the proposals they have made. We do not, of course, believe that the PP can be presented as an example either, after these well-known communications between the outgoing president and some popular parliamentarian. Neither did Bildu in general take as an ethical reference of anything, and we are drawn to the speed with which he has moved to have his own representative, as if what they propose was always immaculate and that of others always had some partisan stain. So lessons, few. There are those who have lost track for two years and at the last hour have come to give codaços to take a seat, without being committed to anything else throughout the legislature. It is easier to always appear to be the seemingly outraged and clean voice. I have to admit to the PP that they did get involved in the renovation of the Ararteko, for example, recently, but EH Bildu neither. So socialists do what we publicly said we were going to do. We said that we were not going to implement the same blocking policies that the previous government had suffered in the previous legislature, nor in this matter, because neither the citizens nor the bodies that depend on this Parliament have to suffer political revenge. Here we are to make things work. Welcome the reforms that are being proposed, albeit very late. But let them come with the humility of those who, in any case, have not been able to react in time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u11	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u12	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Of course, today our first words will be for Pericum, and for the course of his indefatigable millitante. We're calling today seven members of the City Court of Investigation. A court of public affection and public prestige are utterly lost. And to-day the vote, and the manner of voting, instead of assisting him in the prestige of that tribunal, will make him deeper when he is lost. Why? Because it's not done with objective criteria. And as we don't do it with objective criteria, it's done, Mr. Pastor, according to the interests of the parties at the moment. You have now called this political waist, which we call chromium exchange. And we don't have any political waists on that, we're so fluffy about it. We won't fit in the chrom exchange. And when it is said that we have not cared for it for two years, if it were to be done with objective criteria, there would be no need to worry, because when the time comes, those representatives would be chosen according to what these criteria were marked. In that sense, the Basque Country, as you know, presented a legal proposition. And yes, we've met this week. And this proposition of the law principally receives two measures, and two criteria. On the one hand, the proportionalness, that it may not be of chromus exchanges. The proportionality of this chamber, with the delegation, in our opinion, ought to be the tribunal which follows a certain logic. And in this sense, we believe, that at the present moment this is what we have been trying to defend, according to this, the Jeltista of the Euric Party would have agreed to three of you and one of you to the Poptular Party. And it's said we took care of it. How we have two of them, we've been worried... And what happened here today is that, for example, the Socialist Party has had to swallow up the apobea of José Luis Bilbao. We know you didn't agree with that, but you had to swallow the toad. Why? For example, this week, because you've had the opportunity to name the neighbor of the district. And you call that a responsibility? That's what we call chrom exchange. And again shall I say: Inflammable. We don't have belts and we'll never have them again in any of these chromium tricks. And it's been the reflection of that vote today. Today we have chosen a person at the same time who is at the same time the superior power of Biscay, who is at the same time a member of the court. He says there's no inconsistency. And that's what you've accepted. That's what you've accepted. We have proposed another delegation, and there has not been a chance of a treaty. Then, because we do not agree with the dictatorship, we will vote only to our two colleagues, because we think that what has happened here today is, as I have said before, to the readiness of the court, to the respect due to the community, and to the respect due to its fellow-citizens, this exercise which has been here to-day, will obtain quite contrary attitudes. So, as I said, we're going to abstain from it, and we're only giving our two colleagues a vote. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u13	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, chief officers. Good morning, everyone. If it's so against you, Mr. Urruzuno, why don't you vote against it? Why did you give him credit? Because you also act in accordance with your interest. What is not possible is to give a vote of abstinence, as you have done, that he has had only one contrary vote, and that you have come here and tell him that you are quite contrary. So how do you vote? Today we will choose members of the American Basque Court which was admitted to this Chamber of 27 years ago. On repeated occasions we have heard the Basque Nationalists, our parliamentary group, criticizing the winds and comments made from Madrid, considering that they are simple replicas and that you can go alone and advance only with the Madrid court. However, from the Basque Nationalist Party we argue that the creation of this court was a very important step forward in the development of the economic and financial self-government of Euskadi and we continue to think the same. That it is necessary to modify or adapt the law that regulates it? Perhaps so, but not a short-term reform and not in an absolutely unstable regulatory environment. It's a great honor for our parliamentary team today to propose Jose Luis Bilbao, Begoña Marijuán and Eusebio Melero for the nomination. Because no doubt the three of them fill up the article that says the 15th of the 1988 law, because they all keep it. The three of them have a high-level university title, and the three of them have more than ten years of experience connected with the economic handling of Esscal public sector. Some political parties, following the usual dynamics, have sought to question the propriety of any proposed member. It must be said that the whole community have an acreed profession of work; in the case of José Luis Bilbao, which is more than thirty years in direct connection with the economic management of the public administration. The contribution of José Luis Bilbao to the public service and the correct and orderly management of public resources that he has made throughout this time is well known. It is striking that some political parties criticize something that has been historically commonplace, that people who have held responsibilities in Basque institutions become part of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. And I'll just give you some examples of that. Gotzon Olarte, proposed by Eusko Alkartasuna, was a member of the Basque Government before joining the Basque Court of Public Accounts. Juan Luis Laskurain, proposed by our parliamentary group, was a Member of the Treasury before becoming a member of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. Miragros García Crespo and Rafa Iturriaga were members of the Basque Government before being members of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. Do you doubt the competence of these people and the work that these people performed in the performance of their duties? Not us. We are absolutely certain that all have defended the general interest. It is also important to note that the law provides that the members of the court cannot audit or vote on matters affecting the institution from which they come, thereby authorizing the incorporation of institutional posts into the Basque Court of Public Accounts. On the other hand, 15th. the second section of the article demands that the whole majority of the United States of the Basque legislature should be nominated by the whole majority of the Union. Hence the agreement obtained between different groups is necessary. In this sense, we want to praise what we've got with the Socialist Group. The candidates we propose are the most suitable, Mr Semper. They're the best. There is no reason for incompatibility, as can be seen from the opinion of the Committee on Incompatibilities of this Basque Parliament which has just been adopted. They are perfectly eligible and without cause of incompatibility. They will also be appointed by the absolute majority of the Basque Parliament, which gives them the maximum possible democratic legitimacy. This is what the dictator says...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u15	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u16	Yes, I'm going to finish it. ...that they have no inconsistency at all. The candidates we present to-day are the best, and the procedure we shall continue to choose gives them all democratic privilege. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Chapter 15, and 214 of the Rule of the Parliament of the People's House of Investigation. in accordance with the article, the members of the Basque Court of the People's Accounts Department will be elected by the majority of its colleagues to the United States of the Basque Parliament. If all candidates aren't selected in the first vote, the vote will be repeated until everybody who's missing to vote among the other candidates is satisfied. By following Article 96.3.b of the Rule, people are chosen by cards. You have the names of all candidates who are introduced to vote on the ticket. Each member of the legislature can mark seven names in its own square. First of all, the first secretary at the desk will get a number and then the congressman will be called. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u18	Thirty-five. Llanos Gomez, Nerea. The first secretary called the congressmen to vote. A name vote has been made, which has been previously called to the members of the legislature, and this is the result: The votes given, 73; Mr. García Ruiz, Mr. 43, Mr. Quintanilla Angulo, Mrs. Crespo del Campos, lord of Bilbao Woods, 43, Mrs. Maero Beaskokocha, 43, Mr. Marijuán Arcocha, Mr.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u19	As a result, these were chosen to be members of the Basque Court of the People's Accounts Department: Mr. García Ruiz, Mr. Quintanilla Angulo, Mrs. Crespo del Campo, Mr. Bilbao Woods, Mr. Melero Beeras*, Mrs. Marijuán Arcocha, and Mr. Chokarro Amarriz. Forth point on the theme list: "Irration of the Board of Investigation and Country Policy, which has been written on the bill of the Law to prevent the contagion of the soil, and to cleanse what is unclean. Discipline and final resolution. "Mingorn has the word to introduce the bill." Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u20	Madame President, President, Chief, Congressman, good day. As director of the Basque environment, it's a pleasure to me to introduce a bill of law in order to avoid the contagion of the soil and direct it. This will take another step on the way to make the use of the soil bearable for the last few years, in keeping with the capacity for the production of ecological, economic, and social services on the floor itself. First of all, I'd like to point out the work several members of the legislature have done. That's why we've enriched the text of the bill of law by saying that we're all willing to have a rule that can guarantee the high level of quality of our autonomy soil in Erridia. Besides, by the law project, we are master of the countries around us in the art of designing and managing the actions of a weak, fragile, and unreproachable natural resource to men. I'd like to insist on the support of the social and economic operatings in our country. Environmental Department has contributed to guarantee the rights of public membership, and they have been extremely useful to form a rule. We all know the precedent of the bill of law which I hope to accept in unanimous terms: The law of 12005 is that of washing the Earth's forbidden and infected. The Irmus may be said to be a refrection between human activity and the protection of natural resources, which we so much desire to maintain amongst the nations. Undoubtedly the admission of the law of 1/2005 was a point of inflammatory inflammation, and by this means we increased the activities of studying and restoring the quality of the soil of this Eromia. We have restrained this rhythm, and have increased it: We've investigated more than 2,000 days. Nevertheless, the achievements made in this area, and the practical applications of the law of 1/2005 have shown some problems which require the modification of this law, namely, the purpose of the rule (that is to say, the protection of the soil and the contagion of the soil) to be collected in the most remarkable cases, according to the probable effect derived from the contagious activity and installations of the soil. To prepare a new regulator of text, for a proper technique of legislation, to replace the law entirely, from the fundamental principles of the project which had been formed in the previous legislation. The result is the bill that will be voted today in the legislature. The purpose of combining technical and legal parties is to protect the soil and avoid the contagion of the soil, to simplify and diminish administrative charges with the main premises and to maintain the standard standards of the quality of this Autonomia Erria. This project reduced the administration's intervention by a technique that collects the rules, i.e. as the activities which can pollute the soil are ranked by the capacity of infection, by designed tools. Thus the duties of knowing and controlling the quality of the soil have been formed according to this faculty. In accordance with this classification of administration procedures associated with the quality of the globe, they have been regulated by this division of application, as far as the content and the interest of the documentation is to be presented, and as regards the participation of the environmental organ which attends to the formation of these procedures. From this Illus, he has limited cases which ought not to be started by any of the projects which are regulated by the law, but that will not be a hindrance to the administration. Thus, the environmental organ of the Eredi, Autonomy, will be able to find out what the scope of activities is, and, in regard to the prevention and correction of the soil, it will be able to verify whether these establishments are adapted. I think it's important to highlight that the measures designed to limit the administration's intervention are intended to provide a general interest in protecting the health of our country. Besides, they maintain the transparency, efficiency, economy, and efficiency of the public power, because they are the indispensable parties of good administration. For this reason, this bill of laws makes special attention to guarantee information about the quality of the soil, and supports tools created by the 1/2005 laws, but it speeds them up and the legal effects of derivatives from disobeying their duties have been added. Thus, on the one hand, he collects the legislative projects, the inventory of the soil which contains possible activities or installations, and, on the other hand, the Administration of the Luzorian Quality. These and the information required in the registers of property will increase the legal security of the soil quality, and guarantee information about the quality of the soil. Another premise of this legal project is the public sharing. For only by the light relation of the public and private, can the quality of the soil be more known. Thus it is essential to the headlines of the soil, and to the proprietors, to the organs of environment in the Renaissance, and to the regulations which oblige the municipal bodies to be informed at once of the presence of the polluted substances on the floors, and the persons who are to be taken and executed. To structure this public-private relationship, the councils will have first-class operators to establish ground-quality policies. For this reason the bill of law is determined by local institutions to prevent contagion, and to restore the damages on the soil, as well as by placing preventions for the activities which may infect the soil, or by the processing of the soil which binds its rules. With this idea the special article has been added to the text by the contributions of the groups who represent this Chamber. Hence it is that the townships will be notified at the time when they begin and terminate within the limits of their townships, and that they can give only the necessary municipal licenses to establish their establishments and to execute their activities. In short, the new uses of manufactures and services are established, and it is intended to construct, to prevent, and to direct the contagion of the soil. I should like to briefly explain one of the parties that regulate the bill of law: the foresight of the regulation of debris and of the contagion of the soil. The predictions of the new policy are of special importance. For the rules expressly mark the places where the seal is required, or whether it has been an activity which foresees or has been able to leave ruins; and that the resolutions of the environmental organs in the Autonomia of the Renaissance have been carefully sealed, and that the subsequent beginning is carefully executed, and that the subsequent commencement be preserved, the valuation of the soil will follow, as well as the declarations of a compatible use. Besides, the text of the rule, according to the principle of prudence, sets bounds at the time of the use of the soil for the housing, if those soils had first been employed to leave ruins. The regulation of preventive contagion of the earth, and of the other regulations to protect the environment by which it is intended to unite the regulations, and of the arrangement of the balanced and integrated system of limiting the impacts on so many surroundings, the bill of law unites a command to the environmental organ of the Renaissance. Thus it will be necessary to inform the underground waters, places in hydrological interest, where the public javeri has been discovered by traces of the contagion which can cause the public to produce to the public hydraulic and the public guard of the sea or of the earth. This example shows clearly the importance of the cooperation of the institutions which the law endeavors to promote. For we know that the soil's roughness and improvements influence the environment of other areas, and we must provide for its direct management. The efficiency of the measures which the bill collects is necessarily based on technical tools, which enable us to know and control the quality of the soil. Hence these tools are of special importance in the regulation project, which has determined their minimum content and extent. However, the rule will succeed. At this point, I think it's essential to refer to the system of established organizations, created by the 1/2005 laws. The bill of law wishes to maintain this, because it thinks that this element of the community of autonomy soil is useful to the function of the organ which is natural to the organ. For as the preservation of environment and health is of general interest, it is indispensable that they have special technical knowledge in order to accomplish the ends of this policy. From what has been said before, we have changed some plans which the bill first collected, in order to obtain the consent of the members of the legislature. Another additional regulation has been added, in order that the government may accept a strategy connected with the foundations of the soil. The purpose of this will be to examine all the factors that can cause narcotics, for contagion is not the only phenomenon that can harm the quality of the soil. Thus, the loss of anger, salinization, or Biodybert, to mention a few instances, are serious damages, and, when necessary, they must be restored to their influence. For in this way alone we shall obtain the support of the environment of the soil-the economy, the society, the science, and the function of culture. Finally, I'd like to insist on the financial savings and the intervention of the administration being simplified, that the consent of the bill of law will help to improve the competitiveness of the industry and the sector of services. On the one hand, according to the economic memory presented to the project, it is foreseen that, when this rule is established, the public and private agents who have these obligations will be saved four million dollars a year, especially by the new regulation of the soil, which is connected with the quality of the billed soil. On the other hand, by the measures of administrative syllogisation received in the text, the files associated with the quality of the soil will be reduced to the modification of time. Thus the cultivation of the soil will be facilitated to re-establish, and new productions of activity will be faster, if necessary in advance, in the operation of evaluation and prevarication, in view of all the activities on the surface of the soil in a tolerable manner. Seeing all this, I hope that this legislature will give a unanimous opinion, which will be of great importance to this project, I think, in the future and in the future of our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Any members of the board would like to speak for judgment? No. Lively, we will defend all reserved corrections at once. Mr. Maeztu, representing the EH team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, president and chief departments. First of all, we'll keep only one of the three corrections we kept. So we withdraw correction 1 and 10 at this time and keep the 2nd alone. I'll explain the reason later. After that, I want to take advantage of this shift, in order to defend the correction we hold, even in order to explain the vote for us. Thus, as I have said, we shall vote for this change of laws. We will all agree that we are in the presence of a technical adaptation of a technical law, very exact and productive, to the adaptation of a law. To accept the law, to manage and to suffer the municipalities is a law which, being of the locality, is a direct relation to the management of the soil and the administration of the city. So it's important that a good co-ordination, and especially, and I want to point out this, that the process of sufficient material and economic resources can be really effective in this law. In this case the reality which we have been led by the practice of ten years has led us to change or adapt a law, but this adaptation would be left in nothing if the means necessary for execution were not established. It is of no use to establish a certain period of time in a law, if these periods are continued constantly. And they often stretch out because there's not enough resources. The adaptation of this kind has been the principal object of this legislation, but for the Basque People there has been another principal object in this discussion. Besides the contagion of the soil, or the correction of the soil, there are other undertakings which, independently of the contagion, injure the soil, have other undertakings which damage the soil itself, or the quality of the soil. So, apart from doing a specific planning on infected soil, we thought it important to have a general strategy around the ground. Hence an additional regulation has been received in this rule: Besides the plan of the soil which is regulated by this law, to favour, in two years' time, a general strategy, purchase, salt, density, and bioanticity, the loss, sealing, and restoring, from the natural function and use of the soil which is degraded from floods and floods, to preserve, preserve, and restore the loss of organic matter. Thus, as I have said before, the contagion is not the only danger for us, but we proposed to make another general strategy, and we thank the other groups, and in this case we thank the Government to accept an additional regulation with this general strategy. Finally, I need to remind you that we've kept a correction on article 30.4. With this correction we demand that the environmental organs of the environment should give the expression of the quality of the soil, before the distribution of the environmental organs is received by the system of land, or of a new arrangement of land or land, which has been or has been polluted. Before initial approval. Why do we ask for this? Because in the text that has been introduced, this expression is demanded before it can be accepted once and for all. For us, this opens the door to the speculation of the soil, because in an infected soil the change of calcation can first be granted, and from thence certain economic interests arise, and these interests may determine the decontamination and use permissions for the future of this soil. To ward off these temptations, it is best for us to give from the beginning the expression of the quality of the soil. That's why we're asking. Not to wait until it's accepted once and for all, but to give from the beginning an expression of quality. That's our correction. It won't condition our vote that happens with this correction. For us, it would be better with that correction. But, as I said before, we will vote for it, because we think that this legislation is necessary. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u23	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Anybody wanna be part of it? No. After the discussion, we'll vote. The second correction of the EH Collectors is made by the Article 31st. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters 20; contraries, 36; white, 0; Absences 16.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u24	It is not therefore accepted to be correction. 31th following. we'll vote for the article. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; in the votes given, 73; in favour of 53; in the contrary, 0; white, 0; abscesssions, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u25	Article 31 of the judgment has been accepted. Next, the articles that are without correction of judgment, namely, 1 to 24th, 26 to 30, 32 to 66; extra regulations from 1 to 5; transient regulations from 1 to 4th; regulators from 1 to 4; last regulations, first and second, as also the explanation and the name of law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 73; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u26	The Law of Washing the Earth with one mouth has been accepted. Then we'll take over the vote. Mr. Maneiro must not speak. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Indeed, we are faced with a law for the prevention and correction of soil pollution. Draft replacing Law 1/2005, which Eudel already reported at the time unfavorably, given the complexity of the application of that law. The department had to submit interpretative criteria for their application, with which the municipalities have managed the administrative procedures contained in this law, which could be described as very complex, prolonged in time by the delay of pronouncement of the environmental body. The law that we have passed today has no major changes to the previous legislation. The most significant developments come from the disproportionate nature of the previous regulations and the incorporation of the interpretative criteria of the environmental body. The rest of the autonomous communities – the boundaries affect us significantly – apply Law 22/2011, on Contaminated Wastes and Soils, a minimum legal framework that is far from our demanding regulations; not only from the management that the municipalities must carry out, but especially from the obligations of the owners and promoters of industrial activities, promoting unfavorable competition for the territories of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. We understand from the People's Group that this bill should have been dealt with after this House approved the amendment of Law 3/1998 on the Environment, since it will be this amendment that determines the legal regime of the different types of activities, thus leaving the municipalities unable to integrate preventive, defence, control and follow-up measures into their municipal resolutions. The amendments that we have tabled from the Group of the European People's Party, some of which are important, have been aimed at broadening the scope for exemption from the declaration procedures in the field of soil quality, given the evolution of the industrial sector, reducing large installations and targeting activities in small pavilions and other uses (equipment, cultural, entertainment, university, administration, tertiary use, offices and commerce and productive use). Other of our amendments have been aimed at raising the amounts of infringements in all their sections, which have also been accepted. We present them as part of the European principle of environmental regulation of which the polluter pays. We had another group of amendments aimed at improving legislation in the technical part. We have not been so successful in these amendments, but we have still not considered sufficient reason not to support the text that was put to the vote this morning. We understand that it is a law that could have been improved, but that has remained at a minimum acceptable. Work will have to be done to ensure that the management of the municipalities is much more agile and that it is more in keeping with the environment of the municipalities that surround us in other autonomous communities. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists represent the group. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u29	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. The Socialist Group voted in favour of this amendment because we felt it was necessary, in addition to being a defendant. And, above all, we believe that it will facilitate from now on the procedures for those affected by this law. The drafting of the new bill was a necessity arising from the experience of years of implementation of the current Law 1/2005, without losing sight of the fact that the first sanitation actions date back to the first years of the 1990s. This draft law, on the prevention and correction of soil pollution, represents a great effort, both for the public and the private, in terms of improving the law itself. The field of prevention acquires its value as an act and administrative effort, where the result, we understand, will be seen in the medium and long term. We also understand that this needs to be further developed, incorporating the criteria into other policy areas. We share the criterion of shifting the most operational and procedural aspects of law enforcement to lower standards. This bill has a very technical character, which is for the use not only of experts, but also of professionals, entrepreneurs and individuals who are not, and who are, however, affected by it. It has therefore been important to make the texts as clear as possible, as is the case with definitions. It has also been important to create exemptions from the ordinary procedure, as experience has indicated that this should be the case. We understand the criterion of transferring certain processes of lesser environmental risk to communication; not only does it speed up the availability of permits to promoters, but it also reduces costs. It gives the professional consulting sector greater relevance, which in turn allows the Administration to apply greater rigour in quality and reliability with such professionals. One aspect to be considered is the fact that, when assessing the success of the actions carried out, it is usually considered not only the area remedied, but also the economic and employment data associated with them and the volumes of materials excavated. The surface should not be the only environmental factor to consider, but also the positive effect generated in the environment, either in terms of avoided morbidity, or in improvements in ecosystems. Citizens should know that the significant cost they are bearing has measurable positive effects. It is not reasonable to spend large amounts of money without improvements in the areas mentioned. There can be no idea that the soil is being treated for treatment. As far as water protection is concerned – water has an important place in this change of law – our situation is not as critical as in other European states, because groundwater is not as important today in supply, irrigation and industrial use as elsewhere. However, it is a strategic resource and there should be a greater effort in monitoring and monitoring the quality of these waters in the environments where soils are listed both for industrial use and for landfills that have ceased their activity. That is why it seems that this aspect needs to be made more relevant in the various documents that are being issued. Details which, according to the new text, should and should become part of the regulatory area. We understand that this law has been claimed, although sometimes not understood by many affected sectors of society. We understand that with the unanimous agreement that we have reached in the amendment of this law it will improve the processing and application of this law. And, therefore, we understand that the implementation of this law will facilitate what had been demanded so far. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u30	Thank you, Miss Rojo. To conclude, Madame Arriganaga, the Eunerarian patriot, is the representative of the party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u31	Thank you, Mr. President and all of you. I must say that the arguments shown to us by the head of the Oregians agree with the view in which the several members of our legislature attempt to apply themselves to their activity, and that, without losing sight of the public view, we should attempt to combine the development with the prospects of the environment. The Euskal environmental police have already over 30 years of age, and during all these years there has been a lot of effort, both public and private, to lead them along the track of permanent Euskade. This legislature has also received several laws which aim at the attainment of it before this day. For instance, the law of 3/1998, the general law of the air, to protect the neighbourhood of the Basque Country, was the first of all the instructions which public administrations should apply to the protection of the soil. This law shows how the soil in its proper parameters and interlations, together with other elements, develops the environment into the life of man, and thus it is the command of the law to render the use of the soil permanent. To avoid new modifications to the quality of the earth, to decide the most urgent events, and to prevent such rapid interventions, were the planning for cases that were not necessary, 1/2005 Luzorua, for not to pollute and purge the infected law's fundamental lines of the law. The author of the law of 1/2005 means to present, adapt, repair, and repair the new law which we have admitted here today. The content of the law is very technical, very heavy, as I dare say, as we have been able to verify by those who have completed ponciency. The correctations of several groups have not made any doubt of the philosophy of the bill, that is, of the intervention of the Administration, of clearing, adapting itself to what is really necessary, but likewise of a higher degree of protection. Thus, to define better cases of the quality of the soil, to define the cases which are to be made, the connexion of the peculiar circumstances of the exceptions, and the establishment of the properties of the tables, have been considered as necessary by all the groups of which may be the controversial theme of all Françoises. I should even say that the great degree of agreement in the profession of power has been uncovered. Many submitted corrections have been accepted, many more half-accepted. Like the head of the department said, for example, it's ordered to make the ground strategy by an EH Collectation. The population party has been concerned with the necessity of the process of treatment of quality in certain cases. And the Socialist Party has made several statements by improving the content of the law, such as the definition of activities which are linked to the course of danger or to the contact of the earth. We ourselves have also introduced some corrections in order to improve the original art of the project. As I have said, the agreement seems to me to be manifest both in power and in the election of today, and to be truly grateful.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Five point in theme list: "The dispensation of the Confederation, Security, and Justice Committee, made upon the bill of Law on the Civil Law of Euskal. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to defend their judgment? ... We shall next pass on to defend together all the reserved corrections. Mr. Arzuga, representative of the EH Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u33	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. I said, in the discussion of the previous examination of the board, that the text of this law of Euskal Civil Law could not be protected as it is, but that we would vote in favor of considering it. We weren't satisfied with this law, by the form made, by your content and even by your dimension. October left us. We thought, from our point of view, that this was already a difficult direction. This time it was impossible to anticipate much longer, so at the next step we have our strength, our eyes fixed upon them. To make that attitude obvious, we introduced five corrections. Two of these half-way ones were received in some way, and three others were ignored, which we reserved for this present discussion. In our amendments, we wanted to emphasise that this law was short-lived, lame and, moreover, subordinated to common civil law. We proposed with the first of the amendments to delete the mention of the explanatory statement which determines the ceiling that our legislative initiative should have. Textually it is said – and today it is going to be approved – "always within the limits defined by constitutional jurisprudence". Limits demarcated. Too much delimitation for us and ourselves, too much corset, too low a roof, which moreover does not depend on us, which is not in our hands. This law seems to be more concerned about the limits than about the extent to which it should be adopted. Extension that, in view of where other autonomous communities have come from, we are still light years away from meeting, with such limitation. It is therefore born with its amputated ambition. The second of the amendments we had reserved was to recall that article 1 on sources of law, in addition to other laws (newly referring to Spanish laws, to the Civil Code), there are other Basque civil laws which should also be listed as a source. In fact, we introduced in the amendment a list of laws of such content that should be included in an acquis, in a whole, that we should call Basque civil law. Finally, we were introducing an amendment to amend Article 22, which dealt with ways of testing. An example of the subsidiarity of this law, of its continued references to the Civil Code, which it adopts as the reference code. We understood that all possible ways of testing should be listed in this territory, and that is why we simply indicated what the methods of testing would be, according to this law and only according to this law. Our will is precisely to move forward in our civil law system, breaking ties with that common civil law. These amendments were but an example of our political position. These amendments did not reflect the fact that this law lacked ambition, which is presented as a inferior law, subordinated, subject to Spanish common civil law. And these amendments clearly reflect EH Bildu's willingness to take the necessary steps to overcome this situation and face this debate. We didn't want to stick our finger in the sore, but only and exclusively look forward. That's why we said that this law seemed very rare to us, and that we were prepared to go further. That's why we said we won't refuse to take this step, but this step is very short. This step, which is here to-day, is really a short cut for us. Those who defended the law and made it known to us that it was adapted to the needs of the people. Good. We won't stop that. You tell us that he'll ease the work of the legal operators, clears some of the doubts that are in the offices, and also answers to some elements that are aquatic. Good. We won't stop that. You tell us it's a law of the best technique. We doubt that, but we won't stop it. But, as we say, EH gathered himself in the next step: We must make a great discussion to identify the wants of the citizens, to satisfy the privileges of the juridic operators, and to appreciate the method and legal techniques which academics propose to us. We wanted this road to be more precise. For this reason other amendments were proposed about the affairs and composition of the Commission of the Civil Law; and this, as I say, appears in the middle way. But we understood, and I want to point out, that the laws must have a vocation of permanence; this must not. Let us hope that this law will be born with the vocation of being immediately modified and immediately developed; if it is preferred, overflowing in its narrow limits, in its territorial fragmentation, in its limited substantive content. We do not want our abstention to be understood in today's bill as a rejection of the work done, as a contempt for the efforts made. Rather, we would like it to be understood as an openness to a new phase that we must embark upon, we consider, with care and determination. A task in which no one can fail: neither technicians, nor academics, nor operators of law, nor territorial representatives, nor legislators. Our abstention, as that is going to be the attitude that we will adopt, calls for further work to include and bring coherence to existing or soon to exist laws which have content of Basque civil law. Our abstention will reflect a call for the establishment of current civil law institutions that will also serve all citizens. Our abstention aims to show definitely a willingness to face the ambitious challenge of deepening and developing Basque civil law in order to vertebrate the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u34	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Would anyone like to join the other round? Popular parties. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u35	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that I did not intend to intervene in the turn against, but, in view of some demonstrations, I think I should correct some things. We are told that this law is subordinate to ordinary law. I will only remind Mr Arzuaga that common law has been in force in Gipuzkoa and Álava for over 500, 600 or 700 years. And, incidentally, what this law does is that in those territories they operate instruments and rights that that common law that you say does not allow. Therefore, I do not see where you find the subordination to a common right that, of course, must be complementary everywhere, because it is what applies and what people know. Because we're talking civil law. This thing of making country with civil law... Civil Law – I don't know if you know it, but this law also captures it – is part of the principle of freedom, the freedom of people to choose means, those who better understand what they need, to realize their life, their property, their family. And what this law does is to give more options to some who previously had less, precisely in those places where you say it is subject to ordinary law. The common law governs completely, and certainly in Gipuzkoa (except for the exception of the transmission of the house, which we did in this Parliament not so long ago), 100 per cent, ruled 100 per cent. So, come say that here, with this law that does the exact opposite, I don't understand. And that the law is born, according to you, to change it the day after tomorrow. I'd like to know exactly what you want to change from this law. I will tell you that in this law many people have been working for more than 10 years to solve problems of people, citizens, Basques, day by day. And it solves the problems of the Basque neighbourhood. The Basque civil neighbourhood is created to resolve conflicts of points of disconnection with the Civil Code, with other outlaw regimes. Ayalesa is maintained for the freedom to test and usufruct. The extraneous peculiarities of each territory are maintained in the areas. It creates a Basque neighbourhood that gives mechanisms to people who previously did not have them, if you want to use them. Because we're talking about freedom. In one of your amendments you tell us what wills should be like. What you want me to say, we have more formulas in this country a lot longer. In addition to the test and the intested one, we have the will per commissioner, which I do not know if it is tested or intested, but, of course, would be of another kind. And in this law that complies with that principle of civil liberty, things that could not be done so far, such as favoring the widowed spouse or the de facto partner who becomes a widow, are allowed to have more protection mechanisms, while in those places where you said you had to go to the usufruct of the Civil Code. Not today. Today it has practically the powerful usufruct throughout the Basque Country, the one who wants to use it; the will by commissioner throughout the Basque Country, the one who wants to use it. And it is regulated in default of covenant, in matrimonial regimes, that of profit, the common, which is the one that is, the one that exists, and the one that people know, basically in Gipuzkoa and in Álava, and of foral communication for the vizcay aphorates and that of separation of goods for the couples in fact. In the absence of a people's pact, because people have the freedom and the possibility to set the regime that they think is most convenient. Nor do I know whether it has much to do with the Civil Code that here, with this reform that is being made, citizens, all of them, are given more freedom when it comes to fixing the inheritance and the heirs. It establishes two thirds of absolute freedom to test (as far as I recall, the Civil Code establishes two thirds of legitimate) and the remaining third will be able to choose the heir, whomever he wants and whatever he wants. You give yourself that freedom. So, if the matter was not to vote in favour, okay, they're not going to vote in favour. But the arguments, let me tell you that I have not understood absolutely any, because what this law does is quite the opposite of what you have said is this law. And I remind you that we are not here in the field of civil law either to make a country or to make a homeland. We are to solve people's problems, not to create them, and not for some to pretend to go into history by doing not know what megaleyes or I don't know what things nobody asks on the street for at all. And, simply, I want to finish my speech by thanking all the people who have worked all these years for this bill to be here, and, if I may, I reflect it in the person of Adrian Celaya, who is obviously the one who worked most from the beginning. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u36	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing on the answers, Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u37	Thank you. Very short. Perhaps the most convincing example that we could not support this text is that it is the PP who is blaming us for this attitude. Perhaps the satisfaction that you show, Mr Damborenea, with this law is the best justification for us to think that it is short, that it is lame, that it is superficial; that it maintains institutions, perhaps with a great deal of attachment and with a great deal of historical roots, something that you continually value, but that we consider that it maintains what you have called, moreover, peculiarities, which for us are only questions many times with attachment to antiquity, but not to the needs, to the emergencies that today in civil law can be presented to both citizens and legal operators and also to academics. I'm not going to go in and have a discussion about the content. I would tell you that if you really value the freedom to test (I understand that the Ayalese, I also understand that the one practiced in Nafarroa, I also understand that the one in Catalonia), that will be what will have to work and that will be what will have to be disseminated. And, once that institution spreads and serves precisely all the citizens of all the territories, perhaps then we are talking about making a civil right that is a country. You say that it has always been the Civil Code that is used as a reference, as a right from which these other foreign rights emanate; it has been so in the last 500 or 600 years. And what I'm telling you is that with this law it will continue to be so. And it will continue to be so from the back to the representative institutions of these territories, to professional institutions of these territories and also to academic institutions. We voted for a abstention for the text, but we also voted for a abstention for the context, for our political position. We support this rule, which is critical support. Or, if you wish, otherwise we will not give our support if it is not criticism. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u38	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. The second round to answer. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u39	Very briefly, Madam President, because I do not recall saying at any time that foreign rights depend on or derive from the Civil Code. I'm telling you to make it clear. What I have said is that in Gipuzkoa and Alava it has governed the Civil Code for many centuries, as in Bizkaia it ruled the Bizkaia Fuero. Which doesn't mean the Bizkaia Outing comes from the Civil Code or anything like it. I'm saying it so it's clear that I didn't say that. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u40	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. The discussion's over and we'll start the vote. It's in the vote on the third page of the EH Collect Group, made for article 1. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; in favour 20; the contrary, 53; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u41	It is not therefore accepted to be correction. 1st followed by judgment. we'll vote for the article. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters of 52; oppositions, 20; white, 0; abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u42	Article One of Judgments has been accepted. The fourth Amendment of the EH Collecting Group is the 10th voter, 22. the article was made. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; in favour 20; the contrary, 53; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u43	Consequently, the amendment has not been accepted. On the 22nd course of judgment. we'll vote for the article. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters of 52; oppositions, 20; white, 0; abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u44	Article 22 has been approved of targetion. The articles that are at the same time without the correction of judgment are put into vote. That is to say, from 2 to 21, 23 to 146, the additional regulations from 1 to 3, the transient regulations from 1 to 7th, the imperturbable and the last regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters of 52; rivals, 0; white, 0; abstations, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u45	So they're accepted. The 1st Amendment of the EH Collect team is on the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; in favour 20; the contrary, 53; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u46	Consequently, the amendment has not been accepted. We shall next put the explanation and the name of the law to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters of 52; rivals, 0; white, 0; abstations, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u47	So the law on the Civil Law of Euskal is accepted. We'll go next to the vote. Maniro? He's not going to talk. The Social Party representative. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u48	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I will start by saying one thing that goes according to you: Law is a social science that is inspired by postulates of justice and that constitutes the normative and institutional order that regulates human behavior in society. In other words, it is the set of rules that makes it possible to resolve conflicts within societies. And civil law is nothing other than the legal costume in which we wear people's realities in the private sphere. And people's realities, their private relationships are not immutable; they change, they change over time. And legal institutions must also do so, they must adapt to these changing realities, if what they claim is, as Mr Damborenea said, and it is the end of this law, to facilitate people's lives. And I say people's lives because our lives are a continuous throng of acts that produce legal effects. Every day marriages are celebrated, economic-marriage regimes are established or dissolved. Every day wills are granted, inherited, countless legal businesses are carried out. On 23 April, with the consideration of this legislative proposal that we have concluded today, we started a process of legislative amendment that had been demanded with insistence by the legal operators. Lawyers, notaries and registrars demanded from the legislator a new law that would adapt to the times, put equity and equality in the regulatory puzzle to the extent possible and guarantee security in the legal traffic; that, in the end, adjust the seams of the suit to the body, that would allow comfort, greater freedom of movement. Because this law, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Damborenea has also said and as is literally stated in the law, affects the right of citizens to organize their lives, their family and their heritage. It contains for the first time a nuclear concept, a clear institution and, above all, a useful one, the Basque civil neighbourhood, which is ultimately the one that will determine the applicable law and we hope that it will duly address the resolution of the conflict of laws. The laws that we repeal today were an important milestone from the point of view of the normative, because a very important part of the sources of private law in our country come from the customary law, from the custom, from institutions that intuitively established our ancestors in a different historical period, with a different reality, and that it was up to update to make them available – which is ultimately what it is about – to the citizens of the 21st century. He told them in the consideration that there was still a small tour to make the law a reality, but that the broad agreement in origin, as well as having counted on all those who brought his vision (Academia Basque del Derecho, the university, law schools... A special mention, as it could not otherwise be, of Don Adrián Celaya), and also having counted on those who will have to apply this new regulation (lawyers, notaries, registrars), allowed us to hope that the final approval would not be too late. And so it has been. Today, two months later, we approved this law, which was born to update our civil architecture outside, seizing consensus between different to remedy as far as possible the shortcomings of Basque private law, guaranteeing certainty, equality and legal certainty to Basque citizenship. So I end up where I started. With this proposal, with this law which we have adopted, we have recovered a concept which the Socialists especially value and which is in the spirit of all the initiatives which we have presented and which we will present throughout the legislature: the process of building the Euskadi of the 21st century, expanding the catalogue of rights of Basque citizens. We adopt rules, ladies and gentlemen, which endorse the equality of citizenship, without renouncing either particularities or traditions, and with a broad and frank agreement. We increase freedom of choice, because choosing and deciding is synonymous with freedom, indeed. And Montesquieu said: "My freedom is the right to do what the laws allow me to do." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña, your word is yours. MARI-REERBERTY, Mr. IBARERAL: Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all. The personality of a people is seen in its public relations, but not in the least in its private relations, as well as in the eye of the external and the inward. The step here today, I think, is very important and very important, very important in these respects. This law arises both from the questions raised by the application of Law 3/1992 of 1 July on the Civil Law of the Basque Country and from the necessary adaptation to the new legislative realities. To quote some, here are the couples in fact, shared custody, mediation, small businesses, etc. European law and its possible adaptation to Basque civil law should also be mentioned. This law reflects the agreement adopted by this Parliament on 28-11-2013 for the updating of Basque civil law. I will briefly mention some of the contents of the law. A crucial issue to be highlighted is the transition from a civil right of each of the historical territories to a Basque civil right. The principles of property law are also laid down. Successions and the property regime of marriage are regulated. And there are a number of classic and well-known institutions of Basque Foreign Civil Law; thus, the freedom to test, the truncality or the family and the farmhouse. Therefore, some of the references that have been made earlier to the Civil Code I believe have been made in a wrong way. I would like to make it clear that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is competent to establish the rules of internal conflict, ad intra, between the Basque civil neighbourhood and the local civil neighbourhoods of the Basque Autonomous Community. That is why the references that have been made earlier regarding the Civil Code I believe have been misinterpreted, although, since it is not a turn of reply or debate, I will leave it here. The first supplementary regulations are the Committee of the Civil Law of Euskal. It's going to be the Red Lawdune and the Red Beetle's Organ, and its purpose is to promote investigations and change of laws on the subject. As you see, I have limited myself to making some small notes, but which, although very briefly, show us the great importance of the law that we have adopted today. We are talking nothing less than the backbone of the rules governing private relations in our society. In conclusion, I would like to thank all those who, during these more than 20 years since the publication of Law 3/1992, have presented a number of initiatives that have allowed the advancement and updating of Basque foreign civil law to continue. This law has been made possible by them. It is a law created by the initiative of different areas of Basque society; in fact, we are faced with a law of social initiative, without collecting signatures, but providing the contents of it. Thank you, all of you. Today's step is very important, and for me it's enormous. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u50	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. fifth bis dot in the theme list: "All this is to examine a composition of compensation for the persons who are injured by the use of the stocks, politics, and the Housing Committee, and the use of the materials of the amanias. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs. Sánchez Martín has the word to explain her judgment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u51	Thank you, President. To present a minimum basis for a unanimous agreement by Parliament is an honour to me, as I have had the opportunity to draw up this report. I must confess that personally, as a labour inspector who for 20 years has witnessed penalties and fighting in the courts of those affected by asbestos, enabling the path of reparation is a relief and compensation of my political work, insufficient but important. It is now clearly admitted that there is strong evidence in the relationship between mesothelioma cases and asbestos consumption in different countries; not 15 years ago. We have made some progress, but there are still very important steps to be taken, and in this regard today we are going to take a giant step and we will adopt this opinion unanimously, because in the need for its creation all the parliamentary groups in this House agree. In this opinion, the Basque Parliament has decided to tackle one of the most serious issues facing thousands of workers, citizens and family members of workers who have been exposed to asbestos. It therefore considers it necessary to set up a compensation fund to compensate those affected, in part, for the damage suffered by exposure to asbestos in the past. All respondents have expressed support for the establishment of a compensation fund to compensate victims. Its creation is necessary, and also essential, in cases where the victims have worked in different companies or the companies in which the exhibition took place no longer exist. And it ensures the survival of many companies, mainly small ones, since such compensations are difficult to fit in with. No one else has done it before, we opened the way in Euskadi. We started it at the end of the last parliamentary term and we have come to a minimum shared, but the road must continue to pass. The aim of the parliamentary presentation has been achieved by the appearances and meetings held in the ninth and tenth legislatures, which, together with the contributions of the political leaders and the analysis of the different documentation, have facilitated the presentation to have formulated its considerations and 21 conclusions. In this presentation I will confine myself to referring to the most important ones, because it is not possible to mention them all in 15 minutes. The constitution of the paper has been timely and beneficial given the volume of people affected by exposure to existing asbestos fibres and will increase in the coming years until 2023. From this date the figures will be stabilized and a rapid downward trend will be started, taking into account the end of latency periods after the time since the possible exposure. That's the forecast. However, still in Spain, despite the number of people affected, there is no compensation fund for them, as is the case in other countries of the European Union. The paper has considered it necessary to address the desirability of establishing this compensation fund for those affected by asbestos and its scope, whether state or autonomous community, as well as its form of financing. And we believe it must be the state; not for avoiding responsibilities, but for giving guarantees to those affected. A fund in Euskadi does not sufficiently guarantee those affected; we aim to ensure that they do not continue to fight in the courts, that Social Security recognizes a professional disease resulting from material whose use has been accepted in the past and that it has now become torture for the victims. Asbestos has a difficulty in compensating for its pathologies, given the period of latency for the disease to manifest from the time of exposure, because it is very prolonged in the most severe pathologies: between 20 and 30 years in asbestososis and lung cancer, and between 40 and 50 years in pulmonary mesothelioma. This generates that in many cases, having such a long period of latency, when the disease occurs workers are already retired or companies have disappeared, since we may be referring to exposures that occurred between 20 and 50 years earlier. Or workers have been able to provide services in different companies, thus hindering the exact definition of the company in which the exposure occurred. This creates a difficulty in identifying the companies responsible for the payment of compensation which may correspond to those affected. Many of these companies have also been able, over time, to undergo conversions, splits and transformations, which can also make it much more difficult to identify which one might be responsible. This involves enormous detective work and a difficult effort on the part of those affected or their families to identify the company to which they have to claim, many of which are left uncompensated despite the damage to their health or death. Another added problem is the judicialization of proceedings. Victims must fight to claim their rights with social security agencies and mutual societies and in the courts. The workers concerned and their families are involved in legal proceedings at a high economic cost, because the problem is that it is not worth having the disease, but that it must be shown that asbestos has been exposed to work. And many of the companies don't provide documentation and evidence for it. Those affected find it difficult to demonstrate the exposure and in which company or companies the exposure occurred. To this must be added the legal uncertainty of what results from the process and its prolongation over time, as these are very long processes. In addition, for those affected there are very short periods of time to be able to carry out damages actions: one year after the death of the person or the recognition of the occupational disease. Often the psychological condition of the affected person or his or her family members means that, when they wish to react, the time limit for claiming their rights has expired. All these difficulties justify the request for a compensation fund. The compensation fund ensures that those affected families or workers who have been barred from legal proceedings for not having a business to which to claim compensation are compensated, even if in part, with the amounts determined to be collected. But in order to be able to have the compensation fund, it is also necessary to have a financing that nourishes it. How to finance it? Through the INSS, which would mean that it necessarily has to have a state sphere, or through solidarity contributions from employers? These days we have read the sentence that recognized the rights of a woman to wash her husband's work clothes containing asbestos. It is 20% of the cases of people not exposed to work, but affected by environmental or domestic pollution. For these assumptions, the current compensation system is inoperative and can only be contested. The number of people affected is really high (the data are in the report) and will continue to increase until 2023. It is therefore of great importance to raise the need for a compensation fund now. Within the European Union there are three compensation funds for those affected by exposure to asbestos fibres: in France the FIVA, in Belgium the AFA and in Holland the IAS. The three existing funds are linked to the social security regulations of each country. We only have three reliable examples. From here we will have to assess whether we come to the French assumption, which is the one of maximum coverage for those affected, or we are left with a lower coverage system. It is clear that the French example is the most complete and can be comparable, because it occurs before ours and because what has happened in France is going to happen to us. The differences between the three models are clearly set out in the opinion and I am therefore not going to enter them. Also, as stated in the conclusions, Osalan stated in his appearances that when considering the creation of this compensation fund, three parameters must be assessed: the number of active population, the amount of asbestos consumed and the number of deaths directly affected. In Spain, between 1960 and 1995, 2,300,000 tons of asbestos have been consumed, 30% less than the amount consumed in France, allowing us to extrapolate the proportional rate of mesotheliomas that will be produced in Spain and the economic amount that could be assumed, depending on the compensation system that was chosen. It should also be borne in mind that, in view of the period of latency, the vast majority of cases will be diagnosed when there is no longer an employment relationship, so only those affected will be able to go directly to Social Security. Therefore, as stated in the fifth and sixth conclusions, it is considered logical that compensations and pensions should come out of social security contributions, from the state level, after the occupational disease has been recognised, and it is proposed that this compensation fund should be state rather than autonomous. One of the reasons that is argued to defend this state character of the fund is that the use of the product was authorized by the State until 2001, and recognized as a professional disease by the Social Security, so some responsibility must assume the system for the consequences arising from this situation. It is also difficult to confine it to a given area; if it is not State-wide, inequalities can be generated by autonomous communities. The creation of the fund is important, because it is the opportunity to compensate for damages to the affected persons without having to go through all the courts, for the recognition of the occupational disease when they are already retired, or are deceased and it is their family members who have to claim the funds. The creation of this fund would provide compensation to the victims without affecting the interests of the companies or the disappearance of some of them because they could not bear the cost of the compensation required by the persons concerned. It is a difficult time for the creation of a fund for the economic situation, but surely, by better managing and organizing the contribution funds of entrepreneurs, workers and mutuals who manage this money, you could get enough money to finance the compensation fund. But the fund must also be effective in the speed of its responses and must be a fund whose benefits are equivalent to judicial compensation, sponsored by the State and Social Security, in order to discourage those affected from going to court, and also with generous compensation. It is a reality that judicial claims have been reduced in the countries where the fund has been created. The fund is created to overcome an injustice, so that all victims are compensated equally, unless a victim takes the risk of going to court on his own. In conclusion 15 it also states what should be the actors involved in it: the State, the autonomous communities, social security, mutual societies, businesses and workers, and those affected. The compensation fund must assess whether it includes environmental and domestic exposure within its scope, in addition to exposed workers. We have examples to follow. It is expensive, of course, but our country deserves proper treatment of this serious problem, in a more dignified way and in accordance with a European country. However, it will be necessary to consider which of the European models presented is considered the most appropriate to follow it in our country. Its creation may be costly, but it would result in the resolution of the claims of those affected in an orderly manner, the elimination or large reduction of conflicts and judicial claims, speeding up the system and saving time and money and a calvary for those affected. We therefore propose to the Congress of Deputies the creation of this fund, and a working group could be set up to decide on all the issues contained in the 21 conclusions in a consensual manner and contained in the opinion. The conclusions also set out the desirability of drafting a law for the creation and financing of an asbestos compensation fund. It's worth it and it's justice for the victims. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u52	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Now that the discussion is over, the decision of the committee is made to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; the opponents are 72; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u53	The judgment has been unanimously accepted. Next, we'll vote. Mist? He mustn't speak. Popular party? Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to the representatives of those affected by asbestos in this House. We in the Group of the European People's Party have voted in favour of this report, being clear that it is a minimum report. We fully agree with the Group of the European People's Party and agree on the need to set up a compensation fund to compensate victims of asbestos, especially those affected by difficulties in demonstrating a link with a specific undertaking, as detailed in the report. The paper begins with the agreement of this House to "constitute a study paper in order to analyse the content, purposes and responsibilities of a possible asbestos compensation fund, within the European context, which will raise its conclusions in terms of proposals, so that its recommendations can be incorporated into the Basque Labour Health Strategy". The report contains all the factors that can be decisive in the creation of the fund and which the various participants have been exposing. It has been a long but very productive work, mainly because of the great knowledge capital about asbestos, the effects and the serious consequences it has caused in thousands of people. There is one fact, ladies and gentlemen, which is not reflected in the report, but which is very important to the Group of the European People's Party. According to the Cepross data from Social Security (in "Number of parts reported by disease group, causative agent and autonomous community"), the rate of cancer due to occupational disease, and which is essentially the asbestos within the carcinogens, in the Basque Country is 3.28. Three times the average state rate. This fact should make us reflect. It is sufficiently alarming that the Group of the European People's Party thinks that, in parallel with the possible creation of a fund, it is necessary to address other aspects which would also alleviate the situation of those affected and which have also been presented in the presentation by some rapporteurs. I am referring to actions that must be initiated by the Basque Government. Already the previous Government offered the Association of Amicados the development of an asbestos plan. A plan that, we understand from the People's Group, must put in place measures to repair the damage caused by asbestos to those affected and their families. The Basque Government has a number of measures that can be implemented, and from various departments: to put more alert on asbestos and those affected in the actions of the departments, mainly Housing, Health, Labour and Environment. And there are several performances that can be done from each department. The RERA, the register of companies that have handled asbestos, can and should be updated from the work council. Only companies dealing with asbestos-free protocols are registered today. Osalan has already warned in the paper that asbestos and exposure to asbestos have been found in many companies that are not registered. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a work that must be tackled urgently, because the implementation of the protocols will depend, and to a large extent depends, on that register. Therefore, if we want applications to be as comprehensive and as accurate as possible, we need to be more rigorous in the lists of workers who have been exposed. Preparation of an asbestos map based on the cases detected. Strengthen information campaigns on asbestos issues in potentially exposed groups. Since the Health Council, greater coordination with Osalan for the implementation of specific health surveillance protocols. Creation of specific units within the Departments of Pneumology and Digestives. Protocols to new cases of asbestos. From the Department of Housing, control of licenses for rehabilitation works in buildings. Coordination with Osalan. That has been repeated repeatedly in the paper. Lack of coordination, coordination between departments. Nor does this report reflect the initiatives that some groups, in the form of amendments to the 2015 budgets, put forward in this House in order to help those affected or family members to cope with the costs they face in medical evidence and in the courts. From the People's Group we believe that we have an important job to do, for example, for the Basque Labour Health Strategy to have a specific section on asbestos, in addition to the need to draw up an asbestos plan.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u55	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u56	We are satisfied with the agreement reached, but it is a minimum agreement. We have a lot of work to do in this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. The Social Party representative. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u58	We have heard this morning a summary of a work that has been extended over time, a long time. This Parliament and the previous one have taken up the asbestos presentation. Therefore, it strikes to say nothing more about it. But I want to say that, in any case, we are here precisely to sponsor, to promote the creation of a compensation fund for those affected by asbestos. And I will explain at this point why we voted in favour of this report. Spain joined the International Labour Organization in 1919 and, except for the period 1941-1956, in which it was absent, has signed the conventions and recommendations emanating from those conferences being held by the International Labour Organization. Article 19 of the Constitution of that body states that, in the case of recommendations, "the recommendation shall be communicated to all members for their consideration, in order to implement it through national legislation or otherwise; each member shall submit the recommendation within one year of the closure of the meeting of the Conference". There is a recommendation on asbestos – which is to say asbestos – of 1986, which in paragraph 35 says: "National legislation", refers to the member states of that International Labour Organization, "should provide benefits for workers who contract a disease or suffer a functional impairment related to occupational exposure to asbestos, in accordance with the Convention on Benefits in the Event of Occupational Accidents and Diseases", 1964 Convention. On the other hand, there is a memorandum from the same organization on the obligation to submit the conventions and recommendations to the competent authorities, and it says: "The competent authority is the one which, in accordance with the national Constitution of each State, has the power to legislate or to take any other measure to give effect to the conventions and recommendations". "The competent authority should normally be the legislative authority". "The provisions of article 19 of the ILO Constitution establish the obligation to submit to the competent authorities in all cases the instruments adopted by the Conference, without exception and without distinction between the conventions and the recommendations." "In accordance with the formal provisions of article 19 of the Constitution, the submission of texts adopted to the competent authorities must take place within one year or, in exceptional circumstances, eighteen months." This means that there is an empowerment in international treaties that are part of our domestic law, which establishes the need for national legislation that in one way or another covers the damage suffered by persons affected by asbestos. That is why we voted in favour of that report. But we understand, as the spokesman who preceded me in the use of the word said, that we are halfway there. This Parliament has legislative initiative capacity and, therefore, its work should not end here, but should continue to carry out that initiative where it belongs. In addition to all that said, there is also, we understand, a generic responsibility, a patrimonial responsibility for environmental damage, because all these products were imported, marketed, distributed... And there were standards, occupational safety standards that sought to protect against risks, but it is clear that they were not sufficient and that, therefore, the damage that occurred demonstrates that the means put in place were not enough to protect workers from that exposure. And that is why we voted in favour of the report, and that is why we continue to insist that work does not end here, but that we must undertake a common and shared task, as we have agreed in this report, to bring this legislative initiative to the Congress of Deputies. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u59	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u60	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. First, the representatives of the Asviamie Society, be good and welcome to the legislature. First, in this turn of arguing our suffrage, EH Collect wants to make it clear that the steps we're going to take in this Chamber today are extremely advanced. We cannot forget that the birth of this enterprise was owing to Mr. Aguirregation in 2011. It's been four years, so it's the end of this power that can be appreciated. We believe that the work of the working people has been too long, and if it has been long for us, imagine what this extension has been to the sick people. It is obvious that for many years the workers have been under the influence of the amianto, under the influence of this slowly killing mineral. The amania used because it was economically profitable, though it was known that it was harmful to people's health. Therefore, in this case, the workers have been once more losers and are being. And the truth is that not only do the workers lose because they had contact with asbestos without knowing what they were exposed to; the most serious thing is that today those who are affected by this mineral have been suffering it in silence, in the shadow, to our understanding unhung by the institutions, fighting and fighting in absolute solitude, so that their illness is recognized as a professional disease. That is why we believe that it is time for institutional progress, we believe that it is time for steps to be taken, however witness they may be, to bring this collective out of the shadows. That is why we voted in favour of the report. But we have to say that this Dr. EH Bilri dictatorship leaves a taste of salt. Sweet, as we have said, because we are giving a significant advance this evening; first and unanimously, because the Spanish State demands to create a dose of compensation, to pay the sick for the amanias. And salt because this dictatorship does not receive the results or recommendations we expected. We had to determine, in our opinion, on the part of the amianto work which are pathologically deserving of compensation, how the compensation itself, its amount, will be financed, etc., etc., and so on. But all this is not determined and the doors are left open through recommendations. It's true that we asked ourselves to remain as we are in the position of a minimum agreement, because we can't forget that we are in a very serious situation, that many families are suffering, and that this is a very important impulse to produce compensations for these people. We did not want to delay this situation any longer. That is why we consider today the opinion which we adopted unanimously to be valid. But we also want to announce that this step is only the beginning of a long way to go. Many aspects remain to be resolved, such as the creation of the asbestos map, because we cannot forget that we continue to live surrounded and surrounded by asbestos. We are faced with a problem that has not disappeared, as exposure to asbestos fibres is present in a wide range of activities, and workers today continue to be at high risk for asbestos-free work or maintenance and reform work. Moreover, this toxic mineral also causes deaths from inhalation beyond the world of work, and we cannot forget that either. So we'll have to put on our homework. And, no doubt, from now on we won't just run the appeals we're going to make to the World Government, we'll also ask the Basque Mitch, because the responsibilities will have to be distributed here. Nevertheless, congratulations on the work of these four years. And thank you all who have been in the show of the team, for expressing their opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u62	Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. The opinion marks the long way forward to which some other speakers referred. It marks the institutional response necessary to face a change in reality. A change in reality that has generated and unfortunately will continue to generate in the coming years: unjust, affected situations, innocent victims. Until the last sixty-year-old was safely in the '80s, the amiant produced in a massive manner and marketed. Besides the production and selling of the product, it was almost magical. He was excellent, hard, and flexible against fire. At first they didn't know the damage that could cause exposure to her, her toxity. The risk of its toxicity occurs when handling asbestos, so that it can be released into the environment, its fibers can be inhaled and deposited inside the body. The body is unable to remove that fiber and there is an evolution during the period of latency towards the disease. Different types of injuries occur, some mortals, such as mesothelioma, which necessarily derives from an exposure to asbestos, so you have to look for that exposure in the working life of the affected person; or others, such as lung cancer. It can also cause non-fatal but severe injuries, such as lung plaques. Its use is prohibited in the State, as has already been mentioned, since 2001, and the only permitted activity that generates an exposure is the removal of asbestos already placed before that date, carried out by specifically authorized and registered companies. The use of asbestos is officially prohibited in the European Union in 2005. Despite the ban, it can continue to damage health by the existence of a large amount of material containing it. The number of people affected is really high. According to state mortality records, between 1994 and 2008 4,000 people died of pulmonary mesothelioma. And, as has also been mentioned above, the estimate tells us that they will continue to increase until the years 2020-2025. We are also faced with a problem for the compensation of pathologies, as the period of latency for the manifestation of the disease in the most serious pathologies is very long. Undoubtedly, as I said, a change in reality: in a very short period of time we have gone from facing a reality of miracle product used massively to one of extremely toxic product, with thousands of people sick or in a state of latency. A change in reality: a drastic change in the needs of those affected, their families, the people in latent state, the whole society in the end, which needs a response from the institutions. The prohibition in the production, marketing and use, in addition to the precautions and precautions in the withdrawal of existing asbestos, as well as the monitoring and health care of those affected and the investigation of the disease, even though essential measures are necessary and need to be evaluated positively – let us bear in mind that there are still countries, such as Cuba, China, Russia, many third world countries, where asbestos is not prohibited and is still being manufactured and used – even though necessary and positive measures are not sufficient for a society that wants to be seen as solidarity and advanced. In this scenario this presentation is born in the last legislature, aiming to analyze the possible creation of a compensation fund for those affected by exposure to asbestos, the study and analysis of its suitability and the benefits of its creation. A response from this Parliament to the State's insufficient response. A response from this Parliament to this new reality where it is necessary to recognize, value and thank the contributions of the participants, the affected ones, their families, the vision of the unions, the companies, the health professionals, the researchers, the legal professionals, the Basque administration in the important contributions from Osalan. All this, combined with continued and coordinated work in the parliamentary groups throughout these two legislatures, which in a pioneering way in the State have decided to address one of the most serious issues faced by thousands of workers, workers' families and citizens, considering the creation of this compensation fund necessary to compensate those affected.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u63	Finish it, please, Mr. Aardzia.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u64	Yeah. From our parliamentary group, we consider this issue to be a matter of justice for the victims. That is why we strongly support what this opinion contains: to propose to the Congress of Deputies the creation of this fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u65	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Number of points in theme list: "Motion, introduced by the members of the Dava Blanco de Angulo EH Collector, about the treatment of C hepatitis against disease. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Blanco, representing the EH team, has her word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u66	Thank you, ma'am. Good afternoon again. It's not time to get involved in the details of the illness today. Like someone else would say, or think, that we were too heavy or because we've been repeated. We have come to this meeting with only one purpose: To improve the state of patients caused by C hepatatitis. And that's why we've introduced this motion, where we'll be able to make our commitment to this collective. Yes, by our motion, and by the correctes introduced in this legislature, the greater part of the representatives of the people are not admitted to the conduct of the Medical Department in this matter. And, as we showed in the discussion of the interpelration, there is a remarkable difference between the patients who have the Hepatitis and the statements of the Medical Department, which we have all to cultivate. We have repeated our concerns to the Department of Health, our contradictions, and we are convinced that the answers we have received are not sufficient. Now, let's see if we can get a solution or a solution. The problem we're facing is not a ballad. We are talking about an infection that chronicles in 70% of patients and produces cirrhosis in 20% of those patients. Hepatitis C is the leading cause of cirrhosis, liver carcinoma, and therefore liver transplantation. But the truth is that currently there are treatments so effective as to cure this infection, that they definitely inhibit viral replication, and they do, moreover, after the administration of the treatments for a short period of time. Now you will understand the hope and illusion which has arisen between the sick. Therefore, we have no doubt that we must answer to them with full clearness from the institutions, for the benefit of the patients. The unfortunate cause of the 'Chamatitis' has hitherto lived in despair, because they know that in many cases the treatments were not the results expected, or the only chance they had in others was to guard themselves terribly so as not to lose their lives or to postpone the transfer. And behind this despair came illusion, illusion for the appearance of new medicine. Of course, anyone would have that reaction in the same situation. Let us imagine: After we get treatment in a few months, at 50 percent of the cases, the virus can disappear, without any secondary influence on it. But reality has led these patients to another stage: from despair to illusion and from illusion to anguish or rage. We believe that this despair and anguish that many sick and sick with hepatitis C suffer, and that it is certain that you too are aware, resolved or relieved with information. But lack of information or, worse, confusion despairs. That is why our motion, the proposal that EH Bildu has brought to this House, has resulted in a compromise amendment that we believe is good and that will help both to reassure these sick and sick and to clarify certain aspects that we believe to be fundamental. It is better to introduce a chronomogram to the sick than to answer the impersonal letter and, in general, to deny the treatment. It's better to know the exact line of money to finance new treatments than the lack of precision. It is better to be in touch with the sick caused by the C hepatitis, and the platforms which represent them, or the department of health, than to have their proposals and concerns. Let us now see why we are so tiresome. We cannot look the other way, while we hear it from the sick: "Some writers, according to their medical judgment, require new medicines, but these direct anti-virist influences against the hepatitis do not reach them." For instance. This example has been stated three times in public, and no one has hitherto denied it. All this and much more is what we intend to clarify, because our only goal – we have repeated it to the point of satiety – is to improve the situation and quality of life of these sick and sick people. We want it to be clear and written that the Basque Government guarantees treatment with new antivirals to all hepatitis C patients according to the approved clinical criteria, regardless of the economic cost involved. That is the first point in our compromise amendment. Because it seems that there are people who have a degree of progression of the disease and that, according to the strategy, they should receive these treatments and are not receiving them. And if it's not for an economic reason, we don't think why else it can be. We consider it a priority for the Government, just to start the next session, to present in this Parliament a detailed timetable explaining clearly how treatment will be prioritized among patients with hepatitis C disease. And that is what we requested in the second point of our agreement. It's not all that's done with the best intentions, and in this case a fund of funding is essential. That's why we're asking him to explain to you by a specific report the money line he's planning to fund these new treatments before the budgets are 2016. And this is the third point that appears in the agreement we signed. And lastly, the fourth point of our middle course is reasonable, in our opinion, for empathy. We agree with the associations that endure the disease and the sick. At this point, too, we attach importance to the presence of this collective assembly in several committees, in regard to its own opinions and complaints, as has been said before. For us, there's nothing to add. We've been talking about this subject for a long time in the last month. We're going to go through words today. And that's all. The deal's on the table. We think we're in the face of a perfectly acceptable agreement, fair and necessary. That's why we're asking for protection from all the rest of this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u68	Ma'am, members of the legislature, chief physician. Socialists participate in this debate to point out what we believe is important for citizens in general and for the group of hepatitis C patients in particular. The group of the sick, all the sick, also those of hepatitis C, want to be treated with curative drugs, preventing their disease from progressing, their liver, in the case of the patients of hepatitis C, finally fail, that leads to cancer, that needs a transplant or that the patient dies from the final and total failure of his liver. And how does the Department of Health respond to you, responsible for giving each patient according to his or her need? In our view, the adviser responds unsoundly and insufficiently. He says that it cannot or should not treat everyone, that he will take care of those who have the liver most affected, but will not end with them before January 2016, and that the degrees of minor affectation (the F3, F2 and F1) can already wait to see that their process is aggravated so that they can be treated. And in this Parliament we have learned that hepatitis C patients have had to organize themselves as a platform representing the collective in order to participate and know the government's approaches with them. However, as a result of both the paralysis of the dialogue with the collective and the paralysis in curative treatments, several claims have been made by this platform. Demonstrations that have not liked the department, because it has no attitude of self-criticism; rather, it has complacency in its acts, believes that everything does well. But in Parliament we do not agree with this view of the reality that it has (of course, the opposition groups, not the group that supports the government). All groups have met with the platform and supported them in a press conference, and through questions and inquiries we have voiced our opposition to government policy. And with the contribution to the motion, we want to express our political will, which is that the Government treats with curative drugs of recent appearance to the whole set of hepatitis C patients, prioritizing attention in time, of course, to the most serious, to avoid major evils such as the evolution towards cancer, the need for a transplant or ending in a death. But also to the rest of the patients with hepatitis C, to avoid the progress of the disease. The need to treat all patients with hepatitis C is not just the political will of the opposition groups in this Parliament. It is also the technical opinion of Mr. Joan Rodés Teixidor, president of the National Strategic Plan for the Approach to Hepatitis C in the National Health System, who already in March 2015, in an interview at the SER, manifested – and this seems to me to be clarifying and very important in addressing the offer of treatments to the hepatitis C group –: "Hepatitis C must be treated before cirrhosis appears, because if there is already cirrhosis, the only thing we do is to remove the virus, but cirrhosis remains". He also said that the role of the ministry would be to negotiate with pharmaceutical companies to get better prices. But concrete financing is the autonomous responsibility of this and the other self-governments. And doctors prescribe, but they don't fund, they can't provide funding. That is the responsibility of the department, which must give sufficient financial resources to each hospital manager to treat patients in turn, because patients with hepatitis C receive treatments through hospitals. Mr Rodés continues – whose opinion seems to me to be very technical, and I do not think that there are any technical opinions in this Parliament or in other parliaments that can be strictly differentiated from this one –: "F, that classification of hepatitis C patients, means fibrosis. F0 means there's disease, but there's no fibrosis. F1, F2, F3 and F4 mean that, in addition to disease, there is fibrosis and that from F1 to F4 there is a risk of cirrhosis, cancer and need for transplantation." Starting with F0 right now seems absurd, because there is no cirrhosis, and there are far more serious patients in whom, of course, treatment should be addressed. But let it be known that giving treatment to F4 will not cure cirrhosis; it will eliminate the virus, but it will not cure cirrhosis, and that patient may evolve to need for transplantation or cancer. And treating early, as soon as an infection is diagnosed, is also mandatory, as is done with the rest of infectious diseases and also in other non-infectious diseases (diabetes, infarctions, strokes). We do not expect processes to evolve to offer them treatment, and it is not only because of the obligation of the public authorities to the citizen, but also because of the obligation to manage public resources effectively and efficiently. And no one escapes that it is more efficient to recover a cured patient, that he can be reinstated to his work and to his full life, than to keep him sick, that he cannot work, with the vital costs, social, job losses, treatment with non-curative medicines (which also cost money), possible hospital income, transplants, cancer treatments in case of cancer. All of this involves continuing to spend money from the public treasury. All this has motivated us to participate through an amendment and a transaction with the EH Bildu group that reflects our concerns and political will to treat all patients, while denouncing the insolidary and insufficient attitude of the Department of Health. And let it be clear that there is a breach of their obligations, such as finding sufficient and necessary funding to treat this group fairly. Equity with the rest of the sick and the rest of the citizens. That is what the collective calls for, and we support it too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u70	Thank you, President. Let us see whether, among all the parliamentary groups, including the group supporting the Government, we are able to join forces for a dual objective which I believe should be shared by all the groups in this House and also shared by the Basque Government itself and by Mr Darpón himself, here present. On the one hand, all patients with hepatitis C receive the treatment they need, following the clinical criteria dictated by specialist doctors, without their cost being an impediment to receiving it. And, on the other hand, that these same patients feel perfectly cared for and well treated and informed by the Department of Health of the Basque Government. I think these are the two goals that we all set ourselves. And we would not understand that the Basque Nationalist group did not defend this very thing and, therefore, did not join that transactional that has been signed. I'm saying this because there's something that's very curious. The Basque Government has been saying that it was treating all patients perfectly, while the patients have been permanently and very strongly criticizing the lack of care and sensitivity of the Basque Government. In any case, what we want is for this to be resolved as soon as possible. And, frankly, I do not see that the Basque Government can do so; it is enough to have political will and a minimum of sensitivity. UPyD has been joining the demands of the various associations and affected by the hepatitis C virus and has participated in the mobilizations that were also registered in Madrid. We also put a series of questions in the Congress of Deputies on the issue and in the European Parliament we received those affected and made our demands. In Euskadi we shared about a month and a half ago with the Basque platforms of the affected, a press conference in which the affected said very strong things and that Mr Darpón did not like at all. They accused the directors of Osakidetza of not applying the national plan with the same rigour as in other autonomous communities and of supplying the new drugs exclusively in the most serious cases. They said they felt abused, deceived and abandoned, and even talked about genocide. They said they felt and felt mistreated, deceived and abandoned, and some responsibility would lie with the Basque Government and the Department of Health. They censored Osakidetza's decision to supply the new drugs only to the most serious patients, classified as F4, until January 2016, while other autonomous communities are also giving to F2 and F3. "Not only are we not the first or the best, as they say," they said, "but we are the last of the class. If you have the F4 recorded in your file, you pass; the rest to wait or emigrate to Burgos or La Rioja," they said. "They treat us, at best, as naive people, and at worst, they come to accuse us of selfish people that we want to endanger the health system." "The patients go to the doctor and he tells them that they would need to be treated immediately, but that he is not authorized to prescribe the treatment." "In other autonomous communities the plan is being implemented. We don't want to be more than the others, but neither do we want to be less." All these things and some others said those affected in that press conference that so little liked the Basque Government. For his part, Mr Darpón on the same day defended the strategy of providing patients with hepatitis C with the latest-generation drugs on a step-by-step basis, depending on their severity. He also assured that all affected patients will be treated progressively. The debate was subsequently moved to the parliamentary sphere and a number of groups approached the adviser on the issue. Everyone asked and asked the counselor for the same thing, divided into two: that patients with hepatitis C be treated according to clinical criteria and that the cost of treatment is not an impediment to this. I would like to hear the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party agree with these shared objectives. Mr Darpón defended the way his department acted, as it could not be otherwise, but insisted too often on the sustainability of the public health system, giving a sense and image of being with one eye in medical treatment and with another in the budget. In other words, it seemed that the budget conditioned the medical treatment provided. Therefore, Mr Darpón did not only clarify much in those debates, but also raised many doubts. At this point, we need clarity and commitment. This is what we basically ask of the Department of Health and the advisor, clarity and commitments. Commitment by the Basque Government that it will take care of each of the Basque sick as they deserve and that it will spare no budgetary resources for this. And, obviously, a funding program, as claimed by Bizkaia's hepatitis C platform yesterday. Because, moreover, however expensive the treatment is, it will always be cheaper than the treatment of the chronic disease itself and because, in any case, patients should be cared for as they deserve, without sparing any means for it, and making the best medicines available to them. In any case, we hope that the matter will be resolved as soon as possible and that Osakidetza and the Basque Government and Mr Darpón will be up to date. We trust that this may be so. There are times when certain political representatives remain in their own bubble and prefer to remain in their absolute solitude before listening to the reasonable approaches of the different groups. And Mr. Darpón, besides, is giving me the reason, wants to stay in his own bubble. Congratulations, Mr. Darpón for saying yes, that you want to stay in your own bubble. Otherwise, I don't know what you're saying. I believe that it would be a good step for us all to vote in favour of this compromise today and for the Basque Government to comply with its demands. It seems to me that it is quite reasonable what appears in that transactional. The logic is that new antivirals are also coming to the mildest patients, so that they do not get worse. Although it is expensive in principle, it will actually be of great benefit to the sick and will also be a medium- and long-term saving for health care, as hundreds of consultations will be avoided, thousands of diagnostic tests, dozens of income, treatments of other kinds, transplants, and Social Security will also be avoided thousands of days of job losses. I therefore believe that it is reasonable to defend and not just vote for what is proposed in that compromise. To urge the Government, therefore, to ensure treatment with new antivirals for all hepatitis C patients, following the approved clinical criteria and without repairing the economic cost involved. Establish and submit to the House a detailed schedule for setting treatment priorities for all hepatitis C patients and submit a detailed budget report for the coverage of new hepatitis C treatments. Finally, we would like to express our solidarity with all people affected by hepatitis C, to join the demands of the associations representing them and to urge the Government to encourage their participation, so that they can be perfectly attended to and informed and thus not continue to feel, as has been felt so far, abandoned by this Government. I believe that this very complete compromise also includes everything that we have been proposing since UPyD with our amendment. We hope that all the groups in this House will vote in favour, without exception. Also the vote in favour of the Basque Nationalist group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u71	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning. We have discussed this subject several times in this legislature. Even a few weeks ago, we had the appearance of the platform of the "C" of the Hepatitis, and we all listened to their witnesses and petitions. We need to say that the Popular is concerned with this subject, and we don't understand the position of this government in this matter. As I said here, we don't approve of the attitude or behavior of the Basque Munch. We think there are contradictions. And further, if we compare the chief divisions here, in this parliament, the testimony of their answers and of their platforms, we may say that there are contradictions and incommensurances, which the chief physician said and the platforms said are contrary to each other. On the other hand, this government does not give us the information it requires, the information required, and we cannot tell, for instance, how sick they are with the Cipatis in Euscad. And this government doesn't determine where the problems are, because in that answer the chief physician said this was not a problem, but in the end it looks as if the money didn't come or the treatment didn't come. We therefore see a need for a ruling today in this House on the new treatments for hepatitis C. We've come to an agreement to dictate duties to the government, to see if this subject is finally solved. Eta ez dugu ulertzen zer geratetzen den. We don't understand what's going on. We can say that the Basque Government is neglecting its responsibilities, that it is not giving new treatments to patients with hepatitis C. Treatment is being denied even to patients classified as more serious (F4), who are being told, "Come back tomorrow." We are sick, too, to those who are in principle prescribed treatment according to specialists, obviously according to clinical criteria and according to a diagnosis, but these then do not have permission to give these new treatments. This, counselor, is what's going on and you should know it, or, rather, I think you know it. These clinical criteria are therefore not being followed in prescribing new treatments. We have even known that, following certain claims, even specific pressures, new treatments have been prescribed to certain people, which is very worrying, very striking, because it indicates that there may even be a certain margin of discretion when it comes to giving these treatments. This is what we were placed in the appearance by the affected and the representatives of the platform. We, the People's Group, ask that treatment be given to all those who need it and prescribed according to medical criteria, according to clinical criteria. We know and are aware that some of the most serious patients (F4) are not being given, as I told the counselor in my question, and that they are being told "Come back tomorrow", and the rest, that they can according to that prescription receive these treatments, those new antivirals, which would also allow their disease not to get worse, as has also been said in this rostrum... In this regard, we believe, and we are concerned, that the adviser and the department are not fulfilling their own commitments, that they are not following the criteria of the Strategic Plan for the Approach to Hepatitis C, those criteria that were approved in an interterritorial council unanimously, where all the autonomous communities were. The Autonomous Community of the Basque Country said yes, and it seems that where it said yes it is then saying no. That is why we ask you again, Mr. Counsellor (we have already asked you in the question that we put to you), why the department you run, this Basque Government, is not fulfilling those commitments that you have made in relation to this strategy, to carry it out, to implement it here. There is a specific plan, there have been different plans, different strategies also in the Basque Autonomous Community (the last one, of 11 May), but it seems that you are also not implementing your own forecasts. On the other hand, we have said that the Basque Government is concealing information in relation to hepatitis C cases, and in relation not only to the cases or patients with hepatitis C that exist in our Autonomous Community, but also to the economic resources that would be needed to care for all patients who would require these treatments. Moreover, we are even given ambiguous information, not precise information, because we are told that from June 2014 to May 2015 754 patients have been treated, at a cost of 20 million. But we are not told, to repeated questions that we have asked this group and other representatives in this House, how many have been dealt with since May until now, why aspects of the concrete strategy approved by the Basque Government are not being met, how much money is needed exactly to cover the treatments, because, on the other hand, the adviser in his repeated appearances is saying that it is not an economic problem. If it is not an economic problem, Mr President-in-Office, why is the budget heading not extended? If it's not an economic problem, where is the problem? Because we do not understand anyone in this House, and those affected undoubtedly, where the problem may be. I believe that in the end there is a lack of political will to address and resolve the problem of hepatitis C patients in Euskadi. But, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a chronic, progressive disease. Therefore, the sooner these people receive treatment, the better, and the sooner they can be cured and the sooner they can also have a better quality of life. And, on the other hand, we also find it very striking that every time this issue has been debated in this House, or every time the councillor has answered the questions that we have asked the various opposition groups, he has thrown balls out; here everyone has the blame except the councillor (that if the ministry...). But if you gave the place to a strategy – approved unanimously – to the strategy for the approach of hepatitis C, in the interterritorial council! And what is happening is that patients in Euskadi are being discriminated against and harmed in relation to patients in other autonomous communities, who are actually carrying out this strategy. Therefore, no excuses are worth, Counselor. There are no excuses like that the sick have been prioritized here because they can't all be cared for. It gives me the feeling that with this prioritization or care step by step the patients are looking for an escape route and an excuse not to give attention to the patients who according to the clinical criteria can specify it. That is why we have tabled an amendment to this motion, although we agreed on many of the points in it. We believe it is important to remind this Government that it has to ensure new treatments for all hepatitis C patients according to clinical criteria and according to the criteria that have been set out in the Strategic Plan for the Approach to Hepatitis C of the National Health System approved by the Interterritorial Council. We also believe that it is important, so that all doubts regarding the economic issue and the budget that we would need to address and cover with new treatments for hepatitis C patients, that a report be submitted on this particular issue. We therefore believe that the compromise that has been reached and in which specific duties are placed on the Basque Government is timely. And let us hope that once and for all this Councillor, this Government, will already assume his responsibility and give the response that these patients require in terms of care, to new treatments. And that's why we vote for the running corrections. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u73	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u74	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning again, everybody. First of all, from our parliamentary group we want to convey our deepest solidarity with all hepatitis C patients and their families. In the history of humanity there have been many diseases that have been defeated by people on the basis of tesion and advances in science. They are achievements in the struggle for the right to health that have marked pages of history. And on these last dates, and although it may seem the opposite when listening to the interventions that have preceded me, we are faced with good news regarding hepatitis C. Scientists in this field, hepatologists and other researchers, tell us that this very serious disease has a new treatment that is substantially more effective. We are announced at the last congresses of the specialty that this virus infection, with a clear fixation by the liver and with a very variable evolution and that until now it had been treated with drugs that clashed with the high mutability of the virus and with uncomfortable, long and full treatments of side effects, has reached a point of inflection. New treatments will make it possible to eradicate the disease within about 15 years, to eradicate a disease in the near future. That's really good news. And today we are debating in this House a subsequent motion for an inquiry on this issue. A couple of weeks ago we had discussed a non-legislative proposal on this same issue, which at the last hour withdrew the proposing group, the same one that today leads the motion. In principle, and if I focus on a serene analysis of the original initiative – I am referring to that non-law proposal – and of the amendments tabled by the different parliamentary groups, I would conclude that there was a serious debate: definition of protocols, therapeutic strategies, participation of professionals, entities and representatives of patients, epidemiological, care and preventive aspects, complete approach to the disease. In principle, the best ingredients for progress: good news and a serious and productive debate. However, the three of you (Mrs. Garrido, Mrs. Blanco and Mrs. Roncal) have turned this debate into a sanatorium, which would be funny if it were not because it is tragic. It is tragic how they use the pain and suffering of hepatitis C patients and their families for spurious and partisan purposes. Neither this parliamentary group nor the Basque Government is going to manipulate people, let alone the sick. You have dramatized this debate, with a staging that already lasts too many acts. You, with your presence at the press conference on Thursday, May 15, in the middle of the election campaign, endorsed very serious accusations that you will someday be forced to explain. You continued your tragic sanitation on Friday, May 29, at the checkpoint, asking the counselor empty questions. Yeah, empty. Questions that competed among themselves in lack of rigour and overperformance. Absolute lack of rigour. I have dissected each of your questions into detail: not a single fact, absolute lack of rigor. Then came the chapter of the withdrawal of the non-law proposal; later, the appearance of a platform of affected persons; after it, the interpellation of 12 June, and finally, this motion resulting from it. And today I wonder: why does good news as a starting point and a serious initiative become such an overworked sanity? The answer is clear: because of their unorthodox appetite for political use, without the slightest sensitivity, without any limit (neither people, nor people who suffer, nor sick people who suffer). In view of his actions, we have been able to observe in the last few days the action of the department, and in particular, in the last two full powers of control, the responses of the adviser. I don't know how you talk about insolidity and insufficient answers. Really, what I have seen is hope, sensitivity, rigour and commitment. Hope. Good news: a serious disease, hepatitis C, has a new and more effective treatment that will benefit sick people. Sensitivity. A message of solidarity and tranquillity aimed at all people with hepatitis C, removing the debate from political use, saying loud and clear, as the counselor tells us, that from the Department of Health and from Osakidetza it will continue to address this disease as a health problem. Rigor. Rigor in the facts, not improvisation. Rigor in the times: in August 2014, the Ministry of Health approved the use of a new antiviral, simeprevir; in September, Osakidetza incorporated patient care; in November, the ministry authorized sofosbuvir, which was started to be used in Osakidetza in December; in April 2015, two new medicines, composed of drug associations, were approved for use in the State. On May 11, Osakidetza professionals had these medicines at their disposal for use in their patients. This gives us a clear idea of the speed and normality with which these drugs are being integrated in Osakidetza; in an orderly and efficient way, and always putting forward medical criteria. Rigor. Treated patients. In Euskadi people are being treated step by step; yes, step by step, Mrs Roncal. Yes, prioritizing, as Dr. García Bengoechea, eminent hepatologist, reminds us. And I quote: "We have always prioritized, because evolution is very variable. 20 years ago we had to do a biopsy, but today we have an apparatus (fibroscan) that gives us a very good approximation of the degree of fibrosis." Someday there will be something better, we told the patients, and fortunately that day has arrived. But we must continue to prioritise, because trying to treat several thousand patients in Euskadi in a few months' time is not only an economic problem; it is that the care services are not trained, there are not so many hepatologists to control that. We can also talk about the prioritization approach contained in the strategic plan. You quoted Dr. Rodés. In strategic line 2 of the plan, page 58: "As has already been said, the priority strategy aims to be the instrument for the orderly access of patients to new hepatitis C treatments" – and look at the arrows of the schedule as well, very illustrative. Come on, what Osakidetza is doing. More than 700 people of hepatitis C have already been treated in Euskadi with new antiviral drugs, far above the data provided by any other autonomous community and far above what is contained in the strategy. All you have to do is go to your annex 4, page 88 et seq., and read the text with a calculator next door, nothing more than that. Get the bills out. Far above, Mrs Garrido; far above the strategic plan. Get the bills out. Every day you maintain this sanctity, Osakidetza, your professionals, advance in the care of these patients. Rigor, rigor in spending. Investment in health, paying for treatments provided through the budget of the Basque Government (20 million euros), ensuring the sustainability of the public health system, something that seems to have ceased to be normal in other autonomous communities. Review the financial formulas in Annex 4, revise them (a strategic plan without economic memory). Commitment. Membership has a commitment to treat all the sick and it will be. That is why we maintain from this parliamentary group the same position that we maintained in the no initial law proposal with our amendment, which is continuity of our position. The facts and facts are there and they are proof, they are the clearest endorsement of what this Basque Government is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u75	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u76	Thanks again. Firstly, thank you for the Socialist Group's willingness to sign this compromise amendment with EH Bildu, and also for the support of both UPyD and the People's Party. I really don't know what Mr. Aiartza came to today. What have you come to? To question my work as a parliamentarian? Is that what you're here for? Do you think you're licensed to do that? He's taken back the issue of GNP. Look, that argument was already used by the counselor two weeks ago. Innovate a bit, we've heard it. That GNP was registered in January. The situation has changed, we have withdrawn it and we have put an inquiry and a motion. We're in our right, I think. But you have spoken of anything but the content of the motion. What do you think? I would like to know what you think point by point of the compromise that we have signed. He hasn't been positioned. Or are you going to vote against ensuring that hepatitis C is treated according to approved clinical criteria? Don't you agree? Do you also not agree that a timetable should be presented in this House setting the priorities for treatment according to the degree of disease progression? Do you not agree that the detailed budget is presented in this House before the presentation of the 2016 budget? What it does seem is that it sympathizes with patients with hepatitis C. I'm glad, we're glad you're in solidarity. But it is not worth solidarity, it is not worth, because the government, you, the group that supports the government, are solidarity, but in the meantime Osakidetza this platform that has been locked up in Txagorritxu has thrown it on the street. Not only that, he's also thrown into the street the mobile unit of Radio Vitoria that was trying to tell. So, less solidarity and a little bit more of giving up words and moving on to the facts. And you question everything you want. And we will sell to this House whenever we want and consider it necessary. We're in our right. We'll ask the counselor when we think it's necessary. And I don't think you or anyone has a license to question it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u78	Thank you, mahaiburu anderea. Mr Aiartza, what does solidarity mean, a speech of solidarity with the patient group? What does solidarity translate into? If solidarity is a discourse versus pharmacological treatment, then listen, the sick don't want solidarity. They want medical treatment, they want pharmacological treatment and they want curative treatment. They do not want a treatment that keeps them sick, they do not want a treatment that allows them to progress, attacking the liver more and more, until they reach a terminal situation, cirrhosis or cancer. Do you understand? What they want is, like the rest of the patients of any other disease, to be treated at the time they are diagnosed. You tell me, "You come here without data." Excuse me, this MP asked the counselor about the hepatitis C patient data. Do you know what the answer was? "I don't know, I don't know," the counselor replied. So if this Parliament lacks data, it is because of the lack of transparency of the department. And from here I make a criticism of him. It takes a hard face, yes, sir, to answer "I don't know" when it was enough to call each hospital – there aren't so many in Euskadi – and ask each person in charge of the Pathology or Digestive Service, section Hepatology, to tell him the number of patients he had in treatment. It wasn't that hard, a phone call was made. And you replied that you didn't have data on patients with hepatitis C in Euskadi, and that's in the Parliament Chamber, and it's on the website. As I say, the counselor's speech is not bad. What's wrong is what he does, which is that he doesn't do anything to patients. And you: "All the steps that have been taken", "750 patients in a year". If I don't say they haven't worked and they haven't taken steps! The theme is: How many patients do the decisions in 2015 affect? How much has been spent in 2015? 10 million? You know that's very rare. I say again that your obligation is to seek funding. If you do not have enough budget, ask for an increase, that this Parliament will give it to you. I've already told you that some other time. And if he doesn't finally listen to non-law proposals, we'll have to come up with a law proposal so he'll have to do it out of obligation. Its obligation is to treat all patients and that is the political will of the parliamentary groups, except that of the PNV, which apparently does not want us to know what the work schedule the department has planned with patients of hepatitis C, nor does it want us to know what budget we will have for the year 2016. That is what this motion is saying as a result of interpellation and the agreed compromise. Tell me what you see in that, in solidarity with patients with hepatitis C, in wanting to know the data and in wanting to know the work plan of this government. Tell us what glues this transaction amendment has so that the PNV can't approve it. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Mr. Maneiro must not speak. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u80	Mr Aiartza and Mr Councillor, in the end what you come to say in this rostrum every time you come out to answer the questions we ask you or debate on this issue is the same. I understand that the speech you brought us here today is in line with what you had to say here and according to the counselor himself, but what we do not understand is what is happening. And we do not understand what is happening because we see an absolute lack of response from the Basque Government to all the unknowns in relation to the treatment of hepatitis C patients with these new medicines and because as political representatives we want answers. And, above all, because we want associations, the sick, who want to be cured, who do not want their disease to get worse, to have answers, and to have no answers. Because the sick do not understand that in other autonomous communities, that in Logroño, that in Madrid, also in a socialist autonomous community, in Andalusia, the treatments are being prescribed and here they are not being treated. Because the sick don't understand that this government... Yes, Mr. Counselor, that's right. I told him the other day the case of sick people who are calling us, those who are absolutely priority, qualified as F4, and those who are being told, "Come back tomorrow." The sick do not understand, as I said, that in Logroño, in Madrid, in Seville they are being given the treatments that are being denied here. And that has a name, that's discriminating against the sick in the Basque Country, because this department has no desire to do things the way it should. And on top of that, he's missing the commitments he's made. I too will say to you: no argument to vote against what we are putting forward today in this House and the agreement reached. Everything, balloons out; everything, excuses. Because it seems to me very good that priority is given to the sick, but prioritization at all can serve as an excuse not to give attention to those sick to whom specialists are prescribing treatments. And doctors and specialists are telling us that in many cases they can't give them; even if they need them and even if it's according to the diagnosis and prescription given, they can't give them because they don't have authorization. You'll tell me what that is. Of course, it is not to follow the clinical criteria marked by the strategy of the national health system addressed for hepatitis C, approved by the new Minister of Health, Mr Alfonso Alonso, to which you adhered and which you are not fulfilling. And, indeed, we have no data, Counselor. You'll know why you don't want to give the data. Because, no doubt, it will remain in evidence. We have no data on how many affected hepatitis C are in Euskadi; we have no data, counselor. We have another way of knowing that data, and you know very well that we have another way of knowing that data, but what you have to do is be transparent, assume your responsibility and give us the data that we are asking you from the opposition to know how this situation is. So, less dizzying the loser, less throwing balls out, and be resolute now once and for all. Recognize where the problem is or tell us what is going on, because Mr Aiartza has already told us here that it is not just an economic problem (i.e. that it is partly an economic problem). Tell us why, if it's an expandable game, they don't expand it. Tell us, if you've spent 10 million this year, and it looks like 20 in total since 2014... Looks like there's no money. Tell us if there's really no money. Mr Aiartza here has acknowledged that there is not only an economic problem, but also an organisational one. Tell us clearly where the problems are, so that, if you are unable to provide the solution, let us bring other parties the solution and put it on the table.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u81	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Finally, the Eucariats represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u82	Mrs. Garrido, for starters at the end, listen to me a little bit. I didn't say, I quoted Dr. García Bengoechea. I quoted him, with the quotes. He tells us about the incognitas, the incognitas you see. Well, I'll tell you what I see. All his argument, all this theatricalization of his has been based on an idea. I am not speaking today; today too, but at other times, in all these acts it has been based on an idea, which we could sum it up in the over-active question addressed to the Councillor at the May 29th plenary session. And I'm going to quote you, with quotes. I'm not saying it, you were saying it: "What assessment do you make of other autonomous communities going ahead of Euskadi in dispensing new treatments against hepatitis C?". To what the counselor answers, "Mrs. Garrido, you've made a piece of paper." I cannot agree more with the counselor, but I would add a small detail: he has made a secondary piece of paper. Euskadi is ahead of the rest of the autonomous communities in percentage and total data, and far ahead of what is set out in the strategic plan. I think it is very good that I speak in your amendment to the criteria of the strategic plan. Maybe it would be interesting for me to read it to you. You also said, in an angry tone, that day: "And, look, don't tell me about Mrs. Mato, tell me about what the new Minister of Health has done." Let's see, how can we not talk to you about Mrs Mato, if you have occupied the health portfolio for 90% of the legislature and are primarily responsible, for your inability, for this whole mess and for someone else? But, well, let's talk about what your new minister has done. He's done nothing. Kick to go ahead and send the problem forward. Of this I am sure we will speak again and deny your minister, as that Friday denied your ex-minister. Mrs. Roncal, solidarity, yes. I'm supportive, yes, not just in word. I'm supportive. But, on the other hand, rigour, data, that you don't bring any. It doesn't bring any. He doesn't have them. She doesn't bring anything into her empty questions. He seems to be lying about his long political experience and his medical training. You in that full of control, in another question, said, and I quote you: "In a step-by-step manner. But what's that? What's that?". Well, it seems that you have already understood that, because after the Councillor's answers and many more contributions, including political representatives from those communities where you govern, it has already become clear to you and seems to be introducing it in your amendment. Mrs. White. Well, here the only one who's given data has been me so far, which I've seen. I spoke earlier of rigor, that in Osakidetza there is no room for improvisation, of absolute programming. It gives me the feeling that you have a strategy. Faced with this rigour and this lack of improvisation, this programming, you want us to see an action-reaction scheme: Bildu action and the Department of Health reaction after your action. That no, Mrs Blanco, that no; that do not go on there, that no one believes it, that the citizenry already knows the planned action of Osakidetza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u83	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote... You want to vote for it? Is there a problem? Don't you? Okay. We're going to vote for EH Collect and the Esquile Sociaists in the middle of the media that signed up by the teams. Wait. Excuse me, wait a minute. [[Berber]] We're going to vote for EH Collect and the Esquile Sociaists in the middle of the media signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 71; the votes given, 72; the supporters 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u84	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. The seventh point on the theme list: "Euscial Socialists made the same suggestion as the legislatures, "The historical contexts of terrorism and social attention to victims. About the public opening of Foronda Report in '68-2010'. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Ares has the word to present and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative presented by the Socialist Group was intended solely to promote and ensure the maximum dissemination of the so-called Foronda report. A report by the Institute of Social History of the University of the Basque Country on the historical contexts of terrorism in Euskadi, a report you know. Today, the Government has committed itself with the Socialist Group to launch what we called for in our initiative, which was to make this report known. It will do so through the acquisition of copies of the Foronda report that has just been published by the editorial Los Libros de la Catarata, and also through other media and media, so that this Foronda report can be disseminated in the educational system, libraries, documentation centres, victim associations or the media. Therefore, and after speaking to the amending groups of our initiative and understanding that the objectives we were pursuing are being met and guaranteed, I announce that I withdraw the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u86	Thank you, Mr. Ares. Do you think any of the teams would like to take the word? ... The proposal remains retired. The eighth point in the subject list: "Euscal Popular, and Mistto-as the law team made-UPyD propose-a special matter of forming a special committee of irregularities and political responsibility for the advantages which several elements of the Basque University and prisoners have been historically given to the prisoners of the United States. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Misto-UPyD. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u87	Thank you very much, Madam President, for your kindness. I present the initiative, this non-legislative proposal, in the hands of the People's Group, to call in this Parliament for the creation of a special commission of inquiry on the historical treatment of ETA prisoners by the UPV – or, rather, by clarifying it, by certain elements of the UPV – the irregularities and illegalities that have arisen and the responsibilities, obviously political, that may arise from these facts. In April, the Collective of Victims of Terrorism, which is in recent times carrying out an absolutely unusual and welcome work, filed a complaint with the Supreme Court against five recently released ETA activists, who in their time obtained prison benefits for the conduct of alleged studies at the UPV. The complaint claims that these ages would have obtained their titles irregularly or fraudulently, and therefore alleged documentary falsity is alleged. And the truth is that it provides forceful data, and in the coming weeks and months absolutely forceful data will continue to be provided, which, in our view, would definitely demonstrate that there was a plot within the UPV that had as its fundamental objective the benefit of ETA prisoners. Based on the available data, one of these reported ages would have conducted the university access exam 10 years after starting their university studies. Two others would have completed their studies without a mandatory examination of access to higher education. Another would have studied a career without having passed the access exam for over 25 years of age. And in the latter case, within that first complaint, his file would appear with false DNI and a date of access for more than 25 years old also falsified. And apparently there would be dozens of cases like these. Covite's claim calls for the imposition of appropriate sentences for the crime of documentary falsity, in addition to the cancellation of all diplomas obtained or university studies allegedly conducted in a fraudulent manner. Covite extended the initial complaint yesterday, in this case before the National Court and in this case against another six ages. The data are evident and show the existence of a plot maintained over time for long years within the UPV. There are cases such as those I mentioned earlier, and in this new complaint there are new cases, such as the case of Inés del Río, which started journalism at the UPV in 1989 with false DNI. He did not perform the selectivity test or access test for more than 25 years of age, which is an essential requirement. In addition, despite being in prison, students taking face-to-face classes were enrolled in groups reserved for them. Or the case of Ignacio Erro Zuazu, who registered with the also false DNI, and the date of birth that appears in his registry is also false. And he enrolled in group 26, whose schedule was afternoon and face-to-face. Or the case of Troitiño, who started a Magisterium in 1988 and enrolled with DNI number 33333333. And according to his file, he performed the access test for over 25 years of age on January 1, 2011, Sunday, and 20 years after starting his university studies. Or the Txikierdi case. The number of DNIs in all documents in your file is 9999555, which is also false. Or the case of Elias Fernández. He began his Magisterium by registering with DNI 3333334. There is also no proof of access. Nor in the case of Immaculate Noble, who enrolled in the Magisterium in the form of face-to-face class. There are countless examples, concrete data that show that this issue needs to be thoroughly investigated politically, and therefore by this Member. There are many concrete data, which we know and which will be known in the coming weeks, that show what I said before: the existence of a plot, of a strategy designed by the abertzale left itself, supposedly to favor those prisoners of ETA from within the UPV so that over the years they could not only benefit from prison benefits fraudulently, but also use titles that really do not correspond to them. Beyond what is determined by the justice around these allegations by Covite, in view of the preferential treatment received by ETA prisoners by certain elements of the UPV, it is in our view important to set up a special commission of inquiry in this House to investigate and bring to light such treatment, to clear the corresponding responsibilities and, ultimately, to know the truth. After decades of terrorist pressure, assassinations, attacks and threats, this may be a good time to take the necessary steps that will lead to the clarification of events that have also occurred in the university sphere and, through the political research that we are able to carry out, to clarify this story. In recent times we are talking about the story, the need to build the story, the need to tell everything that has happened in Euskadi in recent decades. Obviously, we think that this too should come to light. It must be investigated to know the responsibilities of all kinds that might be involved in this tremendous story. Let us not forget that, as a result of the preferential treatment of ETA prisoners and fraudulently obtained titles, many of them would have obtained prison benefits, which would have resulted in them being released – and recently, by the way – and others could have been released in the future. Let us not forget to obtain courses and university degrees fraudulently. Let us not forget that, in view of the most serious facts before which we may find ourselves, the citizens need, we need, to know the truth of the events that have taken place, and the public representatives, to determine all the political responsibilities that correspond. This initiative does not attack the UPV. It is just the opposite: it seeks to review history, to know the truth and to do justice, to know what happened. Plot organized, therefore, not by the UPV, but by elements within the UPV. A strategy perfectly designed to favour ETA prisoners, which lasted for years and resulted in fraudulent obtaining of certain titles and access to prison benefits. This is demonstrated by statements by different teachers, some of whom have shown their willingness to appear in this Parliament, and by police reports. We cannot and do not want to admit that those who participated in this plot live to the body of king or simply remain in their jobs, while dozens of university professors who lived threatened or had to be exiled live today without being recognized as deserving and still deserving. This is the proposal that we have put forward, which I have put forward with the help of the Group of the European People's Party, to whom I thank for your signature and for your cooperation in jointly defending this just and necessary initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u88	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u89	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, as has already been said by the representative of UPyD, in April all the media in the Basque Country, as well as national media, echoed facts reported by the Collective of Victims of Terrorism in the Basque Country (Covite), which provoked and continue to cause concern, as well as scandal, since it was an alleged crime. Of course, in our opinion, they involve in any case irregular actions affecting the UPV – which, therefore, question their own credit – and which apparently were intended to benefit elderly prisoners, so yesterday in parliamentary committee we had the opportunity to explain it directly to the rector of the university. The above-mentioned complaint refers to a specific group of terrorists. I won't repeat it. Names and surnames are given, reference is made to their personal academic records, which show that they did not carry out the mandatory or selective tests, nor the tests of access to the university, which did them many years later, without any kind of control, and – the cases have already been reported – everything points to that they carried out the university studies at the UPV without having any right to do so. It is therefore essential to know what happened during all those years at the UPV so that this could be so. All the cases that have been reported to us in the previous intervention fill us with amazement. And, of course, this is not the first time this has called into question the control system, which for many years failed, around the studies of senior prisoners in the UPV. All these cases affect ETA terrorist prisoners, not others. It appeared that they were encouraged to pursue their studies, to obtain diplomas, because with them they obtained prison benefits, the redemption of sentences, which have also been possible thanks to these degrees, and to contribute them in the cases that in many cases have allowed their release. Yesterday we asked the Rector of the UPV, Mr Goirizelaia, how it is possible to register with the UPV in this case terrorists without recording and checking the mandatory access tests, how it is possible that this happened in so many cases. Because there may be an error, a waste, a failure of control at a given time, but how is it possible that in so many cases, affecting so many people, prisoners can be enrolled in university without guarantees, without any kind of control, without proof of access, no selectivity, or proof of over 25 years of age, without checking the minimum data (DNI...)? How is it possible that these things happen, when all this is mandatory to carry out studies at the UPV? What's going on? No one was looking at the file? No one was looking at the papers? No one was wondering? If it has already been reported that it happens in some cases, why not look at the rest? Who's responsible for all this? Because nobody here is accusing the UPV, but everything points to what elements, professors of the UPV, staff from within the UPV looked for elsewhere. Here the controls failed, someone has to take responsibility for all of this. It does not undermine the credibility of the complainant, but rather the irregular conduct of proceedings that completely undermine the entire system of guarantees of the public university itself. Regardless or beyond what the Office of the Prosecutor says and what determines justice – yesterday we also asked the Rector – we believe that an explanation, an analysis is needed. That is why we believe that it is necessary to open a process of analysis on what has happened in the UPV during all these years. Open a way of research that, at least from the political sphere, gives us keys, credible keys, reasonable and that can explain exactly what happened, limit the responsibilities of all that. Recently we have also known, and we presented it yesterday to the Rector as a new concern, that the UPV has just approved a plan to offer diplomas to prisoners who serve their sentences outside Spanish territory: 27 degrees, one graduate, two masters. All disregarding the negative reports of powers, which do not consider it possible to respond with sufficient guarantees to such studies at a distance; they do not, according to those responsible for the powers, have minimum control elements that enable them to give credibility to such guarantees. We believe that prisoners will be tempted to seek another subterfuge through this instrument to seek the prison benefits, the redemption of sentences, etc. We think this society needs to know the truth. And when we talk about memory – and in this House we do so a lot lately – we will also have to analyze what these decades have been like at university and how it was done in each of the institutional areas in relation to ETA prisoners and determine what happened, who was trying to give priority in certain instances to ETA prisoners, who looked elsewhere, who consented to it, who allowed it. We need to know, and I think it's good that you know those things, what happened in college for so many years. No one should interpret this, of course, as an attack. Conversely, we also have to safeguard UPV's credit, and for that we believe it is necessary to know the truth. And what the victims of terrorism want to be clarified is whether the prison benefits obtained by ETA prisoners (reduction of convictions, the discharges we have known in recent months) meet legal criteria or not, whether they have been obtained in accordance with the regulations, prison legality or not, or have been distorted, and whether those benefits really correspond to them or not. That's what you want to know. And I want to refer, not to repeat arguments, to certainly what has been said in recent times and what we were told yesterday: "Hey, this has already been reviewed. The files were submitted, there was no conviction. He was on trial and there was no conviction, then nothing happened here, everything was right." And I mean that's not the case. With regard to the trial, it is very important to know that what is reported today is not what was reported then and that it was resolved in a trial. The alleged commission of a crime of documentary falsity is alleged by the use or presentation of such documents in the knowledge of its falsity. What was judged in Bilbao, in relation to the situation of prisoners in the UPV, was in that case a complaint of prevarication to certain professors of the UPV, and in that trial, in fact, they were acquitted of the crime of prevarication, because they considered that it did not reach the threshold of gravity and because, according to that sentence, control had to be imposed by the UPV and not by the teacher. That is, they are acquitted not because there was no problem or irregularity, but because teachers are acquitted of responsibility because it is understood that responsibility rested with the UPV, not with the teacher. Because, for the sake of freedom of tenure, teachers could approve prisoners on the basis of what they considered appropriate. It seems to me that this is very important that we know. And it also seems to me substantive to read a paragraph in which the Bizkaia Prosecutor's Office answers the Supreme when he is sent the complaint of Covite. It questions some of the data provided by the Collective of Victims of Terrorism, and says: "Prisoners belonging to the terrorist organization ETA," as the Bizkaia Prosecutor's Office says, "had completed university studies and obtained degrees under strange circumstances, circumstances of lack of data even at the beginning of the files themselves, since many of them did not include the access route used to register." But, and this is the fundamental issue, not even such circumstances, not even those that were finally the subject of the indictment at the previous trial (enlargement of the system for the purposes of those in prison) were considered to constitute a criminal offence: only a failure to comply with the law in force and, ultimately, a failure to comply with the requirements of the system. Then the others, those who have lent themselves to selectivity in order to opt for UPV or to take the 25-year access test must be idiots. Because by jumping, without doing the selectivity or without doing the 25-year test, you can get into college. According to this, there's no problem. It is a crime, apparently a minor, and the UPV does not ask: "Do we have to question any kind of titling in relation to this?". Apparently not. As for the trial at the time, I think it's very important that you know. For the rector said, "No, that thing has already been judged," and that is not true, that thing has not been judged. What was said in that judgment was that they did not go into the substance of the matter, and it is very important that this is known in Parliament. He did not go into the substance of the matter. The investigation of alleged falsifications in the records of the ages: all these remarkable and outstanding ones that were obtained unexamined. They simply enrolled in 14 subjects; they did only one exam, the rest were jobs that were not known who was performing them, without any kind of control, arrived in envelopes since they were not known where. But this was not solved, it did not get to the bottom of the matter; it simply arose. I believe that now, that I am saying that it is not going against that offence of falsification of files, but with the specific cases in which the access requirements were not met, it is important to say and explain what the judge was saying. At that time the judge, the one who absolved the teachers of prevarication, said: "In relation to the studies of prisoners at the university, this has been shown to be a realm of taifas. All this deserves an ethical reproach from those responsible who had to harmonize the right to education of inmates with a check to ensure that education is provided in the conditions and with the rigour and quality inherent in this type of study." In particular, the Kubati case was brought to that trial. As I said before, 14 subjects; he only examined one, all other ad hoc work. That's how you get any college degrees. It is true that the sentences need to be reread, because when we have to get into the bottom of the matter, some teachers do not condemn them for prevarication, but in all the sentences, in all the police and the Civil Guard reports it has been shown and found that there are huge irregularities in a large part of the files of the elderly prisoners. And we have brought this to Parliament, and today a specific complaint is being analysed in relation to university access files, with non-compliance with access tests. And the university pretends to keep looking somewhere else. And all the groups in this House yesterday, with the exception of UPyD and the People's Group, decided that it was practically a scandal to ask the Rector about these things. It was practically an insult to ask about this. An attack on the university, we were told from Bildu yesterday, to whom we have seen insult all the institutions, state magistrates all these years; to insult, at least, the President of the Government, the ministers, to this very House. They try to undermine the credit of all the institutions and it turns out that yesterday they took their hands to the head because we simply asked the rector if he had contacted the Covite victims' association to know exactly the terms of the complaint, if he had put his hands to the work to know if Covite's complaint responds to the reality and if those files of these specific prisoners... It is no longer elucidating about alleged plots; let us forget the elucidations, let us go to the specific cases. It is very easy to bring down the supposed elucubrations in relation to reports from the police, the Civil Guard, which speak of perfectly organized and designed plots and strategies. Apart from the plots and strategies of the left abertzale, let us go to the specific cases: in the UPV, can prisoners, unlike the rest of the students, study and graduate from university without having selectivity or access tests? That's what we need to know. And the UPV, regardless of whether justice works – and I finish now, Madam President – regardless of the sentences, regardless of whether or not that has consequences in relation to the redemption of sentences or the release of prisoners...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u90	Finish up, Mr Oyalus.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u91	If it is discovered that these titles did not correspond to them, these university studies could not carry them out, regardless of whether they were done in strange situations, as the judge says, is the UPV going to do something?, will it withdraw any titles? Or can everyone here be invented and the UPV will continue to endorse those situations? That's what we need to know. I think it's very important, and I finish now, that this House once and for all, and after 20 years in which every two for three comes out cases of this kind... "No, no, this is the judges." No, no. What's going on? That then there would be no sense in any commission of inquiry here? Is there not a political reproach, as the judges say, an ethical reproach to make?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u92	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u93	Good morning, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialist Group has always supported the offer of university studies with all the guarantees – I stress, with all the guarantees – to the imprisoned population, under the conditions laid down by the current legislation, as a very important way of reintegration. And it believes that it is the courts and not this Parliament that are competent to investigate, in their case, the alleged cases of forgery that Covite denounces or, eventually, any other collective or individual person. Ladies and gentlemen, what the two groups, UPyD and the Group of the European People's Party, are bringing to us is the following: "The Basque Parliament agrees to set up a special committee of inquiry into the historical treatment of ETA prisoners by the University of the Basque Country, the irregularities and illegalities that have arisen and the responsibilities that may arise from these events". He does not claim to be a favor, he claims to be a favor on the part of the university – not some professors –, irregularities and illegalities. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a criminal offence, and as a criminal offence, it has its corresponding responsibility or criminal sanction. So far there has been no criminal offence, nothing tried that has led to any illegality; irregularities, non-illegalities. The offence of falsification of a record, of a record, is a serious offence, is a criminal offence, and criminal liability is individual. And it is the judges, as they have been to date, who are competent to investigate the crime, prosecute it and enforce the court. For this reason, the Collective of Victims of Terrorism does what it has to do: after maintaining its conviction, its conviction, that it has mediated forgery in some cases, to report it to the courts. And it is they, ladies and gentlemen, who determine, where appropriate, the responsibilities to which there has been a place. Mr Oyarzabal, Mr Maneiro, a parliamentary committee of inquiry, from which no political or academic responsibility (because the university is autonomous) or criminal responsibility (because we have no capacity to sanction) can be derived, cannot be the proper procedure. And it's the procedure, I understand, what we're talking about, because we won't talk about the victims. We will not talk about the victims because all the victims of terrorism know that the socialists are with them, that their suffering has been ours for many years and remains. And that respect for justice, dignity and memory is always the guide of our political action to close the wounds that terrorism has left in our society. At times, and it has been mentioned here, political responsibility has forced us, forcing Parliament to act in parallel, even in parallel with justice, for the clarification of certain actions which may seem irregular or criminal, provided that political responsibilities can be derived from them. And so it has happened in this House with multiple commissions of inquiry into things that were actually being investigated in parallel by the courts. But what is now before us, in addition to being already in itself, in its expression, an established crime – in the expression – curls the curl, ladies and gentlemen. Because we are asked to investigate not at the same time as justice is doing so, but when justice has already issued its acquittal sentence. That's what we're asked to investigate. Moreover, when justice has said that this was the thing judged, and therefore has the judicial truth on its side. Listen, since Roman times (Ulpiano) has the judicial truth on its side the thing judged or prescribed. And those of us who believe in the Constitution, those of us who defend the Constitution, know that the statute of limitations is a legal institution contained in article 9.2 of the Constitution, that precisely what we affirm is that, over time, situations simply decay. Not all crimes fall, but these do. And that was the reasoning that he used precisely – yesterday we knew –, we do not know when, the Bizkaia Prosecutor's Office by stating that what was being put before the Bizkaia Prosecutor's Office by Covite was either a tried or prescribed thing. It is unacceptable for any ETA prisoner to benefit or be able to benefit from a reduction in his sentence with studies for which he falsified documents in a distant past, it is unacceptable that he could benefit, but that is something that must be corrected by the courts that ensure the effective enforcement of the sentences imposed. It is not a task for this Parliament. And, of course, it is totally unacceptable that these assumptions be used to spread a speck of suspicion over the University of the Basque Country. And I want to remind you of the following, because yesterday there was also speculation about it. It was in 1983 that an agreement was signed between the Secretariat of State for Universities and Research, the Directorate-General for Prison Institutions and UNED, with Felipe González as president, to open the possibility of reintegration through the offer of university studies to the prison population. It was in 1988 when, as rector Emilio Barberá, he agreed with the UNED of Bergara; being Don Iñaki Maiza the director of the UNED of Bergara, he agreed with the UPV to start offering university studies to the prison population. A situation that continues until 2003, in which, being José María Aznar President of the Government, the General Organic Prison Law is amended to issue the requirement to agree, to have to agree, between the university and Prison Institutions. A situation that continues to date, from 2003 to 2015. In 2004, however, a protocol was drawn up by the university, a protocol that had been applied only to the population in French prisons and not to the population in Spanish prisons. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, during all this time there have been proceedings before the judges, before the courts. In 2005 a complaint was filed with the National Court by the AVT, which was filed, as you well know. Other proceedings were also filed with the Gipuzkoa Provincial Court. And before Getxo's 3rd Court of Instruction, in 2005, there were some proceedings that we were talking about yesterday. Some proceedings (a judicial procedure) in which more than 500 academic files have been examined, in which they were accused – yesterday reminded us – 36 people and in which they have declared not only the teaching staff, but the staff of Administration and Services, the directors of the time under review, the deans, vice-deans, etc. And they have given rise to an acquittal sentence. What does that mean? That everyone's innocent? That there has been no irregularity in the past? No, ladies and gentlemen. You know very well, and I also reminded you yesterday, that in the judicial truth someone who is found innocent may have been guilty. Or even among the undefeated, listen! But the dividing line between constitutionally established democracies and totalitarian countries and totalitarian societies lies precisely there, whether we prefer a culprit to be on the street or an innocent in prison. And, frankly – I don't know if it's going to give me time for more, but, if not, I will do it in the reply – you simply present a de facto situation here and pretend that we go in to investigate who, we don't know what, we don't know what time; we don't know who you're going to come in with, with what skills. What if those who don't come are exactly the culprits? Or what? Are we going to plead innocent to those who come and blame those who don't? What responsibilities could become of such an investigation? Would that be a fair settlement? Would that be a fair result? Who's coming? With what procedures, with what sources? What kind of responsibilities are we going to derive from all this? This, of course, is a completely wrong procedure, completely inconsistent. Maximum when justice already has an acquittal ruling on the period that has ended and there is also a statute of limitations. And, therefore, we are to those new issues that may arise, which, by the way, were raised yesterday before the National Court. It is the courts, I repeat, that are competent to be made aware of these criminal offences. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Eubertarians represent the team. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u95	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good noon to all. We have often heard Mr. Maniro slandering the abuses of euscal organizations, endeavoring to limit or destroy them, and it is a new example of this to-day. Yesterday, at the Board of Education, the man who lived shows his wish: To disgrace the good name of the University of Basque Town, to suspect, and to deprive them of their rights. At the meeting yesterday at the board, Mr. Maniro and Mr. Oyreland used the following words about the Basque Country University and today they've been using identical expressions: "Se treatment de una trama, strategy vanade, supportia en el tibi tempo por part de la Universidad del País Vasco para facilitar los studios universitas a los miembros de prisoners, a fine de puedgers abefiens a penicienaries." And these assertions, which are many others, without any proof or severity. Only, based on the charges published by Covit, and the partial information spread by certain media to the four winds. We thought there was a minimum of seriousness in this parliament. Mr. Oybarands and Mr. Maneiro have, in our opinion, passed a few red boundaries in the business and modes of this legislature. And all this, driven by party interests, without measuring the harm they can do to our public college, or by any one knows. They're still the same this time, ignoring the evidence. As Mr. Rector said, Mrs. EncyClaá repeated in the course of the course of the year, the legal institutions have been investigated for the last few years over the Euskal University plates by 500 files, 36 people have been input, and the solution has been final. Three rectors of the Basque Country University have been passed for the last few years to talk about this matter, and the three have expressed a negative in the eyes of these accusations. What was the latest news? Well, on November 13th, 2013, we met yesterday about Covit's complaint that the Public Prosecutor filed investigations. Why? Because they have already been tried, and in these no criminal evidence has been found. It is therefore true that there have been previous complaints against the latter for false academic documents, that of November 2013, and the Bizkaia Prosecutor's Office has decided to file the investigation proceedings once again. I share with Mrs Celá the desire to leave Covite out of this debate, with all due respect, since we are faced with a new attempt to discredit and destroy the Basque institutional framework by UPyD. And this time Mr. Oyarzabal has joined him. By what? By false accusations based on complaints that have so far only resulted in acquittals or that are filed at investigative stages. Charges based on news that gather certain media, without rigor and without any verification. That is why we do not support the creation of a special commission of inquiry. The University of the Basque Country has collaborated with the judicial institutions whenever required and will continue to do so, as the Rector explained yesterday in parliamentary office. I repeat that there have been 500 files required to investigate in recent years, and all of them as a result of acquittal. Nor can we forget that the Constitutional Court has endorsed the implementation of the protocol for the care of inmates in prisons by the University of the Basque Country. A protocol to be drawn up by the university itself along with many other activities, which both the Basque Government and this Parliament have always respected. That is why we have signed a compromise amendment together with the Socialist Group, in which we support the offer of university studies with all the guarantees to the prison population under the legally established conditions, corresponding to the courts – as Mrs Celaá has well explained – in their case, to come to know the cases of falsification, of complaint submitted by Covite. We also recognize the efforts of the UPV/EHU, the effort it makes to guarantee the quality and safety of its entire offer. We support the university in implementing the protocol for the care of inmates in prisons, endorsed by the Constitutional Court, as I have commented, an instrument that, based on the exercise of university autonomy, regulates the conditions under which distance teaching is to be provided in prisons. I would like to thank Mrs Celaá for her willingness to reach agreements on this subject. And I'd like to end up, as I did yesterday in front of Mr. reactor, to maintain the quality and security of all students' college studies in the Basque Country University. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. "And you shall go to the tribe of the children of Israel, who have not set up correction, and the deputy of the children of the children of Israel shall be gathered together. Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u97	Good morning, Congressmen. Yesterday at the Board of Education we had the beginning of the rector at the University of the Basque Country, as has been said, and today, at the whole meeting, we had again the same subject and thought of the old ones. It was an excuse for charges against the five convicts to ask the rector's account about faked academic documents at the Board of Education, and today, in the assembly of the whole, at the same time, they presented this proposal as a special inquiry committee. In yesterday's performance, the parliamentary members who present this other proposal, themselves questioned the rector severely, as was said here. They doubted the good faith of the rector. The college they had suggested that he had given a hand to the prisoners, and they pointed out that the rector knew it. All this, we think, is just an assault on the Basque Country University. That's just the assault on college. We'll repeat what we said yesterday. Basque Country University is the only public university in these countries. It's the only public university with official language in the world. Our university in general does academic work and study in many cases with care, and in many cases excellent; for, as public service, it is certainly a college of high quality. The responsibility of our public college society is acknowledged and known. On the one hand, because he offers to everything that he wants to learn a great deal of study beyond the economic and social degrees of the individual. On the other hand, the contribution made from college to culture and its languages is gratitude and attention. Lastly, and perhaps the most remarkable thing, I should like to shew the work which he does with the persons who are in the state of retirement, especially with the prisoners. It's been a long time, and here it's been mentioned, a question of prisoners and university studies. The record of prisoners in the Universidad Nacional de Educacion a Disstancia UNEDs has been mentioned in the year 2004, and in the time of which the parliamentary law accepted the Basque System Act. In this law, article 8. neglects the right of education, and of equality of choice. At his second point he says: "For reasons of astronomy, for want of freedom, for want of health or paralysis, or for reasons of another kind, to prevent anyone from being excluded from the Euscal University System, it will be fun to continue to develop rules of development, and the policy of choice will encourage students by providing helps and loans, and by developing policy for abolishing the obstacles in society, economics, and geography." To understand exactly what we're talking about, it's important to know what the duties and responsibilities of the university are. The parliament ought to know at least what these are, especially when some of them meanly suggest that the University of the Basque Country is in a bad way. During the past few years, three recruits round the same subject have been said; Juan Ignacio Porez, Manu Montero, and the translator, having requested the High, have passed through this matter in order to speak. We must also remember, here also the saying is, that in this legislature there have been more than once spoken of in this matter. For example, when they introduced it in the seventh legislation, the other proposal of Esscal, as well as of an copyright defence of the education of political prisoners. Or when it was discussed in the third party of October 3rd, 2003 (in this case the parties were party parties, EAJ, EA, and Left Batu), and it was said in the first place: "Because the Right of Education is a Fundamentall Right, and therefore belongs to every man, without considering what his condition is. Thus also the prisoners of Esscal have a right to study in a college where every autonomy state may be allowed to learn in one of the languages which they consider as officers." Later on, at the Board of Education and Cultura, 2004, on June 15th, on the rights of learning students in prison, the Xabier Orma, the other proposal of Raphael Larrena and Matute, which was introduced by the members of the legal student, and by him the Eusunians accepted the amendment introduced by the Socialists. Of the same Illus, and without delay, we may mention the 26th of the United States of the United States, and the 25th of the Constitution of the Kingdom of Spain. article. Popular parties andUPyD use revenge policy. He's in conflict with these parties. It is not enough for the prisoners to punish and the relatives and the punishment attached to their friends and their suffering. They have an obsession against the Basque Country University. As we have seen, obstinately; you are making an obstinate legal law against the Basque Country University. They hate these parties. Yesterday the rector himself said that the two party spoke beyond the frontier. The rector was right. We defend the Basque Country University, we defend it and defend it. And above all, we defend the rights of the prisoners. The Basque Country is an active asset in defense of the prisoner's rights. We have always accused prisoners of obstacles to learn: isolation, unreasoned punishments, kidnappings and thefts, the minimal conditions of study, the prohibition to learn of it, and many other inconveniences. We want to thank for the work of those who, by the same way, support the society of prisoners. Of course, of the relatives and friends of the prisoners, but especially of the students and teachers. They have full support from the Basque People of the Union. The events that are now reported were more than ten years ago. Why do they talk about it now? Since the complaint of the Covite Society is read on its website, it is the opposite of those five prisoners, against the five person whose name is known to be called. The university hasn't been charged. The vindictive greed of the PP and UPyD party wants to defile solidarity and decent work for the rejected. The question is, as yet they have no respect for prisoners for international laws, laws, rules, and rights established by the Constitution and the legislature. It's not meetable on the Board of Education. We think breaking prisoners' rights is serious. The policy of prisoners is unfair. This unjust policy shows the nature of the prisoner's deliberate character. We're talking about the right to education. In order to fulfil this right, the dispersal, the pitiful conditions of distances, and prisons do not contribute at all. If there was need for a special investigation, it would be to know who and how they're ruining the rights of prisoners, who and how they get the personal, academic information they're protected from. There hasn't been any kind of deal for the prisoners, it hasn't been. Is that sorgulability? Yes, those who have violated and hindered the right to learn prisoners. And there have also been political responsibilities, your political responsibilities, those of PPrena andUPyD, who seek revenge and suffering, those of you who oppress human rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u98	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Passing on the answering shift, Mistto. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u99	Thank you, President. It is confirmed what we assumed and what we found yesterday in the committee, that the Basque Nationalist group, EH Bildu and the Socialist Group do not want to investigate what has happened in the UPV for decades, do not want to investigate politically what has happened in the UPV. It is clear, therefore, that they do not want citizens to know the truth. It is logical that Mr Isasi defends the obtaining of university degrees fraudulently by the prisoners of ETA, it is logical that you defend the prisoners of ETA. But it certainly draws attention to the fact that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party insist on the idea that absolutely nothing needs to be investigated, and insist on the absolute falsehood that this initiative is intended to soil the name of the UPV, a falsehood that we are not going to admit. We have even been accused of trying to destroy the UPV as we intend to destroy the Basque institutional framework, and we have been accused of soiling the name of the UPV. No, we want you to know the truth. And you don't want to know the truth, or, rather, as you know exactly what the reality is, what you're trying to do is cover it up so that the citizenry doesn't talk about it. I could also tell you that what you are doing is soiling the good name of Covite, who has made two complaints, with very concrete evidence that irregularities have been committed. And, by the way, neither the April complaint to the Supreme Court nor yesterday's complaint to the National Court has been filed, nor is it similar. So, stop falsifying reality. And another thing. It has nothing to do with what is happening in the field of justice with what we can do in this House, it has absolutely nothing to do with it. They therefore respect the parliamentary sphere, they respect it. And tell the truth about the sentences there have been on these issues, because there have been no acquittals. And if you want to know the truth, find out before, but there have been no acquittals. Mr. Iñaki Oyarzabal also explained perfectly well what that judgment of that court in Bilbao said. They were said to be acquitted of this offence because they felt that it did not reach the threshold of gravity, because control had to be imposed by the UPV and not by the teacher, and for the freedom of chair. But this does not mean at all that we cannot investigate all those irregularities that have existed and that are perfectly documented, and that they will continue to come to light because there are indeed many. The judge in that case, as Mr. Oyarzabal said, spoke of a kingdom of taifas. All this deserves an ethical reproach from those responsible who had to harmonize the right to education of inmates with a check to ensure that education is provided in the conditions and with the rigour and quality inherent in this type of study. That is, it is perfectly believed that there have been irregularities and illegalities of all kinds. It is perfectly proven throughout all these years. You talk about memory, you talk about historical memory, you talk about narrative. Well, we want to know the truth. Why? Because we want to know the truth and because the consequences of all that are still present today; as a result of all that, prison benefits have been obtained and there have been discharges until the day before yesterday. And because we do not want ETA prisoners to enjoy a series of university degrees that do not correspond to them. For all this it has to be absolutely investigated. And the matter is already in the hands of the Ministry of Education itself, which also responded to a letter from the Association of Victims of Terrorism, which said: "Since, for the reasons set out in this letter of request and the accompanying report, irregularities and lack of control in the granting of university studies and degrees by the UPV to prisoners of ETA have been established, we ask you to urge the Ministry of Education and Science to take appropriate measures". This was said by the Ministry of Justice. The Ministry of Education will also have to investigate it. Of course, we think it is an obvious plot, orchestrated and maintained in time with the aim of benefiting ETA prisoners. Talk to university professors, ask, find out, talk to Covite, observe the complaints, see the data. Don't insult the intelligence, don't say we come here to discredit the UPV. On the contrary: you discredit the UPV by maintaining that position of not wanting to know the truth. And we don't charge the UPV. We accuse and say that certain elements from within the UPV defended and benefited prisoners of ETA...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u100	Thank you, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u101	That is what we are saying, in defense of society as a whole, also of the UPV. We, in short, want to know the truth. You want to cover it up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u102	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. And very briefly, because I believe that the arguments are meridianly clear. But it is true that it is necessary, at least, to rebut some things. Mr. Isasi came to tell us here, taking the flag of the UPV, that they have always been the defenders of the UPV, and I think you have no legitimacy to come here to say that, because they never condemned the attacks on the UPV. Yes, the attacks, the attacks on the UPV. Terrorist attacks, attacks on teachers, threats, never condemned them. And today it comes to say that they have always defended the UPV? What UPV? The UPV who was suffering from ETA attacks? The teachers they threatened? When did you support the UPV? I don't think he has the legitimacy to come here and make the speech he makes. Trying to get to know the truth I don't think it attacks anyone, and we've heard that from all groups on other occasions. We today believe that we have the legitimacy to simply ask for this reasonable analysis, because, as has been said, the sentences did not absolve anyone of the things that have been said here. Did the UPV beat him? That's what we would have liked the rector to have done yesterday. Has it been refuted, has it been provided any kind of documentation that says that this is not true what those of Covite say: "The file of these terrorists does not answer the truth, because they made the selectivity that day – here is the test – they made this test that day. "? No, he didn't. We have for many years and there has been no clash, nor has there been any evidence in the trials that the files contain irregularities, falsifications and that those files and qualifications have been fraudulently processed. Then why do you want to charge the complainant? I would have liked the rector to come yesterday to say, "The files of these five prisoners to whom Covite refers are in order." No, he doesn't. There's no evidence. None of the allegations are rebutted, because the files in the university's possession confirm that many of these prisoners entered university studies without being able to do so, through an irregular procedure, by falsifying the data, by falsifying the examinations, which they had not even done. Not if there was a favor or not, but I would like to know, and I think many citizens also, if for a while there were teachers who were shielded in their chair freedom to benefit terrorists. While the terrorist gang ETA threatened a part of the population and also the university and many teachers who had to leave, I would like to know, and I think many citizens would also like to know, whether while ETA threatened some of its colleagues and expelled them from the university, there were teachers who, shielding themselves in their freedom of office, benefited ETA prisoners, treated them favorably or looked elsewhere or gave them the approved ones. Regardless of whether this is going to be condemned or not by prevarication (well, the crime of documentary falsity is there, and the complaint), we want to know, for the sake of memory, what some were doing and what others were doing, that everything is now mixed here. And now it's gonna look like you guys were the college saviors? You? Remembering I think it's good for this society, to know exactly what you were doing, what the teachers who were following their own strategies were doing. I think that's good, politically healthy. And, of course, there will be no memory, neither will you be able to look at the future, nor pass any page if what you do is simply try to hide what happened, try to hide the truth from this society and try to prevent this House from investigating, and engage all, with the sad accompaniment of the socialists in this case... Because I don't do this because he's reported it to Covite. Do you know why I do it, Mrs. Celaá? Because I came to this House many years ago, it was a pipiolin. Do you know who were the first people who told me that strange things were happening in college with regard to prisoners' degrees? Teachers who were linked to the Socialist Party, members of unions close to the Socialist Party. It wasn't Covite, it was those teachers who warned us about what was going on. And I believe that because of the dignity of all those people who suffered, because of dignity, you would have to be on this side, defending that the truth be clarified. Not to condemn anyone, don't talk to me about jail; here it's not about putting anyone in jail – I finish now, Madam President. To know the truth, and simply to defend the dignity of all those who suffered. And to put everyone in their place, and not to come here from saviors who were causing the suffering of this country for so many years, and also affecting the credit of the public university, which is financed by everyone's funds. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u104	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u105	Mr. Oyarzabal, don't kill the nightingale. Here the political dignity of the Socialist Group is what I represent. And I've lost fellow members of the board who have devoted themselves to education, like Fernando Buesa. I've lost. And I've lost a lot of comrades on the way. And I have suffered persecution violence for many years, more years than you, Mr. Maneiro. Therefore, we Socialists know very well what we are talking about. And we know how to regain the dignity of the Basque public university. Or is it that you claim here the commission of inquiry, yes or yes, to know... what truth? Your truth? Your truth, Mr. Maneiro? Is that the truth? Yours, Mr. Oyarzabal? His truth, the one he was told many years ago? Is that your truth? Or do we have to talk about the truth judged? Because you say there's no acquittal sentence, and it's a lie. The judgement concludes as follows: "The actions carried out by the accused do not include, because they do not involve either objective or subjective elements...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u106	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u107	... the offence under prosecution, not being able to do so, and with full respect for the guiding principles of criminal proceedings...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u108	Please, Mr. Oyalus, silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u109	..., rather than concluding with the pronouncement of an acquittal sentence."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u110	Please, it's your turn. Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u111	Sentence absolutaria. Modulen, please. And have respect. Because, Mr. Maneiro, I am not going to allow you, I am not going to tolerate you without protest – obviously we are in democracy – that you say that we dirty the name of Covite. I was looking at that group, less evil, less evil than I was looking at it, because we have never dirtyed the name of an association of victims of terrorism. Rather we have accompanied them, we have been them. They have been. So, what is it, Mr. Maneiro? That here or is the commission of inquiry that Mr Maneiro and Mr Oyarzabal say, or do we not want to know the truth? But what truth? Which one, which one? What's the truth, hear? The one you want to bring us to the commission? With what guarantees? What are we investigating? To what people?, in what time?, with what sources? Who's gonna come and tell us? You said yesterday that they would come and tell us those who for fear left and did not report (hey, they could have reported elsewhere, eh!)). But, nevertheless, some of those who stayed, even with fear, did denounce, and this I have just read to you is their conclusion. No wonder the Bizkaia hearing attorney says, "They're prescribed. They are from 2000 or earlier, 2001. Or they were already tried and they didn't appreciate the crime, so there's no way...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u112	Quiet, please. Silence!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u113	... a new opinion of the facts." The judicial truth, except the divine truth, the revealed truth, that of the ten commandments, the judicial truth is the closest we can be to reality. And I, who am in favour of the commissions of inquiry, see no guarantee in the procedure, no result, because neither political consequences can be derived, nor academic consequences (as I have told you, the university is autonomous), nor criminal consequences, because we are not who to sanction. Therefore, everything else would be an unjust, absolutely unjust settlement. The result would be unfair, because it would be in favour of subjective opinions, subjective truth, that truth in quotes that does not meet the conditions of that objective truth that we are currently supporting. Therefore, with all the dignity of those who preceded us, knowing that there may have been irregularities, that there were them at some time, because it was treated as face what was not face-to-face, with all this we will stick to what the judges say. That is why we are not going to accompany them, with all due respect to the victims of terrorism, to which we are a party, to which we have suffered, and with all due respect to what our public institutions mean: university, Parliament and division of powers. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Eubertarians represent the team. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u115	Thank you. Nor does our group admit that you say that we want to hide the truth and that we want to soil the good name of the University of the Basque Country. We only say that it is up to the courts to come to know, if any, the wrongful allegations, to try and sentence them. And take the sentences, and we do. And in that case I reiterate what the Rector of the University of the Basque Country said yesterday, that the university had collaborated with the judicial institutions whenever it had been required and that it would continue to do so. But what we cannot admit is that it says here again that all this is carried out by a plot, an organized strategy, maintained in time by the university. We can't admit that. And what you're doing here is that by these words, it's defaming and soiling the good name of the University of the Basque Country. And we're not gonna admit it. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. And finally, EHG Team rep. Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u117	Thank you. Mr. Maneiro, Mr. Oyhale. If you were backward, you'd walk backwards. Here, in this parliament, what they say, and what Maneiro said of me today, is not acceptable. I don't know how you can say things like that. It's pretty obvious in this debate that the problem is absolutely an amateur. Here, I mentioned before, you want to start a policy of vengeance. And in this case, the object has not been the prisoner's end, and it's the goal you've taken in the Basque Country University. When you propose a special investigation, there's no question of what happened about the charges of Covit, what you want to investigate and what you say is the University of the Basque Country. The Basque Country University, and here Mrs. Céla, has sufficiently explained what conversion and process have been since 2003. It has nothing to do with those who are imprisoned in the Spanish State, and you have wanted to go back to denounce it. But what we want to accuse is the continual oppression and ruin of the rights of those who are in prison. Our business and the business of the university, and I, among other things, am a college college man, if it be a matter of indifference to those who have no freedom, to fulfil their rights. And it's our job and duty. The procedures you use, the speech you use, is the speech of hatred, is the discourse of hate. You don't want to admit the prisoner when I say he's a prisoner here, I say he's entitled to any convict in the world to be a student of high school. If he chooses to make use of it, he is acknowledged to have this right, and this right cannot be denied. And in this case, what we're doing is that if you're looking for any kind of operational data one day, we're going to ask about how the rights of those people who are imprisoned are to be torn. When they're in isolation (and there are a dozen cases when they're written), and to learn that they were taking advantage of their isolation when they saw them, the prison manager introduced them in the 24-hour courtyard so that they couldn't learn to be in the courtyard. Yes, Mr. Barrio, they take away the material to learn in the prisons. There's been reports and documented. In any case, what we're trying to say is that one of the jobs done at the Basque Country University was not enough, and yet we want to thank the students for what we've done. Two, that they have a perfect right, and that if it serves them as a proof of sorrow, it is perfectly permitted. Three, we want to mend prisoners as fast as we can. Four, that titles obtained are perfectly permitted, and that there is no right to keep this persecution and your stubborn and retrospect attitude here. With what you've done for years, with your political attitude, I think, you show your size, your hatred of planning. We, of course, will not support you, for we do not see that we need such committees as the earlier groups have proposed. And we're gonna give the half-way correction that has been presented to us. For we think that in this case we ought to consider how the rights of the prisoners are still crushed. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u118	Thank you, Mr. Isas. After discussion, Mistata-UPyD and Euscal Group are made to vote in the original text of another proposition. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 10; the contrary, 63; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u119	Original text was not accepted as a result. We'll next vote for the middle-term correction of the Basque Socialists and the Eucabertarians who have signed the media. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the assembly are 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 43; the contrary 10; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-25.u120	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Before I finish, I have to report an institutional statement to you. I'll read a little bit: "The next meeting of the United States will assume the development of the Agel after 2015, and in front of it the US legislature will demand government and the organization of the United Nations by an institutional expression. "The law of Europe demands that the countries of G7 and G20 should consider the accounts referred to in this institution of expression in the development of the July Addis Ababa, the high meeting of the 2015 descendant of September New York, on the summit of the November G20 of Izmir and on the summit of the August climate of Paris." As I have said, because the statement is long, he who wants to read has it hanging on the web page. So I feel like the whole meeting's over. It was three o'clock in the afternoon and nineteen.
