ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we begin, I want to remind you that the fourth point will be discussed in the sixth and the sixth in the fourth. First point in theme list: "The legal proposition made by the Socialists of Euscal, concerning the institutional organisation of the Euscal Autonomia Er member. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you're being divided, and we're just about to argue. First, it's a side shift. Who's going to participate? [[Pause]] Then, in turn, the Idion Mountain is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u1	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. We propose to reform the Law of Historical Lands to-day, to this Chamber. It's the old request for my party, you know, but we can't delay it any longer. It's time to rethink our country structure. It's time to modernize our organizations. This is what we propose to promote the efficiency of the euscal administration, to promote the cooperation of the countries, and to ensure the equality of the citizens. Euskadi needs to catch up. It needs to respond to citizens' demands, demands for equality in rights and obligations, territorial and social cohesion; demands for transparency, efficiency, guarantees in the provision of public services and the shielding of social rights. Some of these issues escape our hands, they do not exclude them even if they exceed them. But updating our self-government is one of our tasks. There is a part of the responsibility that is ours, that of agreeing between the Basques; and another part that appeals to the rest of Spain, that of agreeing with the rest of the state to improve that shared and collaborative project that we now have. But as I was saying, there are things that only depend on us. And one of them is to move forward in the modernization and rationalization of our administrations. It is already time to put black on white, a proposal for the modernization of our internal institutional organization and for each of the parties to position themselves in this regard. And that is what we propose to this House today. We propose that without expecting anyone, without relying on anyone but ourselves, we reach a renewed agreement of collaboration and cooperation between the different Basque administrations; an agreement that allows these administrations to be more effective in providing public services and guaranteeing citizens' rights, and that from the territorial diversity and recognition of differences between territories, collaboration allows citizens to be equal. Some have wanted to present this initiative as an attempt to nullify the historical territories. That would mean reforming the Constitution and the Statute, and we do not do so in this proposal. The Statute recognizes the historic territories and their ability to organize themselves, of course. But it also recognizes the Basques, the Autonomous Community, with a number of competences affecting the Basques as a whole. For 30 years we have had a law regulating the distribution of responsibilities according to what the Statute itself says, in matters that Parliament points out to you. And that law did not exactly have a great consensus, as has been the case with those who have regulated our health, our education, our social protection, our linguistic normalization or the recognition of victims. That law was controversial, even within the same party that promoted it. However, it has lasted for three decades. And it has done so with specific modifications, because that design often clashed with the development of the rest of the legislation that came out of this Parliament. The absence of a municipal law led to such a distribution to function as a sort of agreed internal organization. Today we are finally working on a municipal law, a law that will define the responsibilities that our municipalities must assume, the guarantees that they have the resources to provide these services, and the compensations that must exist when for different reasons imbalances occur. A propitious opportunity for us to review the whole of our institutional architecture. A commitment made by the Government itself in the agreements signed by the lehendakari in September 2013 with my parliamentary group. We reached that agreement after having heard a great majority of voices in the Duplicity Paper calling for that revision. We set a deadline to do so, but the Government and the party that supports it have not fulfilled their part. Therefore, it cannot be disregarded that this parliamentary group, and not the Government, has assumed the responsibility to bring this law. But we Socialists are once again making use of the legislative initiative capacity that, in addition to the Government, we have groups and citizens. We enforce it as we socialists did in solitary with the Law of Incompatibilities, the Law of Long Life Learning or the Law of Housing. We enforce it as we have done with other laws at the hand of other groups, or as other groups have proposed theirs. Therefore, it is not possible to pretend to misdraw this proposal either by the author of the initiative, or because it distorts what is provided for in the Statute, nor to appeal to concepts that have been mythified on the basis of falsehoods, and I am referring to the so-called "intangible core of forality". It is an expression which is not based on any legal principle and which, however, has intended to be used as such, as we have seen in many allegations made by the Members. Forals, outside institutions that are, because it is the Constitution that recognizes and protects the updating of historical rights, but it is the Statute that updates and integrates those rights – which all that says the first additional provision, we must not only stay in the first sentence – because Euskadi has historically been articulated in the outside regimes and it was the Constitution of the first 78 and the Statute of Gernika after those who recovered that tradition but in a singular way. In the new autonomous system the common institutions are the receivers of the foral update. It is, therefore, the Statute of Autonomy that specifies the terms of that update, and this is clarified by the Constitutional Court in its judgment of the year 88. That judgment establishes that the Statute of Gernika is the founding norm of our Community, and therefore becomes the founding norm of the common institutions as well as the standard of integration and restructuring of the power of self-government of the historical territories. Another thing is that, after the adoption of the Statute, another development of the internal institutional structure has been sought, that the historical territories have been sought exclusively in an important area of competence, or that in the framework of the Economic Agreement the common institutions have been wanted to become guests of stone, or that a confederal system in the distribution of financial resources has been sought to deprive Parliament of any political leadership capacity through the laws. I insist, it is the Statute, from the framework that allows the Constitution, that develops the capacity of our deputies. The Gernika Statute is limited to ensuring what has traditionally been done to identify as the institutional guarantee of the foral system, which directly reserves to the foral bodies minimum powers, mainly linked to that guarantee, and provides that, beyond that minimum area, the historical territories will have the exclusive powers that are transferred to them by the common institutions, such as the powers of normative development and enforcement in the areas that the Basque Parliament points out to them. That is why what this proposal proposes is perfectly in line with our Statute. That is why I was saying that you need nothing more than the will of those of us sitting in this Parliament. It is a proposal which recognises the important role that the historic territories should play in managing a broad sector of public activity, but which recognises, at the same time, that the overall political direction belongs to this Parliament and to the Basque Government. It is a question of taking advantage of the long tradition of management of outlaws, consolidating them as supra-municipal entities managing important public services, and it seems desirable, given the dimensions of our territories and the municipal dispersion among them. But it is also a question of strengthening political integration in particular, through the allocation of political leadership powers to the Basque Government and to this Parliament. Because an autonomous community of the dimensions of Euskadi, which are those of a great city, cannot afford such political disintegration as has been deepened throughout the development of our autonomous system. And if we go from the tax point of view, the existence of three competition systems to set standards has shown an anachronism that leaves this Parliament outside the ordinary exercise of regulatory regulation of taxes, because the unity of regulation in such a small area as Euskadi is inescapable, because the reservation of law is an ordinary requirement in all democratic systems, and because it is necessary to exercise common political leadership by the Basque Parliament and the Basque Government. Especially when 70% of all that is collected is the bulk with which public services are financed for 100% of the population; and if in this Parliament we decide on the destination of 70%, shouldn't we also have the capacity to decide how these revenues are obtained? The reform we are proposing will not affect the system of tax management, which will be maintained in the area of historical territories, where there is a consolidated structure of public finances. The amendment is limited to ensuring harmonisation. No one in this House can be surprised. This is what we did in September 2013, since the socialist insistence, in a full monograph and which gave rise to the three fiscal reforms in the three territories, with homogeneous criteria. And because, moreover, the normative capacity of the three territories is already limited by the Law on Concert and the Statute, developed in the Law on Harmonization. And despite this recognized capacity, there have historically been difficulties in the political management of this reality, because the territories have in fact imposed the marginalization of the harmonizing competence of the common institutions. We have been correcting this with a great deal of political will, as I said, laying the foundations in this Parliament for the reforms approved by the three general meetings. Four are the objects of this proposition: To modify the internal institutional structure of Euscadi, to ensure the cohesion of equality and country, to advance in a democratic quality and the transparency of our institutions, and finally to maintain and improve the public services of our councils. Given the suspicions that have been set out on the intentions of this law, these are the objectives. First, to modernise the internal institutional framework of this Autonomous Community, eliminating inefficiencies and duplication that are currently taking place in our system. We want to move towards a more sustainable and effective institutional model, clarifying the division of competences, establishing mechanisms for coordination and cooperation. We want to ensure equality and social and territorial cohesion, that all Basques live where they live, have the same rights, obligations, benefits and access to basic services. We propose that imbalances be corrected with a special fund for territorial levelling. We also want to improve the democratic quality and transparency of our institutions. We want to give back to the Basque Parliament, its role in the general political orientation of Euskadi; that it exercises the tax powers deriving from the Statute of Autonomy; that it participates in the distribution of financial resources, that it regulates new powers and functions of the territories. In short, that what affects everyone is decided among all those who here represent all Basque citizens. Finally, a key focus of this project is to support the services provided by the municipalities. And this links with the open debate on municipal law. We want to ensure that the municipalities have sufficient resources to exercise their powers, and that the Basque Parliament determines the criteria for the allocation of a new municipal funding fund to support these annual municipal budgets. This is a proposal by the Socialists, but with the will to serve all Basques and thus to achieve the maximum consensus of the Basques. We put in place a law born without agreement, which has been overcome by reality and by the passage of time, is replaced by a new will of agreement between us, in order to gain in collaboration and effectiveness, useful for the citizens. We know that in this House there are those who would like to leave things as they are, as if the current way of organizing ourselves was the best. We also know that there are those who would like this reform to end up on the table, in an absolute centralization of the country, with the annihilation of the parliaments. But ignoring or diluting the socio-economic and territorial political diversity without reflecting it in our institutional system would be illusory or, even worse, bet by a system of government aimed at absolute failure. The Socialists, both within the Basque Country and throughout Spain, believe that we must respond to the singularities of the different territories, that plurality and diversity must be recognized and integrated into the common project that we must update. The citizens are asking for efficiency and transparency, and we must come to this request. I'm sure these different groups have a chance to make a deal on this subject. I'm sure we can all find ourselves around these honest objects. I'm sure it's time for us to be careful about our fellow-citizens and the future of this town. We are convinced that modernising our administrations, putting them in the 21st century, doing so with broad consensus, gaining social and territorial cohesion, is one of the main challenges we have to face. We can leave everything for later, for when others come, for future times, but that is not what suits the Basques as a whole. What suits them, because they claim it, is that the administrations should be able to deal effectively with them, that their taxes should not be lost due to inefficiencies or duplication. Our obligation is to respond to that citizen's claim. We have a chance to meet, because we do not want to doubt that all the groups in this House are also looking for the same effectiveness, efficiency. So, we call on this motion for a law to support this House, so that this proposal is assumed as a working basis for a basic consensus on the functioning of our administrations for the coming decades. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Misst, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u3	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. I will vote in favour of taking into account this proposal for a law presented to us by the Socialist Group for consistency with what has been done in this Parliament by UPyD since we first appeared in 2009. No one escapes that UPyD has been the political party that has on more occasions insisted on the need for a thorough reform of the Historical Territories Act. There have been countless occasions when we have defended such an initiative. There have been countless occasions when we have put forward, through questions, interpellations, non-law proposals, motions of all kinds, both to this Government and to the previous Government, the repeated, permanent request to promote the reform of the Historical Territories Act. Therefore, once the Socialist Group has tabled this bill, I will obviously vote in favour of it. And I will indeed defend the same issues and objectives that I have been defending all these years, almost always in absolute solitude. Innumerable were the occasions when I asked the lehendakari López and also the lehendakari Urkullu about his willingness to push forward this reform of the Historical Territories Act. And countless times, all of them, on which both one lehendakari and the other constantly answered us not. The aim, therefore, of this reform of the Historical Territories Act, in our view, should be to simplify and reduce the over-sizing of existing administrations in Euskadi. Not so much philosophy on the matter, or raising certain doubts, or calling for reflection and awareness, but above all acting, amending laws, and amending in this case the Historical Territories Act. Avoid waste of resources, intractable bureaucracy, administrative duplication, dispersal of effort and a great deal of unnecessary spending. The aim is to ensure equal provision of services to all citizens, irrespective of their place of residence in the Basque Autonomous Community. It is a question of the citizen being able to distinguish clearly between the various institutional levels, knowing exactly which institution he or she provides and who he or she pays the taxes to. It is a question of identifying competences with absolute clarity. The aim is to facilitate the provision of more and better public services. The aim is to rationalise and modernise our institutional architecture; to rationalise, modify and clarify the division of powers between parliaments and government; and to ensure the highest possible equality, both in the provision of public services and in the payment of taxes. The reform of the law of Historical lands ought to seek some ends: the division between the government and the diputations which now exist, and the distribution of the jurisdictions between the people and the people, whether it be destroyed or established by the differences of commerce, that is not necessary, to manipulate the expense, to modernize the Euscandi, to confer more public services on the Basque people. These are the targets. That said, it is certainly a reality that the reform of the Historical Territories Act has been one of the essential issues that UPyD has been defending. We think that in the immediate future, that is, as soon as possible, we should go far beyond what is being proposed today. What we are defending today is a profound reform of the Spanish Constitution and a profound reform of the Statute of Gernika, which would imply the very suppression of the deputies; of the provincial and also of the outlaws and, as a result, of the general councils of the historical territories. In this new scenario, to which we aspire as soon as possible, it is obvious that the Historical Territories Act would no longer make any sense, because there would be no general councils of the historical territories, nor would there be any deputies. And, therefore, what we propose is that before or after these reforms have to be carried out and, therefore, not only, or in the short term, the reform of the LTH, but directly its repeal. This is what we too, in one way or another, have advocated during these years in this Parliament. In that regard, the socialist proposal was certainly short, but in any case, as long as we did not achieve those objectives that it had set before, it was clear that the amendment of the Historical Territories Act was necessary to achieve all those objectives. Having said that, I believe that this proposal for a law of the Socialist Group is raised, registered and defended voluntarily late. It is late, there is less than a year left for the end of the Legislature and it seems clear that there will not be enough time for an agreement between the main political parties in the coming months and for this reform proposed by the Socialist Group to be approved. Therefore, our suspicion is clear. We think that behind this presentation of this initiative in November 2015 there would be a political pact between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party so that it can't really be carried out and everything goes more or less as it is. Because, I say, there have been countless occasions when a servant in this Parliament has defended the reform of the LTH and always all parties, including the Socialist Group, voted against it. It is now presented when there is less than a year before the end of the legislature and when everyone knows perfectly well that there is not enough time to carry out that reform. In any case, for consistency, we say that we are going to vote in favour of its consideration, so that we can work as diligently as possible and we can push forward that reform of the Historical Territories Act, although, I insist, our goal goes far beyond that. Our goal is to reform the Spanish Constitution, our goal is to suppress provincial deputies, our goal is to suppress outlaws, our goal is to suppress the general councils of the historical territories, our goal is to merge municipalities, also guarantee the maximum possible equality of Spanish citizens and maximum fiscal equality. And all this with the aim of ensuring the greatest possible well-being for all citizens. Therefore, despite the fact that our objective is that, today we believe that it is a necessary step for us to discuss this text as soon as possible and we can push for the improvement of the Historical Territories Act. On the other hand, it is interesting to have heard Mrs Mendia defend some of the principles that we have been defending over the last few years. Mrs Mendia has defended the equality of Basque citizens. Mrs Mendia has argued that the overall political action affecting Basque citizens corresponds to the Basque Parliament. Mrs Mendia has made an allegation against political disintegration. Mrs Mendia has defended fiscal equality in Euskadi and has criticised the existence of three different tax systems within the Basque Autonomous Community. Mrs Mendia spoke of territorial cohesion. Mrs Mendia and Socialists, would you be able to defend these same principles for the whole of Spain? In the same way that you say that all Basques, live where they live, must receive the same services and have the same rights, can you say that all Spaniards, live where they live, must receive the same services and have the same rights? Obviously we defend those same principles, both in Euskadi and for Spain as a whole. It's a matter of coherence. Just as it seems absurd to us that there are three fiscal policies in Euskadi, it seems absolutely absurd and unjust to us that there are five tax regimes in Spain, or that there are two clearly differentiated systems, such as the Economic Concert or the Navarro Convention. In any case, it is a problem that the Socialists have, that problem of obvious inconsistency. We are consistent and all of these principles stand for them both for the Basque citizens and for the Spanish citizens as a whole. In any case, I shall vote in favour. It'll go on. And we can say that, six and a half years later, we will get to work and proceed with the reform of the Historical Territories Act. In the case of UPyD, without forgetting its higher objectives, which is to guarantee the maximum equality of all Basque citizens, of all Spanish citizens, for which it is indispensable, as I said before, a profound reform of the Spanish Constitution itself. It is a necessary step, but it is an insufficient step in the right direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u4	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Crossing the opposite turn, which part? [[Pause]] Mrs. Llanos, representing the population party, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Obviously, and given the turn I am taking, it is clear that the People's Party, the People's Group, is going to vote against the consideration of this proposal. As a previous step, and the proposer herself has also mentioned, of course, that we political groups have the possibility of legislative initiative. What is happening is that it is shocking that the Socialist Party itself, when it was in the government, said that important amendments, as it certainly could be, should be made in the manner in which draft laws are regulated, that is, accompanied by all the requirements for the elaboration of general provisions. And yet, as I say, in the reform of a law as important as this, it seems that that concern that was in the government, now from the opposition, is not shared. Leaving aside the way of doing and introducing ourselves already in the background, it is true that, as pointed out in the proposition itself, the institutional structure of Euskadi is complex. It is true that, unlike the organization designed by the Constitution in the rest of Spain, where there are three steps – central government, autonomous communities and municipalities – in Euskadi we have four steps: central government, autonomous communities, historical territories and municipalities. This institutional architecture derives directly from the first additional provision of the Constitution, which protects and respects the historical rights of the outlying territories and which is reflected in the Statute in its article 37. The Constitution is therefore the basis and guarantee of the existence of the foral regime, a system of territorial self-government proper to each historical territory. And the Statute is the vehicle for updating historical rights in the three territories; in addition to recognizing their existence, it enshrines its minimum content. The Constitutional Court itself in various judgements, such as 76/88, states that Article 37.2 of the Statute establishes that both the powers and powers conferred on the new bodies being created, the autonomous communities, and the common institutions, must be without prejudice to the guarantee of the outside regime and the inherent powers of the historical territories. And as I said, Article 37 of the Statute establishes a number of exclusive powers, I do not know whether the intangible core of forality, Mrs Mendia, but rather an unavailable core, as the Constitutional Court itself points out. Article 37 also establishes a number of powers that the Autonomous Communities may grant, either through the Historical Territories Act or through other formulas. It should also be borne in mind that the powers conferred by article 41 of the Statute and the Law on Concertation in tax relations between the State and the Basque Country are given precisely to the historical territories. Having said that, from the People's Group we wish to emphasize, as we have done on other occasions, our absolute respect for the institutional architecture that appears designed in our Constitution and in our Statute. And if we want a different institutional architecture, what must be addressed is precisely that statutory and constitutional change. It is true that our system can be improved so that it gains in efficiency and efficiency, with the aim set in the public interest, yes, according to this, but always from respect for that institutional structure. We have never refused from the People's Group to improve our institutional system or to amend the Law on Historical Territories, which, like any other law, is not immutable and can be modified to avoid duplication or to prevent the exercise of the same powers by multiple institutions, even though some changes that have been made in Spain in this respect have not exactly been supported by the Socialist Party. But, as I said, the modification that must be carried with it is also an amendment to the Act on Contributions, that is, that which regulates the distribution of Euskadi's resources derived from the management of the Economic Concert, so that this distribution is accompanied by the distribution of competences, which at this time does not happen. In the Basque Parliament, we have worked on the Paper on Duplicity, of which the work is to be completed, and on the Paper on Self-Government. However, without waiting for the results, the Basque Socialist Party has introduced this reform of the Historical Territories Act, as it said at first, through a bill. The truth is that there are many who accuse the People's Party of being a centralist party. However, it is other political forces that are proving that they have been attacked by an absolute centralizing virus, and certainly in the case of the Socialist Party, in addition to centralizing, uniforming. The mantra with which you lately give the raca-raca is that of the federal state, in which Euskadi would become a federated state and it seems that without the idiosyncrasy of our own with which we now count. And a good proof of that is this proposition of law, that we are going to lose that idiosyncrasy. And that's the intention. And so, when the reform is presented, it becomes clear that what is intended with it is that Euskadi functions as a single country. It is also pointed out that the equality of all Basques is being sought, and it has been repeated here today, obviating that equality does not mean uniformity, as you Socialists have said in this House, because they consider that the maintenance of three provincial competition systems on the regulatory regulation of taxes has been shown to be an anachronism that leaves aside common institutions in the ordinary regulation of taxes. That's what you said. And let us not be fooled, this proposal does not seek to reform the Historical Territories Act. Its aim is nothing but to centralize competences. What it seeks is a loss of the competences of the historical territories, it seeks a dispossession of its normative capacity. In short, what he seeks is to empty out the outside territories of its own content. The whole proposal reflects an obsession with control and harmonization by the Basque Government, and the structure of the text itself is reflected. In the face of a systematic structure of the current Historical Territories Act, which clearly classifies the exclusive competences of the autonomous communities and of the historical territories, the content of the proposal is absolutely asymptomatic and, moreover, intentionally. And it is preceded by a section of general principles clearly embodying that centralizing spirit. In the words of the proponents, "it is intended to give the Basque Government a central role in tax matters", and I would say that it is almost exclusive. Thus, in these general principles it states that "the powers of the historical territories may in no case undermine the legislative powers of the autonomous communities", whether exclusive or not. Instead of talking about legislative capacity for exclusive competences, it speaks of "regulation capacity". What is this, Mrs. Mendia? Only the possibility of drawing up regulations? And that is always in line with what the Autonomous Communities have developed. The regulatory power of the historical territories seems to survive only in the case of tax competition. However, extensive regulation of fiscal harmonization is being made by pointing out that the historical territories will regulate in a uniform manner the substantial elements of the various taxes and that, in addition, the Basque Government will ensure that this is done. Moreover, when a tax is amended, the Basque Government will draw up a preliminary memorandum, and if it is considered that such a quasisimetic regulation of the tax is broken, it will draw up a bill on harmonization, which will be adopted in this Parliament. We see, therefore, a clear restriction, almost until the annihilation of the normative capacity of the historical territories, contrary to the statutory and constitutional regulations themselves. Nor does it fit well with the competence of the historical territories the attribution to the Basque Finance Council, exclusively, the elaboration of a plan to combat tax fraud, eliminating this possibility to the historical territories. Or that Cooperation Council, which will operate in all jurisdictions. The suspicion that it seems to place on the historical territories by using the same accounting instruments, as well as that interterritorial leveling fund. Finally, in the distribution of resources, they point out that a ethereal concept will be used, the average per capita expenditure, which is not very well known, and moreover it seems that the Basque Government's approach can be imposed, contradicting what the Constitutional Court itself has said, which pointed out that the distribution of resources must be the result of an agreement of wills. With regard to the competences recognized in the current Act on Historical Territories, either because they form part of that intangible nucleus of forality, or because they have been transferred and, as a result, become the competences of the historical territories, we see that with this new regulation they are deprived of them. We are not, therefore – and that is the fundamental reason why we are going to vote against this consideration – we are not facing a reform of the Historical Territories Act, no; we are facing a new organization of the institutional building in Euskadi. And in addition, you have shown it in your speech, an attempt to empty out the outside institutions, with the excuse of modernization. It cannot be forgotten that our system of concert and quota is justified by the existence of the historical territories, that if these disappear or their content is emptied, probably the concert and quota would be questioned, because attacking the historical territories is as much as attacking the concert and quota. And this cannot be done through a law in the Basque Parliament. This, if it is to be done, should be done through a statutory amendment and, where appropriate, a constitutional amendment. As I said, that is why we are going to vote against the consideration of this proposal, because it is not a modification, you have in no way cleared up the doubts about the modification or the survival of the historical territories, no. This law is aimed at a transformation of the institutional structure in Euskadi and at giving it a new institutional structure, as a step before the definitive disappearance of the historical territories and the outlaws. And, of course, from the Group of the European People's Party we have this very clearly. We are absolutely respectful of the current institutional framework, we bet for its maintenance, for the maintenance of the Basque Government and for the maintenance of the three outlaws and for the defence of them. We have demonstrated and re-emphasized here today that it is clear that the Law on Historical Territories can be amended, but not to finish the foral model, which is what this proposal seeks, or to finish our historical rights, which is what some and clearly what Mr Maneiro has shown here, but in order to improve the distribution of competition and to avoid duplication. We are against any attempt to put an end to the differential facts of each of the three Basque historical territories, in order to give in and focus on construction... I don't know if you too are going to point to the same concept of the outside nation. From the People's Group we are prepared to agree on any improvement, but whatever that is, an improvement of our institutional system, to make it more effective, to benefit the Basques as a whole, but of course without attacking the substantial core of forality, which is what is done with this proposal. Because it clearly does, what it is trying to do is empty out the proper and substantial competences of the historical territories, and we, from the People's Group, are not going that way. We are going to vote, as I say, against any annihilation of the outside system. And of course, I want to say from here that if we take into account this proposal for a law, those who should react should be the outlaws, because those who are undermining their competence, those who want to annihilate the competences they have at the moment, are the outlaws. They should react. And if they really respond to the interests of the Vizcains, the Alaves and the Gipuzcoans, to the defense of the historical territories and the forality, they should react. If, of course, they overtake party interests, we will see that they will not react. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u6	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u7	Mrs. Llanos, for raising the tone one is no longer right. But I'd like to ask you a question. If we agree that this is a rule of law and that it is the courts of justice and the Constitutional Court that resolves conflicts and interprets our rules, it is surprising that they are continually precluding themselves from taking over the rulings of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court. And of course, also listening to it I understand why you care so well for the conservative pattern and others we understand so well for the reformist pattern. And also to tell you that it draws my attention, Mrs Llanos, unless you use it for political reasons, that you have not bothered to read the federal proposal of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, because that proposal, already implemented in 2013, but also recently implemented, integrates and maintains the territorial singularities and seeks, above all, to solve the problems we have; not to end what works, which is for example the Economic Concert. He said recently, he wrote a member of his group, who sits on his bench, that without forality there was no common Basque project and that there was no viable alternative to forality. Just thinking about the breakup or the resignation was anti-vasco. However, the socialists believe that the Basque political community is born of the recognition of citizenship, of persons with rights and obligations under the Constitution, and of the political will derived from those rights to form a shared project, which incorporates our uniqueness. There were outsiders in the old regime, there was no Euskadi. There were also in the restoration and neither was there Euskadi. There was a foral right and a recognition of how to organize ourselves through the Concert, but neither was there Euskadi. The Concert remained in two provinces during the franchise, and neither was there Euskadi. There is Euskadi when the citizens of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa decide to form a political unit, which recognizes equal rights and obligations and updates the outlaw regime in what these citizens establish. And this is what the Socialists think. And this is what has been ratified by the Constitutional Court in the judgment of the year 88, except that the PP says here and now that it does not recognize what is established by the Constitution. Which would be pretty surprising. To continue with the rulings, which, we assume, are binding on the People's Party, should know well what the Supreme Court issued last July, ratifying for Álava what it had already arranged for Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia. The Supreme recalls once again that the historical territories do not have competence over budgetary matters, because the local regime is the exclusive competence of the common institutions, according to article 10 of the Statute, and the latter leaves in its article 37 the demarcations, municipal property, electoral regime and technical assistance to the territories. Point. Where can this idea of foral guardianship come from to the municipalities? As in almost everything about the LTH, of a topic. A topic fed only by the practice and the absence of municipal law. The LTH has been placed as the formula with which to cover, according to the interpretation concerned, what refers to the regulation of the local. And that interpretation has been the perfect excuse to postpone indefinitely making a municipal law. But we're finally working on that law. With a government project, which, by the way, continues to amaze this outlawist paternalism, which in its day was also claimed by the deputies of Álava and Bizkaia to the project made by the socialist government and which, I would like to recall, was rejected by the Arbitral Commission, whose chair occupies the president of the TSJ of the Basque Country, whom I believe he never likes to fail to comply with the Constitution. But the very discussion of that law makes it even more relevant for us to review the way in which we organize ourselves internally today, in this legislature. The Statute also lays down in Article 42 that it is Parliament which determines the contributions of the Members of Parliament. The current LTH, however, in its Article 22, leaves it to the Basque Finance Council. What a body decides, which is not of direct representation, is put to the vote without the possibility of amendment before this Parliament, without transparency, here, where we sit and we represent all Basque citizens. We want this House to fulfil the function assigned directly to it by the Statute of Autonomy. And it is hard to understand that in this Parliament there is anyone who wants to give up that capacity to propose and agree on how to regulate these contributions, how to strike that balance between the efforts of taxpayers in each territory and how to correct imbalances. Almost five months ago, this Parliament passed a law on Basque Civil Law unanimously. A law that updates our peculiarities and traditions in private law, to put them at the service of the Basque citizens of the 21st century. It does so in order to achieve effectiveness in the regulation of everyday life and progress in the equal rights of all Basques, regardless of their place of residence, their economic capacity, their sex or their ideology. The implementation of this law seems to be satisfactory for all, legal operators and citizens. There are no outlaw tears, and there is a gain in efficiency and equality in the private sphere. Why isn't it going to be possible in public? This law that we offer today to seek consensus must move away from any essentialism, leaving aside taboos and complex. Citizens expect us to be effective in providing services, which is what different administrations do. They refuse to waste time in sterile disputes that do not solve their problems. And we can devote some time to what the outsiders have been, but our responsibility in this House is not to be historians, but to solve the problems of the Basque citizens. To answer and prepare this country, because we do believe that we are three territories, but only one country, to respond to the challenge of the future that Euskadi has, which is very great.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Is Maneiro going to take the word?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u9	Thank you, President. Mrs. Mendia, I don't think we're three historic territories, not one country. I believe that we are a political community of equal free citizens, who in this case form an autonomous community, within a country called Spain. I think they're different things, but we're mostly citizens. I am not a historical territory, nor are we three historical territories; we are citizens, who must be guaranteed public rights and services. And this must be the fundamental objective of any political action, of any law, of any legal reform, of any decision taken by any government. Objective: to ensure better public services for all citizens. And in this case it's certainly curious... well, it's not curious, it's usual, Mrs. Llanos's speech not only ultraphoralist, but ultraconservative. Because it has certainly caught your attention that you speak of outlaws as if they were people of flesh and blood who were from here to there. As if you were more respectful of certain institutions, in this case the outlaws, than the Basque citizens we must serve. And it certainly draws attention to the fact that you defend more the members of Parliament than the citizens and their own rights, forgetting that what is important to defend are public services, the provision of services, equality, solidarity, and that the institutions, any institution, any government, are not an end in itself, but a means to guarantee all of the above. Therefore, any legal reform that must be guaranteed is not the survival of a particular institution or the specific protection of outlaws, it does not have to be the object of any legal change. But it has to be to protect citizens, to ensure that there is more equality, better public services, more solidarity, that people can live better. Therefore, focus yourself and focus on it, on what we do to ensure that people's lives can be better. That is, therefore, the objective. Mrs Mendia did not want to answer any of the questions, because surely her inconsistency is evident. But this debate is interesting. In addition to specifically analysing what the proposed law proposes, it is interesting that the Socialist Group here defends that there may be the same rights for all citizens, that we all enjoy the same services regardless of where we live, that we all receive the same benefits regardless of whether we are Vizcains, Gipuzcoans and Alaveses, or that we all receive the same funding. It's interesting that you can say that. I hope you can defend these same principles for the whole country of which we are citizens. Because when a servant has defended those same principles and has spoken of equality, of the same rights, of the same services for the whole of the country called Spain, you, or those who feel more or less close to you, have accused me of what you have been accused of today, of defending uniformity. And certainly we do not defend uniformity, we defend the maximum possible equality. And this is deeply progressive. It is profoundly progressive to defend it for Euskadi, but it is also progressive, Mrs Mendia, to defend these same principles for the whole of Spain. Make that extra jump, which is what you've been defending UPyD. In any case, I say, it is a step, but it is insufficient. It is not enough to reform the Historical Territories Act, it must be repealed. It is absurd that Euskadi, an autonomous community of only 2 million inhabitants, has four parliaments, has four governments, has three different fiscal policies, has 251 municipalities, has a Basque Finance Council, has a Tax Coordination Body, has a Tax Fraud Commission. This is nonsense, and sooner or later we'll have to change it. And we must change it not to defend any institution or to go against any particular institution, but to defend the progressiveism that we defend: maximum equality and better well-being for the citizens. Mrs Llanos, come down to the rostrum and talk about citizenship, don't tell us about the deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u10	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In answer, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u11	Thank you again, Madam President. Mr Maneiro, already cataloguing that of conservatives, progressives, moderns, ancients, really what is ancient is precisely that cataloguing. And what is old is that those who defend a certain institutional framework recognized in the Constitution, however, for defending that institutional framework we do not defend the citizens. I don't know the Foral Diputation of Bizkaia, of Álava and of Gipuzkoa to whom it provides the services, I don't know if they are on Mars and it is to the Martians to whom it provides those services. Because the Foral Diputación de Bizkaia, Álava and Gipuzkoa, like the Basque Government, like the municipalities, like the Government of Spain, is addressed to the citizens. That you want to change the institutional framework? You have said it clearly here, at least you say it clearly, and these gentlemen here, although they will speak in explanation of vote, surely also, because they want to overcome this current institutional framework. But don't worry, perhaps in law the current institutional framework does not disappear with this proposal of law, but in fact believe me that it does. Because the competitions are so distorted... We have a comparison of the two regulations, and thus annihilates the capacities and competences of the historical territories, with that centralizing and uniforming virus to which I referred, which practically and de facto disappear. And what you can't do is go, as many times the Socialist Party wants to go, from behind. When you want to do one thing, you have to go ahead, and if you want the current institutional framework to disappear, what you have to do is you don't want there to be any outlaws, but you don't want to keep them nominally and take away their power. That is so, without referring at all to the distribution of resources. I don't understand, apart from that Jacobin attitude the Socialist Party has... You intend to raise the Chamber and then 70%, as hitherto, to give it to the Basque Government. And now that the collection simply manages it, they collect it, but they cannot say how it has to be collected or how it can be regulated, because that is the responsibility of the Basque Parliament. Look, I'm not gonna tell you why it's so rude, but that's what it's called putting on the bed. Because here they do the work others and then the distribution is done by the Basque Parliament, in contravention, because if the Basque Parliament decides, it is the Constitutional Court that contravenes. I will tell you that it states in the judgment I referred to in 1988 that what has to be done is consensus, which has to be agreed. That an institution cannot itself determine the agreement on the distribution of resources, but that there must be a consensus. And what is intended here is for the Basque Parliament to have the last word, that is, not by agreement, but in the Basque Parliament. You were talking about equality among citizens. Of course, the position of the Socialist Party is inconsistent. Because when we were debating the Economic Concert here a few days ago, Mr Pastor said that equality is confused with uniformity and that the equality of citizens' rights can be perfectly maintained without these being absolutely uniform. Mr. Pastor, tell Mrs. Mendia. Because you have come here to talk about the equality of citizens and you have come to say that this can only be guaranteed if the specific and exclusive regulations themselves, according to the Statute and the Constitution, which can exercise the historical territories, have to be mimetic. Because if it's not mimetic, if it's not the same in the three territories, if it's not absolutely harmonized, of course, because you words, right, the Lazarus Carreter is already short. Because instead of cuts you make adjustments. And then, instead of matching, they talk about harmonising. But, basically, what you want is a mimetic regulation, and only with that mimetic regulation is the equality of citizens guaranteed. But say it clearly. And they say we haven't read the federal state's modification. But if anyone who has a lot of paternity in that reform that you present here, has come to say that the Concert does not belong in Federal Spain. Who has much of the paternity of the document that you have brought us here. Another thing is that you're telling us things on time, especially considering that there are elections around the corner, of course, you're taking the cards out when you're interested. Like when there was no crisis and then there was crisis. This is the same, now we say that the historical territories are maintained, no one knows for what, because they are deprived of their competences. And he says we don't respect what the Constitutional Court says. But if it is the Constitutional Court itself that says that this distribution must be made without prejudice to the guarantee of the foral regime and the inherent competences of the historical territories that the Statute itself determines. It is the Constitutional Court that says that the powers of the historical territories must be guaranteed, because it is enshrined in the Constitution. And you guys skip it. Look, if you don't have enough votes to change the Statute, if you don't have enough votes to change the Constitution, you don't want to do it through this rule. Because that's what you're trying to do: change, load, the current institutional framework. And we're not going to cooperate on it. I don't know what the Basque Nationalist Party is going to do. Similarly, as this great outlaw nation wants, he might agree to end the three outlaws. Because if not, the truth is that they had to take care of what Mr Esteban said when the General Budgets were presented, which precisely presented the amendment to the whole because it did not respect forality and did not respect historical rights. Well, I don't know. If you are going to vote in favour of this proposal today, the truth is that it respects forality much less than those General Budgets that voted against. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u12	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the dispute is over, the vote is made whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 63; counters, 10; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u13	Consequently, we consider the law's proposition. Next, we'll vote. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u14	Good morning, everyone. As you have seen, EH Collect has voted for the legal proposition presented by the Social Party, the law of the institutional organisation. Today EH Collect agreed to the discussion, and agreed to open the door. Yes, this assent is not only because we wish to treat of our internal organisation. That's not just because we want to limit this discussion to the legislature. It's time for us to re-establish and resume our institutional organization. But not in the auto-generacy to reproduce our inner organisation, but in the complete independence of which our organization is to begin to design. We wish to treat of the internal organisation, rather than of the institution of future organizations, and to acknowledge the right of determining it to the people. In the 25th of November 1983, 32 years ago, in the discussion of what was then called the Law of the All-American Society of Autonomy, and of the Relations of the People of Legends, the High Court said: "The institutions of a people, like their history, are not performed one day. They advance, and in the day, together with experience, they may and must receive variation. And the desire to stop the history of a people by petrification of its institutions, and to reflect on the political and social conditions which surround those institutions, may be as bad as to ignore even an iconacstatic spirit." At that time, a law which regulated our internal organisation was necessary to give an effective answer to the wants of the people. Thirty-two years later, some want to petify internal discussion. But to collect the Basque People, in order to give an effective answer to the questions which are now subject to the citizens, it is necessary that we re-examine our model of organization with the Spanish State. And in order to organize a new political and social model, we need all tools, all of them, in our hands, that is to be near the state of politics and society that surrounds us. I'll give you an example about the legal proposal. It may be important to have a voice and decision in the matters which the council of the United States imposes on them in the Financial Council, as the Social Party proposes in the legal proposition. If this be important, it is essential that when the decisions are made in this council, they may be able to make such decisions as we have not at present, with the utmost powers of taxation. So that either you propose, or the Socialist Party proposes to-day the discussion, well, but it may be an argument that remains a short-legged one, because we suppose that the proposers propose an effective internal organisation to the people. And this is not only effected by altering the law of the Historical Lands of the present day. This discussion will be of use, but, in order to obtain the whole purpose, about external organisation, that is to say, with the Spanish State about the model of organization we want from the Basque Country, we think it necessary to excite the discussion. And so ad intra is a controversy, but without forgetting that ad extra controversy is necessary. And when we discuss the discussion, we can't forget that these discussions in the social situation of today are not only to be given in the closed distractions or in the four walls of this Parliament, but to share the people. When the state, which is the foundation of our present institutional organization, was admitted 36 years ago, the citizens had a right to confirm it. If we want to update the clock in our history, we have to make the right of confirmation. Finally, we've told today to open the doors to the discussion of our institutional organization. Soon, more or less in February 2016, we'll have a chance of opening the door half open. Let's see if EH Collect has the same attitude as other groups today. That the debate on the Historical Territories Act should not become a sham that they do not want to go further, that the necessary debate on our internal organization should not be used as an excuse not to discuss our organization with the outside world.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u15	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Mr. Zurrill, who represents the eulogy team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Mr. Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. As you can see, the Eubertians have voted for the consideration of the parliamentary groups. In fact, as well as the criteria given by my friend, and as our team and president have more than once expressed it, we have no difficulty in reaching this subject. Consequently we do not refuse to reflect deeply on the institutional organization of the Euskal Autonomy Eres. What is more, precisely in this legislature, in which an integral analysis of the entire Basque institutional framework is taking place in Parliament, on the one hand with the Duplicity Paper, and on the other with the Self-Government Paper. The debate on the Basque municipal bill, which will culminate in the Basque institutional architecture, is also taking place, which expressly includes the partial amendment of Law 27/1983, the Law on Historical Territories, through its first final provision, concerning the participation of municipalities in the Basque Finance Council; or also the partial amendment of Law 3/1989, on Harmonization, Coordination and Fiscal Collaboration, with its fourth final provision, which also deals with the proposed law submitted by the Basque Socialists. The two bills adopted this week by the Governing Council should also be mentioned here: transparency, citizen participation and good governance, and the organisation and functioning of the Basque public sector, with the aim of tackling the renewal and modernization of the Basque public administration. Therefore, in this context it does not seem justified to speak in this matter of inaction, either by this House or by the Basque Government. With this panorama, we do not understand the rushes that have entered some, and the rushes are not good counselors. Furthermore, in view of the fact that the past legislature, when led by the Government, did not include the reform of the Historic Territories Act in its legislative calendar. On the other hand, and given the doubts that seem to arise about the effectiveness and efficiency of the institutional model with which we provide ourselves with Basques and Basques, it is fair to point out once again the good results achieved. The current Basque institutional structure, with its strengths and weaknesses, has in recent decades endowed Basque citizenship with important standards of well-being and prosperity, much higher than those of the Spanish state's average as a whole and above even European standards. And all this has been achieved despite the repeated failure to comply with an organic law such as the Statute of Gernika, leaving a number of transfers pending to pass the hands of the Autonomous Community, and we can imagine what that degree of effectiveness and efficiency would be. Having said that, and in relation to the current text of that bill, we have to express our reasonable doubts about the content and the lack of sufficient consensus to be able to address the reform that the Socialist Group is proposing. First, we believe that a comprehensive reform of Law 27/1983 and such a substantial reform of Law 3/1989 as would entail the adoption of the current text of this proposed law should be subsequent to a statutory reform, and in any case it would seem more logical and prudent to undertake this process once the conclusions of the self-government presentation are known and always with the greatest possible political and institutional consensus. Secondly, we believe that some of the contents of the bill, as drafted today, do not respect the institutional guarantee of forality and the intangible core of it, derived directly from the first additional provision of the Constitution, as defined not by the Basque Nationalist Party, but by a consolidated jurisprudence of the Constitutional Court. Thirdly, in our view, the current wording of the proposed law could also be contrary to the Gernika Statute, since very important parts of the regulation it seeks could only be addressed in a reform of the Statute of Autonomy and not through an ordinary law such as the one proposed. And finally, fourthly, we believe that some of the contents that appear in the current wording would enshrine a subordination of the historical territories to the common institutions of the Autonomous Community, which would mean a complete and radical change in the institutional model of the country currently in force, for which there does not seem to be enough consensus and which, moreover, as we said earlier, should be addressed, in any case, through a reform of the Statute of Autonomy and always with respect for the constitutional regulation of historical rights. However, and despite all these safeguards, the Basque Nationalist Group is not going to prevent the debate on this initiative in this House, considering not only that we are open to any modification of the current institutional framework, provided that the rules of the game are respected, but also because we are in favour of dialogue and agreement as a basic political tool for public action. Our approach is therefore very clear, unambiguous: yes to the debate, yes to its consideration, but as far as the current content of the proposal is concerned, many legal and political cautions, as we have already expressed. And in conclusion, we expect the same attitude when other profound reform institutions are planned, and therefore we hope, without consent, that the search for discussion and harmony will be enabled. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u17	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Second point on the subject list: "Momology, introduced by the members of the American legislature of the American Mount Carmelus Barrius Barroja, a member of the Popula, had been introduced as soon as possible to regulate the housing corporations. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a proposal. Mr. Barrio, who represents the Potion of Basque Groups, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari, Councillor, good morning. This motion tabled by our group, which I am presenting, starts from the question raised in the previous plenary session, in the last full session of control, on the regulation of housing cooperatives, but goes beyond that. It also starts from the Government's own legislative calendar, the initial calendar of 2013, its update in 2015, and also starts from other actions of the Basque Government, as is the communication made by the Department of Employment and Social Policy in relation to the social economy in 2014. This motion is also based on the very statements made by the Councillor for Employment and Social Policy at the time, Mr Aburto, and also on the recently appointed Director of Social Economy, Mrs Ubarretxena. And above all this motion draws from the needs of the sector and from the needs to order and regulate, and to innovate in regulation, and to adapt to the new times, in something as important as this model of social economy, emblematic and to some extent exemplary, albeit with exceptions, of that way of generating employment and generating economic wealth. This motion seeks to help the Government, which is working on a bill that will have to be sent to this House. And we are talking about the cooperative bill, which exists in the draft and which is a bill that we understand between us that it has to be, and it has to be, and to some extent it is also in the conception that the work that is being carried out through the draft itself is at present, it is a bill that has to be necessary, that is timely, that is useful or that will be useful, that will be modernizing that sector of the social economy that are cooperatives, and that will also be clarifying, because it seeks to unify, seeks to give a general dimension to the regulation of cooperatives in this case, that is a need that the Government itself has already identified. Moreover, when the Basque Government approved the timetable, which it has maintained, although the dates have changed, it was already talking about the main purpose of regulating a new law on cooperatives. The basic reason, said that calendar of the legislative draft, is "the recasting of the various legal texts that have been amending Law 4/1993 for reasons of systematicity, ease of identification and use of the current norm". It also said that "additional harmonization work is needed for the consistent interpretation of the legal body or clarification, in other cases, in relation to what cooperatives are, their internal government, all those issues that affect". It also said that some aspects of infringements and sanctions will be innovated. We were also talking about the new cooperatives, housing co-operativeism, what we were talking about recently, but also other expressions of co-operativeism that are poorly regulated in the current legislation and that certainly need changes. This legislative timetable initially set the date for the submission of this bill, as it was considered a priority, in the first half of 2014. Things have changed. The next legislative calendar already differed in a unrealistic way, if one wants to pass such a bill in a House like this, which already knows the regular time of regulation of such a bill, complex and important, it already differed its submission in the first half of 2016. Not on 1 January, no, well advanced the semester of 2016, as the government itself has made public on its website in Irekia and which, of course, states that this Parliament would collect a cooperative bill in March or April, and that, because we all know that the legislature will hypothetically conclude after the summer, would prevent that bill, which of course is necessary, from becoming a law. Also in 2014 the Basque Government drafted a communication that sent to this Parliament, a communication that we have not yet discussed well, because the communications are usually discussed, but it will depend on their processing in committee, we will certainly be willing to discuss it when necessary, as we have discussed other communications that we have demanded of the Government in previous legislatures on social economy. But, that very communication sent by the Government also spoke of the need, and in particular in the conclusions and initiatives to promote the cooperative sector and the social economy, spoke of the exact wording of an amendment to the Basque Cooperatives Act in force in 1993. "The basic reason for the draft legislation is the recasting," said the draft, the Government's own communication, "the recasting of the various legal texts that have been amended by Law 4/93. "Harmonisation" again referred to the necessary harmonisation, "and consistent interpretation of the legal body". There will be innovations in some areas relating to infringements, the inspection function, the role of the Higher Council of Cooperatives, new forms of cooperativeism, specific aspects and transparency. That is the fundamental element of why we demand that law; that law that has to be important, that whether it comes in February or March or April is not going to be a law, and that is a very serious thing. This will be part of a breach by the Basque Government of what must be conducive to the debate on these issues and on such fundamental issues as these. The draft law on cooperatives in Euskadi is now, as the Councillor has told us, and we were told in other parliamentary initiatives, at a stage of government information, analysis and legal reports. The Government says that "it will not be until 31 December the conclusion of the debate", of the internal debate held by the Government on this issue, having already had a draft working for a long time. "Between 1 January 2016 and 28 February 2016 the draft will be at the conclusion stage and after that period the Governing Council will approve the corresponding draft to be sent to Parliament." We're talking about April. March will be consumed in the corresponding certifications of the government agreements, if it is the last day of February, that will not be. The approval of the preliminary draft, the publications, the referral to Parliament, the publication in this Parliament... we are no longer talking about March, we were talking about April. If a bill in this House is introduced in April, it is impossible to pass a law, it is impossible to become a law. And that's gonna be a breach. It is clear that if the government approves the preliminary draft on very early dates of the first half of 2016, however much will be put into this Parliament, it will be impossible to rigorously analyse and adopt a legal text in Parliament, as the legislature will not endure enough. The legislature after the summer, we already know it's over, or even in the same summer. That is, it is clear that in order to ensure the adoption of such a law in conditions, the preliminary draft must be submitted to Parliament before the end of the current year. In order to secure the passage of a bill and to be able to work during the first half of 2016, it is necessary to present it already, which will be presented at least in the coming weeks, next month or throughout December. It is a regulation, that of cooperatives, important; it is a necessary regulation. And the Basque Government must make every effort to ensure that processing with temporary and material sufficiency. Otherwise, we are not going to believe the will of the Basque Government in relation to the necessary modification, that need for recasting, that need for harmonization that the Government itself has established for cooperatives as a necessary issue. We're not gonna believe this. Let's understand you don't want to pass a cooperative law. That's the point. That is why we have tabled this motion, in addition to what we discussed in the previous inquiry, which was an example of why a new law on cooperatives, which were housing cooperatives, should be introduced. We discussed in the inquiry with Mr Toña the other day how different sources have been informed that there is an important boom in housing cooperatives in Euskadi, we see the need for control elements and normative figures. Certain alarms have been detected that there is a need to regulate, that there is a need to establish legal rules in relation to this emerging form of social economy. In addition, housing cooperatives, with the social role they play, have recently adopted the Housing Act in this Parliament. In addition, a report by the Basque Housing Observatory states that housing cooperatives can be an effective and efficient model for the promotion of quality housing. It also notes that there is a high level of ignorance among the cooperative partners. We are going to give the cooperative partners, not just the housing partners, but the others, elements of knowledge of cooperatives, elements of control of cooperatives, elements of cooperative governance, elements of transparency and participation, that is what we want to give with a new law on cooperatives. And that's the fundamental element, that's what we've been talking about. This increase in cooperatives, housing and other cooperatives; this need for regulation; the alerts that have been opened in the Government for the control of cooperatives. We need to talk about that in 2008 only one in 20 homes was cooperative. In 2014, one in three already operates through housing cooperatives. In 2014 350 cooperative societies were created to build in Euskadi, where more in Bizkaia. The Euskadi Higher Council of Cooperatives has half of the consultations on housing cooperatives. Well, we have to regulate them. The Basque Government's Housing Observatory itself speaks of the need to regulate them for legal certainty. In addition, the draft of what this preliminary draft law has to be speaks of where the most innovation has been made, with respect to housing cooperatives, transport cooperatives and other cooperatives to which the Government also fills its mouth when it talks about them, which are junior cooperatives, in relation to training. Well, those have to be regulated, too. And that is why such a bill is so necessary, which stimulates job creation, which stimulates the economy in that form of social economy that cooperatives are. I'll finish. The draft law on cooperatives in the Basque Country speaks very clearly about the needs, why, why is this legal norm, this new law on cooperatives necessary? The need to recast the above-mentioned texts, the 1993 law has been amended by certain texts and circumstances, imperative and imponderable, also by the European trajectory and by the needs of adequacy. We have to do that and we have to change what needs to be changed. We know that in this law that comes from cooperatives there will be things that basically support what was the law of 1993, but there are many issues that have to do with the cooperative government, with the cooperative government, with the status of the partners., we have already seen examples, with the need for transparency to know, to know the internal functioning of the cooperative, that it is necessary to transfer to the law. Well, that is also reflected in the draft explanatory memorandum for a future cooperative law. Solving the obsolescence of certain elements, the cost, the difficulty of implementation, strengthening the regulatory autonomy adapted to each cooperative project, revitalizing the democratic and participatory functioning of the management of cooperatives, of the government of cooperatives, are basic elements, are important elements to give an acceleration to this form of social economy, in this case, which needs better controls, which needs a more clarified role of the Higher Council of Cooperatives, which needs to really clarify the functions of sanctioning and inspection, which have not worked in the 1993 Law in relation to processes and cooperative actions. It is quite clear that, in this regard, we are talking about a need, from the point of view of what needs to be regulated, but we are talking about an obligation that the Government has, a commitment that the Government has, that it cannot fulfil in April 2016, because it would be non-compliance. In April 2016, bringing a bill of these characteristics to Parliament would be in breach of its obligation, and the need it has identified to reform and make a clear, new, useful, innovative, modern law. And that is why my group presents this motion, following the interpellation in relation to housing cooperatives, but following the objective need of all cooperatives. And I say again, of legal certainty, of the role of the partner. We have already seen what has happened with Fagor fundamentally, and with the attitude and faces that have left many partners not to know the cooperative government, not to know the decision-making processes, not to be transparent, not to be involved. Well, let's resolve in this legislature that this economic catastrophe has passed, which has affected the social economy and the cooperative model, let's try to solve it. If the government does not bring the law before the end of this year, we will not give it a solution. That is why our motion urges the Basque Government to "present at this session the draft law on cooperatives in Euskadi, so that the normative needs of this form of social economy, where, among other things, housing cooperatives are integrated, can be debated and approved by the House in this legislature". We have already transferred to the Government as a political group our effort, our ability to be constructive, to appreciate positively that draft we have been able to know. Well, if the Government is to play its part, we have given it a endorsement that we are prepared to make the necessary effort to adopt the normative text. So get on with it, pull over and bring the bill to this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u19	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Faraway, the Eubertarian, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u20	Ladies of Parliament, chief of the department, members of the legislature, good morning to all. It's not a foreign phenomenon in the Basque Country. The Basque People have developed a number of economic activities in their history in their corporate support. In their activities we might take for examples of the neighbourhood, or of flowers more fatigued, like the organized profit of the fishing craft or common soil, which became the traditional economic activity of euskal. The arrival of the industrial revolution greatly diminished the importance of these practices and institutions, producing at the same time new models of economic activities performed in the cooperation of the co-operative structure, as well as the co-operative organs of consumption, or even the co-operatives of an industry like the eebarian Alpha. All these experiences are suspended by the beginning of the Civil War in 1936. The cooperative experience of Euscal after the war rests, partly on the cooperative model produced as an association, with the origin of a special environment, and, like an important element, which is reflected in the socituary reality of Eucata, the simple reality which constitutes the germ of this movement by transforming it into a determined complement of the Euscal economy. That which may be taken as a direct guide to the economic system of autonomous reality and marketing reality, which constitutes its profits in general in the double aspect of the members of the society. For all that has been said before, one of the General Laws of Merkata, the States of Guernica in the Company, in the 1023 article, having fully acknowledged the jurisdiction of the Basque Autonomy of the Elegalia, in the 10 Laws of the Elegant Party, have had one of the points of support and support from the members of the Companariats of the Companian Party. Having always considered the peculiarity and importance of the co-operative movement, and for this very reason, every moment during these 35 years, we have tried to maintain, as it were, the laws of cooperation, which were adapted to the contexts of time's circumstances. Thus the change of a legislation produced from political and social precedents was already exceeded by the whole fidelity and defence of the cooperative principle of the international alliance, the whole fidelity of the ethical and eoperative application of Eucarean movement, strengthening the autonomy, and, at the time when it was present, it might be observed that the laws of 11982 were to demand greater complexity and complexity of life, as well as the development of the experimental formulas, and even the development of the experiments, would be necessary to prevent the application of the application of the matter, and to answer in this manner, as it was necessary to the question of the law of Koptivative. Later on, he assumed a complete and incontestable process of the Copoperative legislation in the state, when the autonomys, which had jurisdiction in what part of the community, and with it the technical regulation of social social society, and the necessary reference to an earlier and later date, was to adapt to the directory of the European Economical Society, when, in general, a thorough change of the law of commercial and societætae, had occurred, and our cosmicism with its internal reality, was necessary to the investigations of a fair, and then to the necessary application of a higher and more thorough competition, a new law was necessary. And this follows from the 24th of June, the 4/1993 law of the Euscadian Kooperaties, which is still at present at the present day. But now that the past is connected with the present and the future, now there are other challenges opposite. The other is, to combine and integrate several changes into one rule of text. As a democratic and solidarian alternative to company, to illustrate the basic elements of the effectiveness and value of this kind of society, for example, of members responsible for social debts. Or the new arrangement of the laws of the most exact kinds of organisation, not only to be enabled, but also to support its adaptation, the organic and functional cooperative constitution, such as the cooperative housing and transport. As far as the co-operative area is concerned, the current legal, economic, and institutions of the administration are concerned, the establishment and control of the administration, which legitimately adapts to the peculiar character of these social interests, is to be identified, strengthened, and guaranteed, as a social society, to adapt the progress of the eustantical co-operats. We must insert into the principal lines of socitations, which vary constantly and rapidly in evolution; for instance, in the pleading of corporate governments. We see the necessity of enabling the auto-regulation of certain areas, either through the case of the States, or within the same cooperative case. And since we find that the coherence of the rule, and the improvement and improvement of the legal improvements which accompany it to its interpretation and practical applications, is necessary and worth a new legislative law of the community. For this reason, we assert our conviction and all our will, and our will, to-day, of a new legislative. And as the whole of our correction says, "Ah! We're asking him to bring this bill to the Chamber as soon as possible. Besides, what is the state of today's sector, in answer to the question of the October 2 of Mr. Barri, Mr. Toña chief, according to what he said from where I am. The sector is supposed to approve of the bill, but he's afraid to transfer it to the legislature. So we call all the political teams in the Chamber to make this possible. The moment is difficult, delicate, and above all dispute we are all needed. Our will, which I represent, is absolute, and lies at the table, even at the beginning of the next session, if there be will, which we may have for the end of legislation, this law. This kind of economy of ours and even of our personality, the economy of our separation, which is once more the refreciative world in order to continue to be the tools of a man who knows how to do manufactures, finances, and services. In a word, let it be adapted to the hinges that are visible in front of them. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u21	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Passing on the line of uncorrected teams, Mistha, she won't speak. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Ichaso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u22	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, our group has not tabled an amendment to this initiative, with due respect, Mr Barrio, we have not received sufficient consideration. First of all, this motion is exactly the same as one that was approved tomorrow a year ago, a year's clock. A motion that was supported by the nationalist bench and that raised the same thing that it does today: that it come for this exercise. Which we already feel is impossible, because the intervention of the spokesman of the Nationalist Group already did so for the following year, and possibly the forecasts that you have announced in this rostrum are given. And we don't deserve to consider the initiative, not because we don't share with you the concern and sensitivity for the social economy, but because all these clarinets and trumpets that announce this law of cooperatives are to talk about a law that doesn't really present great news either. Yes, in the explanatory statement of the draft that was sent to us at the time, there is indeed a lot of prosopopeia and a lot of semantic amplitude. But if we go to the concrete, we will see that he tells us in that same explanatory statement: "General provisions. The concept of a cooperative is still being formulated. Establishment of cooperatives, remains unchanged. Registration of cooperatives, effectiveness and principles are unaltered. The regulation of society is maintained in the current terms. The social organs, the developments that develop are of specific aspects, although the general assembly remains in its configuration. It's still... " I mean, of course there's some update, it would be missing more, after all this time and the things that have happened, how there won't be. But you really now take the hanger of housing cooperatives to bring in... Yes, you've previously brought a... if I don't deny you, Mr. Barrio, your tenacity, and I also celebrate it, I think a parliamentarian in the opposition has to be and has to be. But you see what these appeals are for. I want to help Mr Urrutia, whom I warmly welcome to the plenary debates and whom I wish him success in his performance, not as you do, Mr Barrio, by saying that he will help the government bring the law as soon as possible, because he will not bring it. We are going to help the Government by not supporting its motion, so as not to aggravate the list of non-compliances that this Government is amassing. So, precisely in order to encourage this relationship of non-compliance to be added, we will vote against this point. But I am saying this, not because it does not seem important to us to discuss the social economy, what is the phenomenon of cooperatives, etc. But it is this motion that brings here today, which replaced a GNP that talked about the same thing, that is, bring the cooperative bill to this House. However, what has been brought is a draft for a long time. And in particular, now that we are talking about housing cooperatives, the only new thing is that a lawyer is required to be an adviser, because the other issue of the manager, to ensure in real estate operations such, in a reading if you want superficial, but for me enough, is quite discretionary, there may or may not be. In the explanatory statement he says it seems necessary, but then he does not impose the obligation either, he says that "on the assumption that". We therefore believe that the draft that has been sent to us here will have time, if any, to deal with it in its adoption process, with the more technical issues of that draft and what amendments can be made. But so raw, what has come to this House has not really set us up, it has not aroused great emotions, and, moreover, it is a promise of these that the Government is making there for tomorrow. Well, bring it when you have to bring it, we will already deal with it with enough interest, of course, because we do discuss it with you, Mr. Barrio, which is an issue of interest. We do not believe that the proposals that contain this draft, or what it should be if the project that comes here is not modified, that say great solemn things. And therefore, given that we say what we say here, let us agree what we agree, this will be of no use, it is because we have decided directly not to support the motion, not because we do not understand its purpose, but because, in fact, it has been sufficiently demonstrated that it does not serve much. And that in any case, for that journey there was no need for coffers, because the novelties presented by the draft also do not seem to be going to move the cooperative world.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Mr. Isas, the representative of the EH Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u24	Mrs. President of the Parliament, Mr. Toña, Mr. Chief. In the course of this discussion, I'm asking you to bring this bill about the co-operatives, to discuss it at this meeting, and if you can, in order to accept it. The Basque Country agrees with that request, Mr Barriio, we agree. He's known to have a bill of law records and he's talked to company and college experts. Maria Ubarachena, the director of the Economy of Society, presented to us the plan of the bill of law in the parliament at this very place. Then he introduced us again to the new director Jesus Alfredo Ispizua Zuazua. We haven't heard from him since, and here he's made the course of the bill which Mr. Carmelo Barri has mentioned. Apart from what I said, we don't know exactly why I'm not in the least aware of the law of coincidences, even if it's rejected. It may be because of the political opportunity, which is not convenient for him; it may be because he has other priorities; or it may be because he has finally seen that he has to change his project. An excuse for an excuse, a crisis that strikes us at this legislation, a crisis we are still suffering, has sufficient reason to reform our old-fashioned Cooperative Act of the 1993s of the year. We cannot forget that he has exposed crisis, as has been said, to the weakness of our economy and the weakness of our co-operatists. What has been said is enough to discuss and assent as quickly as possible the new law of the cooperatives. On the other hand, it is one of the reasons why the Conoperative Acts of the Conoperatives ought to be regulated by the Conoperative Acts, of course, but in our opinion, and as has been said, it is a secondary reason. The housing is one of the most serious problems of many citizens, it is true, and as we have mentioned the housing manager, in the opinion of the EH Collector, the case is not solved by the co-operatives. In order to solve the case of the housing, for example, this legislature had discussed and accepted the Housing Act. Mr. Barri, you yourself mentioned that housing law in the interpelation. II. The nature of this law. The inscription of the chapter states that "it is a subjective right to occupy a decent and proper household life." The law is acknowledged to every citizen to have a right to act as a subjective right, as a settled housing, to those who have not a decent and proper dwelling, if they have no means of obtaining a residence. The law itself explains, at the third point of additional regulations, that independent associations have been used to promote or acquire the beds of habitations. There was a time when poor economic skills used the organization of home-operatives for a vital property, a housing, a housing property. House-operatives have been the means of satisfying essential wants, not of creating jobs, nor even the tool for reforming economics, were they not. Later on, as the result of the initial housing corporations, the co-operatives of the housing suspects were created. In these new co-operatives self-gestion was lost, which they intended to acquire. At the present day, in general, we can separate three class of housing cooperatives. The Building co-operatives, a device like the conoperatives for the promotement, that come and disappear while the houses are built. These co-operatives derive loans from financial institutions, and they impose financial security on citizens and citizens. In these classes of cooperatives, it is not generally used self-gestion. The co-operatives made by the workers would be in the second place, we could say co-operatives of social initiative. In some cases the unions create these cooperatives and maintain a certain autogestion model. Finally, the co-operative of the owners. This class of cooperatives is based on leaving use. It's the co-operative after construction and construction. This is the kind of cooperative, referred to in the draft of the bill of Copoperatives. We have mentioned before in the law of Housing, that the successor is established in this additional institution: "In spite of the facilities of auto-sustrating, or in other associations, for the purposes of assigning homes and attachments to the members of the community, the private associations without any intention of profit may be able to encourage or procure a set of housing in a single juror, in order to satisfy the wants of their fellow-creatures, if they are associations of this end." Then they are mentioned, I will not read, because you think that all the members of the legislature will know you, he mentions the characteristic of obtaining a decent housing establishment, which they are to have. We protected the Housing Act like others. And especially in this section, we think it's more than private property, by means of this co-operative co-operative, encouraged in the basis of the use of it, to give a solution to the question of the housing... We didn't dictate correction on principle. And we won't underestimate the interpenetration of Mr. Carmelo Barri, and the consequence of his motion. It seems to us here that he is a member of the whole legal law, and that he seems to us right, and that we agree in general. We don't think it's a connection that's made, the law of coincidences and the reading of the housing rights on the side of the housing rights is questionable, but it's not a question of principle to ask if you're mad at the time of the meeting, because it was a commitment to bring the bill to the bill of law to the law. Lastly, the sketch, whether good or bad, that has been introduced to us, belongs to this Chamber to discuss, to improve what is possible, and if it is so bad, the legislature ought to be turned back. It seems to us, and at first I have mentioned the crisis, and the crisis we suffer, requires, even in the case of the cooperatives, to discuss in this Chamber what solution can be given to the co-operative case. This is where the gaps have been mentioned and Mr. Carmelo Barrio has mentioned them. And there have been also some mention of the deficiencies in the co-operative course. We shall defend by principle the proposition which is made with our vote, in order to bring the bill of law to the Chamber, and, if possible, discuss it before the end of the legislation, and to accept it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u25	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Passing on the answers, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u26	Thank you, President. I thank Mr. Urrutia for the review. Most of the time of her intervention has devoted her to making a historic walk of co-operativeism. He mentioned the first movements; he mentioned Mondragon, Eibar and co-operativeism in those localities; he spoke of the Community's exclusive competence; he also spoke of the cooperative movement in Euskadi as a reference element. And he has also made a review of the legislation in Euskadi regarding cooperatives; the 1982 Act and the 1993 Act and their evolution. But now we're in new needs. I mean, that's okay, to identify what the historical, economic, social process has been, but you need to overcome precisely all that historicism and project yourself into the future. And that's what we understood that it could be that new law and that it will be that new law, and that the needs are much more important than those that I believe Mr Itsasus himself detects. But, in relation to what you were telling me, it is the new challenges that are there, that is, to reaffirm that there are normative needs that have been identified as important. And besides, you have talked about the sector and some fears probably or some position. We must not be afraid of the sector, Mr Urrutia, we must think about the partner, the cooperative partner, that is what we must think about. And to that I think that is focused the effort of or at least the spirit of what the new regulation has to be, in addition to in view of the failures, in view of the issues that have passed. And I mentioned to you earlier the matter of what happened in Fagor and how we here in this Parliament have had the representatives of the partners talking about the lack of transparency, not a democratic government, the lack of information. Well, I have also instrumentally brought up the reports of the Basque Housing Observatory, where they talked about the disinformation of the partners of housing cooperatives. For that is the fundamental element of this law, the partner, not so much the sector or not so much the enterprise, but the partner, which is the fundamental element, is where the cooperative principles are anchored, in this form of generating employment and generating economy and generating wealth. That is where we wanted to understand that a new law will give more accommodation, more clarification, more transparency, more democracy. And of course, it is a problem of will. That is, if the bill is brought in in March, it is that there is no will to approve it, that is to say, that is the fundamental element of what you are talking about. Indeed, you have also identified as me the needs, the need for recasting, the need for harmonisation, clarification, adaptation. For this will in Parliament is realized in time, in time when a law can be passed and debated, and thinking, of course, again, in the partner, that is the fundamental element. And I have already told you before that our group will be proactive in relation to those needs of the law. We have identified the issues. I thank Mr. Isasi for his attitude towards our motion. We did not want to talk so much about housing cooperatives, because housing cooperatives are going to have a special development, certainly not so much about the substance of the housing issue, where housing cooperatives have their role, as well as other companies or institutions. But, in any case, I believe that you have connected with the need for reform of the law on cooperatives, a new law on cooperatives and that that is the fundamental thing. Indeed, housing cooperatives, such as transport cooperatives, such as junior cooperatives, are cooperatives that were poorly regulated and now need better regulation. Well, that's also what this new bill is about. And to Mr Urrutia to say that this will is demonstrated by bringing the bill before the end of the year. I, Mr Itxaso, will certainly like the Basque Nationalist Party, because Mr Itxaso will not require the government to bring the bill before the end of this session, to put a cap on the government. I don't think it's right, but it's in your judgment and that's it. It seems that Mr Itxaso if he does not present the questions, they are not relevant; if Mr Itxaso does not present his parliamentary initiatives and the others, they are not relevant, they are not important. I've seen you, Mr. Itxaso, as a pessimist. More than a pessimist, I've seen him as a passerby. And I, Mr. Itxaso, assure you that I have presented this motion with the best of spirits. This motion, which, I say again, is aimed at the cooperative partners, which we have seen in this legislature how the great pagans have been in the crises of the model sometimes and the lack of regulation in relation to information, with participation, with transparency, with good governance within cooperatives, as we have seen in Fagor and as some report has shown us. And then the needs of new regulations, housing cooperatives, transport cooperatives, junior cooperatives, the democratization of the cooperative model. And besides, Mr Itxaso, you in Gipuzkoa, very well, very well carried, approved at the end of the previous foral legislature a foral rule of social economy, which we support at the Gipuzkoa General Councils. For that impulse to the social economy that you urged and with our vote approved the Gipuzkoa General Councils, connects perfectly with a modernization, clarification and an impulse to a new cooperativeism that has the partner as the center of the system and not so much the company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u27	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Eubertarians represent the group, Sire Faraway, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u28	Eskerrik asko. I think the first thing I have to do is thank Mr Itxaso for his words. You don't know what I'm glad about the reception you're doing in this rostrum, and if it's worth it, you know that in what we've had occasion to meet, I've also sympathized with you. Mr. Barrio said I've made a historicist evolution. Yes, but look, Mr Barrio, all I was trying to do was to make known the evolution of a compromise, of a compromise that goes back a long way. A compromise where the parliamentary group I represent has always been and will be. Because, as I don't think anyone is missing, the sector is at a rather difficult and complicated time. And what it was about was a union between the past, the present and the future, where we were, are and will be. Fear of the sector?, who is afraid of the sector?, I am afraid of the sector?, the Basque Nationalist Party is afraid of the sector? None. It is the sector that I see as somewhat fearful of the information I have regarding the handling of this bill. So, I'm really afraid I don't know where there is. In my time in this House I have been able to observe something that those who know how to speak well say a mantra, which is that of always accusing the government or the parliamentary group that supports it of a sort of legislative paralysis, that everything is quiet, etc. Look, I'm not going to get into the departments I don't know about, but I think this is a matter – and don't misunderstand me what I'm going to say, please, because the compromise is there – this is a matter where if there was a breach, I don't think it would be reprehensible. Because I do not know if you realize that we are trying to legislate on a sector that has been about to fall and that has partially done so. Because with all due respect, when we talk about cooperatives or when we talk about social economy, we are not talking about the most honorable and dignified agricultural cooperatives that may be, for example, in the historical territory of Álava. We're basically talking about the Mondragon Group, and I don't think that's missing anyone. And that flagship of the cooperative and the social economy, and even of the entire Basque economy, that flagship has had an important blow on its bow. And obviously, before that, I believe that certain fears, prudence and words of the kind are the ones that really touch. I see that you are expressing a particular concern for the partner, Mr Barrio. But when he talks about the bill, he talks about the importance of transparency, communication, etc. I absolutely agree. What happens is that you do not realize that, for example, we have experienced and experienced situations as regards the cooperative partners that you do not mention, such as a very thorny issue, which can be very thorny in this bill, which is the responsibility of the cooperative partners in social debts. I think it's a lot more important or it's going to be a lot more thorny, because in the rest, in needs, in transparency, in communication and all this, I think we all agree. From the experience I have, I would say that the Basque Nationalist Party has never tried to legislate either to interfere or to interfere, but has always tried to legislate to push and to help. I have also seen him wanting to link the issue with the topic of housing cooperatives. Look, as the newest member of Parliament in this House I have had to read a lot, I have been able to find out that in the process of the Housing Act you have not dealt with any amendments on the need for housing cooperatives. And look, I recently read a quote from Winston Churchill saying that "where there is a will, there is a way." And I think if we have the will, we'll make the way. And I know that parliamentary procedures are often long and difficult. But perhaps we should all put on our side, Mr Barrio, and we should banish some bad habits that I have observed in some other way, such as asking for two time limits for the extension of claims at the time of the standard-setting phases in this house. If we all put on our side, I think it will be possible to do so. Finally, just a little review for Mr. Itxaso. He says it doesn't look like the law is going to impact much on the cooperative world. Well, the truth is that so that it doesn't impact much on the cooperative world, I'm seeing this cooperative world a little reluctant and fearful about the way the law is handled in this House. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u29	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Ichaso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u30	Mr. Barrio, I don't know if I've explained myself wrong. Of course, every initiative that comes here has a motivation and it seems to me as respectable as the ones that I can bring, of course, would be missing more. What happens is that the value of initiatives also depends, as you know, on the physical laws of supply and demand. You have already tabled this amendment for the second time, and it is good for me to acknowledge that it does well and that this tenacity and this insistence I employ also in those matters which concern me. What is happening is that, as I said in the previous speech, we believe it is useless. And in the end, it's not a passive attitude, it's an attitude of some rebellion. And he says, "We could have said yes." Of course, bring her in. But he's not coming. Then, to make agreements knowing that they are not going to be fulfilled, believe me that for that journey there is no need for saddlebags, as I say. You have focused the second part on the issue of partners. I've taken a quick note, which I know you're worried about the partners. All issues relating to cooperatives or the social economy, in general terms, seem to us to be important. And this is a debate that when it arrives, if it arrives, will logically have our intervention and our contributions and our analyses. But today we only have this draft. And it says: "The regulation of the legal position of the partners is maintained in the current terms, uniquely the statutory obligation", etc. "There is no alteration in the right of information of partners, access to relevant documentation, limits." "Neither does the obligation of any partner to keep secret," etc. What I want to say to you, Mr Barrio, is that of course there are some updates that will be of interest; man, because nothing has rained since 93 and things have certainly happened. What I want to say, and I say it to you too, Mr Urrutia, is that it is not an accusation of delay, it is that the facts are silly and speak for themselves. Look, when Mr. Barrio presented that motion last year, it was already a decaffeinated motion, because what he proposed was that he come in this exercise, which the counselor had already promised, therefore he did not drive or control, that is, he actually gave him some air, because the counselor had already said he was going to come. Well, look where the first semester of 2014. Then let him come when he has to. We will study it, work it and put everything on our side. Do not believe that there is an indolent attitude to this issue, let alone. What's going on is that it's not a tasteful dish to put yourself here great, brilliant, to declare and propose things knowing that the government is going to make a cucurucho with the motions. That's the reason. I don't know if I've explained myself wrong. I do not want to underestimate or underestimate the importance of your initiative and your motion. What I'm saying is that we at the time had a signed transaction with EH Bildu that raised in two points, that came for the first quarter of 2015 and we said, moreover, "well, and if it can't be, that the government adapts to a new legislative calendar its forecasts", which has not happened either.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u31	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u32	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Far away, your first debate has been very amusing, and we've heard of everything here. We have heard that the laws of demand and offer are physical laws, as Mr. Ichaso has said, and good humour and... And you, Mr. Faraway, have said that the sector crisis has been serious and that there is fear. And in this magazine we just received, the chief physician himself reports that the crisis has been affected by the cooperation of the Building and Loan, but... Well, you'll see and learn hyperbata and hyperbore... And often it's boring, but, well, it's funny for him. I'd like to communicate to Mr. Pello Sánche the edge of the border, to speak of the union, of the transcendent housing, and of the union. And when I speak of solidarity and co-operative, and talk of independence, I remember Catalonia. Catalonia, Catalan Republic, the motion introduced by Mr. Barrius with our vote will protect us because we believe that this legislature has the ability to make decisions, but because we believe that other nations have a full right to make a national law. And that's why I'm going to end my interference by saying "Visca Catalunyallure and Visca from Catalunia."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u33	Thank you, Mr. Isas. After the discussion, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Barrio Baroja's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 30; contraries, 43; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u34	As a result, the original selection text was not allowed. Next, we vote for the full rights of the US patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of the provinces 27; the contrary, 17; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 29.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u35	So the correction of the integer has been accepted. The third point in question: "Motion, introduced by Jon Azkue Manterola, members of the Basque Socialists, 188 of the International Organization of Job. About re-establishing the Fishing Word. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Azkue, it's your word to introduce and get out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u36	Egun on, president anderea, kideak. I would like to extend a special greeting to Juan Manuel Trujillo, president of the Section for European Fisheries Trade Unions of the ETF, of the European Transport Federation. Last Friday, October 30, we made an inquiry, in whose defense, you will remember, I began by recalling the tragedy in this case of a dead landing at sea. It was nothing more than the reality and the example that work in fishing is one of the jobs with the most accidents, with shipwrecks, with a very high sinestrality compared to other work activities. I also tried that my words were a touch of attention to society to avoid irrational conformism before these facts, because steps can be taken to avoid accidentality and its consequences, and not look elsewhere as if there was nothing to do. Each death, every accident, demands a more important attempt to stop the laborer from dying. We've got to report every death, and we have to focus on it so that no more workers die. Y quiero recordar que ayer mism moriían dos labororis en sanctum. This is achieved by regulating nuclear and strong labour regulations for workers, by putting in place means to prevent accidents, by preventive measures, by ensuring training and knowledge, with good conditions of employment, by combating fatigue, with suitable work centres, with decent work conditions, which prevent the death of more people in any area. It also said that this was what the other day presented as an inquiry and that this is what the Socialist Group is presenting today as a motion. A first-time approach to the working dignity of fishermen at the global level, through an instrument or convention of the International Labour Organization. The International Labour Organization, ILO, was established in 1919 as part of the Treaty of Versailles that ended World War I and reflected the conviction that social justice is essential to achieving universal and permanent peace. There was real recognition of the importance of social justice for the achievement of peace, in contrast to a past of exploitation of workers in the industrialized countries at that time. There was also an increasing understanding of the economic interdependence of the world, and the need for cooperation to achieve equality in working conditions in countries competing for markets. From the very beginning of the ILO, a resolution was adopted agreeing that issues relating to the socio-occupational conditions of seafarers should be discussed at specific meetings of the International Labour Conference. It was nothing more than recognizing its globalization than the rest of the sectors. The exclusion of fishermen from diaphanous regulation and the lack of collective bargaining required this ILO Fisheries Convention 188, because it provides a basic framework for shipowners' obligations, also pointing out obligations for governments to introduce rules into their respective legislation. Trade unions are working in each state, so that ILO Convention 188 is adopted as soon as possible. Progress in the European Union is timid in the existing Social Dialogue Committee. The adoption of this agreement is, as I said the other day, a tribute to the 30 million fishermen, men and women, who work in the fisheries sector. On 14 June 2007, the ILO adopted at its 96th meeting the Convention on the Work of Fisheries. This convention proposes an innovative and global approach in the context of globalisation in the maritime sector. The ILO Convention 188 covers everything that was included in the various ILO fisheries conventions. It was designed to ensure that all fishermen worldwide have decent working and living conditions, seeking to establish minimum acceptable standards to protect fishermen in all aspects of their work, which is, and we all know, a dangerous profession, in a sector in which artisanal enterprises and industrial fleets exist. In this sector, the convention responds to the challenges of globalisation, with a disparity in living and working conditions on board ships, as well as the application of safety and control rules on ships. For fishermen, the agreement does so, it establishes minimum standards of access to work in fisheries – minimum age, health fitness... – as well as rules for work itself, which includes from the contract of employment, which is very unknown in the sector, which must include the name of the shipowner, the post assigned on board, the amount of salary, the termination of the contract, medical coverage, holidays and social security. And a chapter on safety and health at work and the prevention of accidents at work, ensuring the basic training of crew members in this field. The minimum characteristics of accommodation on board and the guarantee of adequate food are also part of this agreement. The minimum supply on ships, i.e. the number of crew members and their qualification and the hours of rest are remarkable contents of the agreement. I would like to stress here a key to highlight the validity of the convention: the ability to control it is guaranteed, that is, compliance with it, to the administrations of the flag state of the ship or flag state, and, on the other hand, to the port state, which having ratified it, may require compliance with the convention to all ships arriving in their ports regardless of the flag that they fly and have ratified or not the states to which the flags represent the convention. The adoption and ratification of the same guarantees to fishermen decent working and living conditions, and presents to the shipowners the advantage, if they wish, of hindering social dumping, by walking towards fair competition on the basis of common and controlled rules, and rejecting those we call pirate ships, which also exist in fishing. To date, when a fishing vessel reaches a port, the maritime authorities could inspect the technical standards, which are authorized and regulated by the International Maritime Organization, i.e. the adequacy of certificates of machinery, bridge, lifeboats, etc. After the entry into force of the Convention, the living and contractual conditions of fishermen may be inspected. The European Union's fishing fleet consists of 86,185 vessels with 139,023 workers. The Spanish fleet has 9,635 boats with 36,145. Our fleet, the Basque, hardly has 211 ships, accounts for 2.19 % in the number of ships of the Spanish, but 20.93 of the total of the crude arching, and almost 35 % of the power with an average length of 28,29. It means that we have a good fleet, also close to the industrial, and also that it works in international waters. Despite the efforts of the ILO, little progress has been made in the ratification of Convention 188, and we believe that from our Community we have promoted ratification by the European states of the Convention, and logically starting with Spain. It will be launched when it has been ratified by ten states, eight of which must be coastal. The first EU country to ratify it was France, which less than 20 days ago referred the agreement adopted in its Congress and Senate in April. That's a big step for the French. I must announce that we have achieved at least three of the groups in the House, EH Bildu, Basque Nationalists and our Socialist Group, to agree on the wording of the motion. We would, however, like this House's vote to be unanimous. Because not only is the ratification of the convention a big step, but it also recognizes the need to encourage collective bargaining, which also in our fleet, in the Basque Country, shines for its absence. Indeed, we must pick up the glove, so that normality also enters into this activity that we so say admire. Because, in short, in Spain and in Euskadi we cannot offer ourselves as a model of an activity as long as we do not have agreements that guarantee decent conditions for fishermen, for farmers. The shipowners of our country, in this case I refer to our Basque country, and starting from the most industrial, those of freezer tuna and those of height, should set an example, negotiating and reaching agreement with trade union organizations. The Basque fleet will have a future when, in addition to believing in the economic viability of the activity and, therefore, building ships to be possible in our shipyards, young people see it as another work activity more normalized in the workplace. Creating jobs and making them attractive to our young people is an outstanding subject, which the adoption of the motion by all will certainly help to adopt it in the future. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u37	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Passing over the divisions which are set before them, the Representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Lazarus, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u38	Good morning, everyone. The fishing sector, like the farm sector, collapses in the last decades. The sea and the earth are naturally two distinct worlds, but the problems derived from this global world of ours are very similar. For the course of nutrients has no limit, and the monopolys of great corporations are marked by the agricultural and fishing policy of Europe, and their economic profits placed before everything else, of course. And in this sense we sell and buy food, carry and bring only goods, as the owners of the losers are fishermen, peasants, and people. As far as the environmental view is concerned, this environmental view is discussed here and there, but the practice shows that the race is always won by economic interest. And in this sense, the defor station, the contagion of land, water, and air, or the disappearance of several species of fish, does not matter, because it is important to draw out the profits of the moment. When I go to the fish-yard of my village, and look at the fish I have in front of me, I can rate if it's more cool or less insipid, but from that point on I can know little. You never know if that fish is fishing in the Gulf or the Indian Ocean. You never know if he's caught in a sea fishing or a fish cleaner or a picnic. You don't know what kind of instrument that was used for fishing, that is, 60% of the trapped fish in the net is thrown back into the sea, as a fishing industry does, or fishing has been fished using selective instruments. It cannot be known whether it has been thoroughly aggressive to the sea or bearable. You never know if that fish came to the Basque Country on a boat, on a plane or on a truck. You don't know how much that fish paid for fishermen, two, ten, twenty times less than we paid them. And how it is impossible to know whether the conditions of the fishermen have been slavery, or whether they have been in some degree worthy of their condition. And that's what interests the world-wide fishing system. that which lies behind the fish is entirely concealed, and given no information and judgment. This, in other words, is the interest of the great corporations, to increase their profits infinitely, to continue to be ignorant, and to persuade them that what is equal to environmental and health without social or economic criterion. In the opposite direction of the principle of feeding. A few stalls have recently begun to give us more information, and in that sense it seems to us an interesting way. This world-wide fishing system, of course, affects the working and life conditions of fishermen. Although the International Institute of Job admitted the Word Fishing, there are few who have considered it, and the fishermen' conditions are very bad in several places in the world. In the middle we have agreed that whoever comes first and foremost is that the legislature confirms the Fishing Word of the International Organization of Job and confirms the government of Madrid also. But even if that happened, it's a good idea to take steps in a few days, and we've got it in a sort of way: Because every fisherman has a collective contract, because there are bass and high sub-relations without collective compacts, because to penetrate into the safety of his work, being of his own nature hard work, is obliged to give steps around the walls of labour, because the fishermen have a right to take a holiday, because in some cases contracts are interrupted, and the fishermen go to the Parsonage, and the right to rest, he asks also for a few days' rest, because it increases the risk of laboring; and to have a minimum pay every month, which is not filled at the present day, because it is due to the syndicate parts. This is the one that's been picked up. In the right direction, it's a step. And now, from now on, we'll have to keep track of this. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u39	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u40	Mahaiburu anderea, legebiltzarkideok, egun on guztioi. Apart from other reasons, I will be very brief. And it's not an empty expression of content, of those that say "I'm going to be brief" and run out of time until I put the marker in red, no. Because this motion was already debated in the form of an inquiry only fifteen days ago and I am not going to rekindle the one that, although very important in the background, is a tedious and very technical debate. And we are, as the Government said, in accordance with the content of Convention 188. We are, as the Government has said, in line with improving living conditions and security of the settlements. And we agree, Mr Azkue, with your motion, except that in point 2 we have understood more logically that this Parliament should address the Spanish Government directly and not through the Basque Government, which with its proposal we have become a mere intermediary, a co-worker. And that is degradation, and we, as you will understand, did not agree very much. And we agree with his motion unless, in paragraph 4, he asks the Basque Government to ensure health care and work integration for workers residing in the Basque Country until Convention 188 is implemented. You don't have to ask him, he's already doing it. But he also asks you to give them social security attention. What more would this parliamentarian, his parliamentary group and the Basque Government like to see given to them? What happens is that it is a jurisdiction that, contained in the Statute, has not been transferred and its group has repeatedly refused such a transfer. That is why we have come to this compromise, which Mr Lazarobaster has perfectly explained and I will not repeat what he said. Finally, simply remember that the famous Convention 188 was adopted in 2007 and contains the condition that it will enter into force only if ten Member States ratify it, eight of which must also be coastal, which has a logic, because we would be trapped if Andorra or the Vatican ratified it, which would not make much sense. As far as I know, after eight years of its approval only five countries have ratified it, which makes this motion in the background a sort of toast to the sun that has more to do with international politics, in which unfortunately we are not competent either. Look, after these seven years and since very few countries have ratified it and countries of little international relevance, one recalls Kierkegaard's phrase of "life can only be understood by looking back, but it can only be lived by looking forward", which is what I think we have to do. However, I myself am going to make a trap and I am going to recover, for a moment, the past. Because you, Mr Azkue, were Vice-President of Fisheries of the Basque Government and your party was responsible for Fisheries, International Relations and Social Security in the Spanish State at the same time. Have you and the Spanish Government never asked for the ratification of this convention? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u41	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. A group that hasn't run any corrections, Mistto... He mustn't speak. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u42	Thank you very much, Madam President. Now I don't know if I'm going to be a little longer, Mr. Azkue, but I think we need to make some things clear, because otherwise, it can lead to misunderstandings. As has been recalled, this agreement, we will call it the 188, was approved in the year 2007 for ships of greater length of 24 meters and for crews of more than 16 years, and would enter into force 12 months after what ten members, eight coastals..., that is, today it is not in force. And it is not in force because it has not been ratified by the states envisaged in the treaty itself that had to do so. And Spain why hasn't ratified it? Because we could ask ourselves this question. And besides, you have been reminded, you yourselves were in the Basque Government, you were in the Government of Spain, you have not ratified it. Of course, the next question we have to ask ourselves is: would this agreement, if it were applied in Spain, the Spanish seamen would lose rights or gain rights? And it turns out that they might be harmed, because the rights they have are greater than those that come into this agreement. So, of course, so far there has been no concern for anyone to make this ratification happen. And what surprises me is that when you have ruled you have not raised it, when you have not ruled it either in the Congress of Deputies. And what surprises me is that you pose it right now that the Courts are dissolved. And then one wonders, is there really so much interest in the Basque Socialist Party in this ratification? Hey, since 2007, we're at the end of 2015 and they bring it right when the courts are dissolved. He keeps having his thing. You said that there had been timid progress in the European Union. Well, timid advances, it depends. Because you know that the Spanish employer, Cepesca, is in favour of ratification, you know that the Spanish trade unions are in favour of ratification, you know, moreover, that as the president of European entrepreneurs in Europêche was also Spanish, an agreement was reached with ETF, the European trade unionists, for it to apply in the European Union. And they asked the European Commission in 2013 to implement the convention through a Council decision, in accordance with the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. And in 2014, that is, the social side, entrepreneurs and workers agreed and in 2014 they came to the European Ombudsman, because they did not answer them from the Commission of the European Union. That is to say, timid progress, some will know why this is not moving forward in the European Union. And there's a survey that the ILO itself did in 2013 to the agents involved in Spain to see this why it wasn't moving forward. And who did not answer that survey that was made, of which their opinion was asked? The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because it said that it hoped to know the response of the other ministries involved, that there were at least two others; the National Federation of Fishermen's Brotherhood, that they will know why they did not answer; and the ELA union, that will also know because I do not answer the ILO survey. And who were in favour of ratification? The Director General of the Merchant Navy, the Social Institute of the Navy, the General Secretariat of Fisheries, UGT, Commissions, Cepesca, all except the Galician Interunion Confederation, IGC, which said that there was no need to ratify it, because it did not contribute anything, because the legislation we had in Spain was far superior. He also felt that as soon as it came into force, there would be no fishermen left to apply the system. That's more or less what the Galicians put forward. And what did UGT say? That for today the conditions envisaged on the Spanish ships are above 188 and the only feasibility or possibility is that it is extended to foreign workers. Workers' Committees: "Spain has greater guarantees in all aspects than it plans to achieve the 188 agreement." And Cepesca said that "Spanish standards far exceed 188 standards." That is, everyone agrees to ratify it, among other things because everyone agrees that they don't have to do much. Why? Because you know that Spain at the moment and in this matter is probably the first country in the world, including all the others who are. And see if the Spanish employer agrees, that not five months ago a Spanish and Basque company, Albacora, that will sound to you, has signed a collective agreement of global and global scope with ITF, and the only virtuality it has is that they extend the rights of Spanish workers to foreign workers. I mean, I'm saying let's get in and put everyone where we are and what we're talking about. And the great reason why everyone agrees, and you have pointed out, is to try to avoid social dumping. That is, if Spanish ships, including Basques, have higher labour costs, they are obviously competing at a disadvantage with ships from other countries with lower labour costs. What is happening is that all of them also recognize that, in substance, the ships of those countries and Governments, no matter how much they ratify that convention, do not implement it or do not ensure compliance, would not be able to avoid such social dumping either. And then there is another reason why we do agree with them, that even if in Spain it had no effect, it would be one of the countries that could set an example to all the others, and that if more countries are added and in the end we come to the eight coastal countries, it could enter into force in the countries that sign it. Of course, we are going to vote in favour, as it could not be otherwise. If he was concerned about unanimity, it will not be for us, that we are obviously in favour of ratifying this convention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u43	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing on the answers, Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u44	Of real interest is what is leaving the debate, more than perhaps at a certain point in time the Socialist Group expected. But it is very good that we deepen, if we want to, the debate. First to respond to Argentina, Congo, Bosnia, Morocco, South Africa and France; it is the countries that have already ratified the convention. No comment. France before us, I agree with the last speaker, with the Group of the European People's Party, in which we, Spain, should set an example, because it is the largest fleet in the European Union, one of the largest fleets in the world. But I am going to respond to something that has been raised, and that is that we have a wonderful world and the others do not, and the ratification of this convention does not even affect our fleet. You have just appointed an ITF agreement, in fact, because of a complaint from a Kenyan fisherman to whom $300 per month was applied as an agreement for 8 months of stay on board the vessels. A complaint collected in ITF which led to a group that barely uses Spanish flag, i.e. that has its ships in third countries, that that group does not really have any collective bargaining Listen, I do want to give you a touch about why I can talk to some authority. I signed the 2006 Maritime Convention, in this case, in 2006, as a representative of Spanish workers at the ILO, we signed 423 countries. And I am aware that I do not blame anyone, neither my party, nor even the current party in the Government, even if it is in office, because I know that the necessary procedure is at least 7 or 8 years each time the ILO agrees to an agreement, and it is meeting the deadlines necessary for them to reach the countries, and they really ratify it afterwards. I agree with you on something, look, if what we are trying to do is to ratify the convention, which has not mattered to us that there is no government at the moment. When the socialist government is ruling from January onwards, we will obviously ratify this Convention 188, because today we demand it from both of us, if any. I will end the need for collective bargaining, and fully in accordance with the words of the representative of Euskal Herritarrok. Let's not cheat. On our ships, even with the Bermeo flag, with the Spanish flag, there are 50% of crew members who have no terms and conditions, let us not be fooled. They are not of Spanish nationality, they are of third countries, black, of all the origins of the world, Indonesians even. And the same thing happens in Europe. Let's see this reality. Does it concern you or not what we ask or can we have and say that with this agreement there is social security if it is not applied to them in your countries? Yeah. Let's not really draw something that's not like that. It concerns even workers who are working in a Spanish flag fleet, from Galicia to Euskadi, and this is important to know. And I'm gonna finish. There is absolutely no claim to talk about this because yes, but because we deeply believe that the greatest step forward, and the motion is said, is to normalize here also a sector that is not normalized. And that's been done since collective bargaining. Because it is collective bargaining that can also take preventive measures on ships, which so far is only done outside ships, for example in Euskadi with the Itsaspreben agreements, a good job indeed. And it is only that desire for job normalization also on our ships that really moves us so that all of you, I insist, all of you, say yes to the ratification of this convention. And that, as the Councillor said the other day, collective bargaining is being pushed forward, because that will bring us sectoral standardisation and will also be a great step forward in the future for young people to want to enter the world of fisheries. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u45	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. He doesn't have to speak from EH. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u46	Thank you very much. It's just 30 seconds. I welcome the fact that we will certainly achieve unanimity. Ratify that our group is very much in agreement with everything that is going to be approved today. And I simply have a doubt of a question that I have asked and that has not been answered. Why is this proposed today and not proposed when the Socialist Party managed fishing in Euskadi and managed fishing in the Spanish State? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u47	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u48	Thank you very much, Madam President. In fact, the procedures are long, the agreement is from 2007. But when the procedures are so long, the logical thing is to start from the beginning to think about them, and not, as has happened in Spain, which is from 2013, ruling the People's Party and when the Socialist Party stopped ruling in Spain and the Basque Country, when these procedures have begun to take place. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u49	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the mediumal corrections signed by Basque Socialists, EH Collectors and Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 71; supporters, 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u50	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. Number of points in theme list: "Pune the other bill made by the legislatures, in order that they may be able to form a permanent and balanced budget policy. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Pindo, the representative of the EHG, has the word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u51	Good morning, everyone. Today we have a discussion about conditions in which the budgetal policy can be balanced and permanent. Or again, in order to develop the discussion of conditions in order to develop the strong public policies and their fundamental funds. Because it's the basic element for us to maintain strong public policies that develop budgetal and permanent policies. A few weeks ago we acted here on the policy of taxing the well-being, because the policy of taxing is the chief source of feeding the activity of public administration. But I'm afraid we saw here that you'd rather run away than get into the problem, and that many of you, staying in the poetic phrases, are not going anywhere. Today, we're going to discuss budget policy and the purpose of budget police. It's important to highlight that because they've been trying to convince us that there is only one way of making budgets and developments in the past years, trying to control the economy itself and the only way to read it. Thus in European governments the liberal view of understanding the economy and management of the public has prevailed. The most important part of the crisis is that when the people of the South have hit hard, the wrong recipe has been applied, because it seems to be the only way. But it's the wrong way, no doubt. To increase poverty, to spread social differences, to moderate public services, to diminish, after all, the well-being of the community; these were the effects of that recipe. And together with all these wrong outcomes, the economic crisis remains. After all, he's applying the wrong drug to repair the crisis, because behind all these economic measures there's a certain political project that sees all the evils in public services, the project that aims to destroy the welfare faith. In this context, and in the motto of paradigm, where we are suffering the most serious financial and social crisis, we have been presented as a condition and condition to repair all the evils of economy, the axiom of duty before any other public policy. And in the name of austerity misunderstood, we've been led blindly to worse paths than anywhere else. Thus the budgets of a country have become indispensable tools to scale and increase the differences, the principal object to control the cost and debt and the strict deficit, I should say, is the only one. And that's where the mistake lies. A painful and guilty mistake. The deficit and public debt which ought to be the instruments of public economic politics have been made the principal object of the budget. They have become the main, almost unique objective of budgetary policy, instrumental issues such as deficit control and public debt, so that debt payment becomes more important than pensions, health care or education. In short, they have made being an active agent of the economy a mere administrator of current expenditure. And here we have also seen that the President himself in the plunct of general policy, in the introduction of the prerogatives of his fair ones, had placed in the first place a defensive and public debt. We shall repeat several times, because it is an indispensable element in the understanding of political and public cares: The principal object of public policy and especially of budgets must be to promote the cohesion of society, to prevent social differences and social ruptures, and to place the direction and columns of a balanced economic development. These are the real targets for us. The sacralization of the limits of the deficit and public debt, a direct consequence of putting the entire burden of the economic crisis on the public sector, which has proved to be completely wrong, led the State to amend article 135 of the Constitution, a modification that the Socialist Party and the People's Party made in a month, in mid-August, without social consensus and without any citizen consultation. Amendment that even today the Spanish Socialist Workers Party criticizes. The amendment to article 135 of the Constitution was not only a mistake, a mistake based on a very concrete formulation of politics and the economy, but a direct attack on the welfare of society. In those days, prominent state leaders said that the reform of article 35 of the Constitution saved the State from welfare and social policies, and the reality has been that it has served to justify a policy of extreme austerity, rights cuts, re-centralization and social involution. This change of the Constitution has since been the foundation of the law on the stability and stability of the budget made by the PP government. And if the foundation has been wrong, we must say that development has been even worse. This law abolishes all the chances of financial and economic policy, yes, throughout the state, but especially in our own. This law has had a direct influence over our country, and it remains a pity. This law circumscribes the powers of governments and parliaments entirely, and consequently limits the choice of what is expressed by the votes of the people. This law has meant not only a reduction in the margins of the autonomous communities to adopt their own budgetary policy within the framework of their financial autonomy, but also a conditioning of their decisions on the specific areas of their competence. The State with this law can, by imposing particularly strict objectives, condition the budget and the sectoral policies of the autonomous communities themselves, and the Basque Autonomous Community is no exception. These last few times we have been hearing closed defenses of the Economic Concert, of financial autonomy, but instead here we have a clear example of the none of that much praised financial autonomy. Because who else has the Government of the State set deficit limits, public debt limits and even the narrow spending rule that prevents public administrations from spending above the medium-term GDP growth reference rate determined by the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness itself? The Financial Stability Act is a frontal attack on our financial autonomy. For the sake of this law and the action of this Government, we are faced with a budgetary policy which in no way responds to the socio-economic reality and the priorities of our society. In the application of the law of stability, the State government has taken upon itself the right of distribution of deficits and limitations. And though in our case we have an Echonomical pact, and even though it's fun to say that the defense line has negotiated, it's reality is that the state's settlements are in force, that's all. This law does not at all concern the state at the time when it is to define the social condition of our people, the starting-point is equal to that of the state. As public debts and deficits are naturally bad as premisses, so the starting-level is no matter. But we have a beautiful margin on our own. The size of our debt is not, for instance, that of Spain itself, or France, to the crude inward exploit. Ours, by Ingression of historical lands, and so on, will be 5%, when Spain and France also reach 100 percent. So why don't you say no to the possibility of agreeing to the social and preliminaries of our social reality, and of negotiating later on, swallowed up by the state's needs? What are those red lines of defense and debt to the public? Perhaps an insuperable obstacle, or a mere excuse, the model of politics that they really want to develop, which is neoliberal, an opportunity to pass without complexity? Because the offer to make that minimum consent has been on the table. We've done it from the United States here in the parliament, in order to work efficiently in the matters proper to our financial independence, and to explain it to the State as a people. But he didn't like that offer. In fact, some of you will tell us that the Constitution's change and the Act of stability are the translations of the pretty ones decided in Europe. But is it not true that different countries have already revealed their differences? Or that France and Italy, for instance, have not more than once fulfilled these demands of defence? Or is it not true that Spain itself has not fulfilled it? Even in the Catalunia, the limits of the public debt have already been opposed to the prettyst of sacrilege. And lately in Navarro, there have been a similar position in the case of the law of stability and of the Constitution, which has been shown by different parties in the legislature, because they are in the end both direct attacks against financial autonomy. But EAE is supposed to be different, the paradise of well-being. Therefore, because the necessity and variety of citizens are trifling, we may, blindly and blindly, give way to the exact limits of debt and defence, even in the first place of preference. Thus, Mr. Urcullu and his government appear at the same time very obedient, in the presence of pretty differences; but they are extremely disobedient to the necessities of the legislative, and the needs of society. And from all this, and expressly refusing to make changes in the policy of taxes, the restrictions are perpetuated. Mr. Urkullu, ladies and gentlemen of the department have gone out to Minnie's, they're not interested in the subject, or they're not interested in it, because there have been some restrictions. And because the budget project in 2016 perpetuates them. Hence we wish to defend our economic independence, the development of the welfare of the community, and, after all, the power of carrying our people forward and of developing them. And the consequence is, what we are asking here in this legislature is that the change of the state's Constitution is 135. The difference of the article and the stability of the budget, and the clear opposition of the 2/2012th Union law on the 27th of April and Finance, and consequently to abolish them. And being consistent with this request, at the moment of developing budget policies, the collapse of society must be a axis and a priority. We have a chance to walk in the right direction, give us the inevitable steps to build our path. In Navarre, as I have said, some have already done. Let's just get together and sign these little signs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. I suppose Mrs Pinedo will not be surprised if we tell her that we are not in favour of what she has proposed to us. The thing is, I do want to tell you that there are some contradictions in your speech. First, the requirements for entering the euro were not liberal. It was the countries that established the countries that wanted to make a single currency for those countries that wanted to enter that single currency. There was a lot of social democratic government at that time, also at this time. But the thing about liberal principles as a discourse is very good, but the reality is not that. And why did those criteria come up? Because when someone wants to do something that affects them what others do and can harm them, game rules are put in place so that someone doesn't ruin everyone else's club. And what is the next regulation that exists in this? Well, look, something very easy, that is, no one is obliged to enter the club and everyone in the club can leave. You don't want to abide by the rules of the club? It's coming out. So, you don't give us this speech, tell us that you propose that we leave the euro. There are other countries that are proposing to leave the European Union as well, listen, that it is not mandatory to be. What happens is that there are a lot of countries in line that want to get in. It must be so bad, almost everyone wants to come in. You criticise the rules of play that the euro countries gave to themselves in order to be able to enter the euro. And you criticize the deficit and you criticize everything. And it tells us that here we have charged ourselves with the state of social welfare, to meet these requirements, in Spain I suppose. I will have to tell you that it was precisely the opposite. And I am not going to remind you that only four years ago everyone asked Mariano Rajoy to ask for the ransom, that that was to charge the State of Social Welfare, as has happened in other countries like Greece, which have casually charged their State of Social Welfare. Why? Because not only did they fail to comply with all the rules, they lied, one after another, all the governments that have paraded there. And it's everyone else's fault? No, no, Now, you want to stay at the club, don't leave the club. So, something will have the club that those who aren't want to go in and those who are don't want to go out. Look, if you want to be in a club, in this case the euro, you will have to meet the requirements of the euro. And if you don't like them, if you don't have to. What would be needed here is a little clarity and tell the citizens what we are really proposing. If we are considering not meeting the requirements of the euro, say it clearly and that its approach is to get out of the euro. Because, as you will understand, the other countries will not be aware of whether Bildu likes this requirement or likes another. In this country we have curiously a debate that does not exist in the rest of Europe, with the fulfilment of the requirements of the euro. Everyone says they have to be fulfilled, another thing is that some do more traps and others do less. But no one claims not to comply with them. You say, what about the Autonomous Community? Let's see, the State is to ensure compliance with the laws, as in all democratic states and those include international treaties. And that affects everyone and is responsible for all, and of course all administrations, be they autonomous communities, be they municipalities, be they parliaments. Obviously, that is the obligation of the State. If not, ask where it is appropriate for us to get out of the euro, to see which majorities you get clear. You say, "The size of our debt isn't that big." Man, the size of our debt, the size of the Basque government's debt, let's see if we ever get to know exactly how big the Basques are. And let's see if we really add the debt of the Basque Government, more than 50% of the companies that do not compute here or there, then we add those of the deputies, then we add the debt of the municipalities and then we add the percentage we have of the debt of Spain. And then we talk about the debt of the Basques, but the real debt, which seems like nobody here is willing to do that account. In other words, the debt of the Basque Government is smaller than that of the Spanish Government. Of course, everything is included in the Government of Spain. And then when autonomous communities, such as the Catalan one, appear, which suddenly emerges another deficit of more than 1 billion euros, it is the Spanish State that fails to meet the criteria of the deficit. So, what do you have to do? Evidently, that everyone abides by the rules. The rules that, A, we wanted to have and that is why we enter and that is why we ask to join the euro. And B, the ones we've given ourselves. And that is what is democratic and that is what has saved the state of social welfare in Spain, which the pensioners in these four years have not only seen their income cut, but have seen it increased. Ask them in Greece to see what has happened, or ask them in Portugal to see what has happened, or ask them in other countries that did not comply with the rules and then ask for the ransom what has happened to them. Here, for example, that has not happened to us. And as much as you insist that we have burdened ourselves with the state of social welfare, I don't think you find many people who tell you that he has suffered that, but precisely the opposite. And that has been, as you said at the beginning of your proposal, for a balanced and sustainable budgetary policy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u54	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u55	Thank you, President. We will analyse exactly what EH Bildu is proposing to us and what our arguments are in relation to his concrete proposals. On the one hand, EH Bildu proposes that we protest against the amendment of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution and also of the Law on Budgetary Stability and Financial Sustainability and ask for its repeal. It also proposes that we defend the elimination of the obligation of the expenditure rule set out in the Budget Stability Act, in addition to meeting the deficit and debt targets, and that we say what should be taken into account, I have pointed out earlier, when drawing up and developing the Basque budgets. Let's go in parts. I agree with one of the things that is pointed out in the justification of the initiative. I agree that the main objectives of public policies and budgets that support them are the promotion of social cohesion, the eradication and prevention of social differences and fractures, and the establishment of guidance and the basis for balanced economic development. I agree with this which is pointed out in the justification. And I also agree with the point that the main objective of the budgets has been to square the accounts and strictly control the debt and deficit. Indeed, unfortunately this has been so. With regard to the reform of article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, we voted against that amendment both because of the way it was perpetuated and because of the substance. It was a reform carried out with exhaustion and lightness, behind closed doors, without public debate or agreement with the rest of the political forces, without referendum and behind the backs of the citizenry. Today this is recognized even by the Socialist Party itself. What was intended to be achieved through the amendment of article 135? The consecration of the principle of budgetary stability, the subordination of debt policy to European decisions, the absolute priority in the budgets of the State for the payment of the debt, whose conditions could not be renegotiated, and debt limits by law, which could be breached only in the event of natural disasters, economic recession or emergency situations. That reform was voted by the People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, and there were only five deputies who voted against that initiative, because there was some group that preferred to leave the House. Among the five Members who voted against was the only representative of UPyD and also two worthy socialists who decided to break the Socialist Party's vote on this issue. Why do we vote against it, therefore? Both for the shape and the background. Article 135, as reformed, does what it does is to manipulate governments and prevent that resource from being used to make economic policy, which is to make policy. It was decreed that there is only one possible economic policy, which sacrifices everything to pay off the debt. We therefore vote against this reform, both in terms of form and substance. However, it must be said that that reform had a virtue, made something manifest. Beyond the effects of the reform, that coexistence, that dark covenant, that deficient twinning had the virtue of proving to those who were not yet convinced that PSOE and PP, PP and PSOE were basically the same. It is curious, because the People's Party and the Socialist Party did not decide to reform the Spanish Constitution to ensure the equal value of voting, or to depoliticize justice, or to modify the institutional framework, or the territorial model of the State, but modified it to limit the room for manoeuvre of democratically elected governments. And it was certainly an absolute scandal. Like what came next most unemployment, more poverty, more injustice and more corruption, the Spaniards had at last to admit that both parties were the two sides of a regime dedicated only to themselves. Therefore, if it had that virtue, it became clear at the end of 2011 that the People's Party and the Socialist Party were basically the same. And for all this, UPyD voted against the reform, both in substance and in the forms used to carry out that reform. Having said that, and with regard to economic policy, budgetary stability, debt, indebtedness, deficit, budgetary sustainability or the consolidation of public accounts, I believe that there are three possible positions to be maintained today in both Euskadi and Spain, and especially in the European Union as a whole. There are, say, three ideological positions, three positions on this issue. On the one hand, there are the apologetas of unbounded austerity and social cutters. On the other hand, there are populists who have emerged from the apologetas, that is, those who propose to disband the walk, abandon the euro, return to the nation state, or isolate us from the world. And finally, there is the third Europe: in the face of the apologets of austerity without limits and in the face of populists who have emerged from them, there are or we are those who want to defend that third Europe, those who defend a Europe of free and equal citizens, and those who defend economic policies to the services of citizens and their well-being. The ones we want to continue to be in the club to which Mr Damborenea referred, but we want to improve that club as much as possible and we also want to improve the rules of that club. Those of us who advocate a human economic policy, whose fundamental objective is to defend essential public services and the interests of citizens. But let us add more ideas and arguments in relation to this certainly interesting debate. The increase in debt and deficit have a negative impact on the economy and therefore have a negative impact on people. Therefore, it is good to have controlled and there is budgetary stability, it is good to have controlled both debt and deficit. We are in favour of sound public accounts and believe that whoever proposes otherwise is offering bread for today and hunger for tomorrow. Now I'm going with the explanation, you'll see how you're going to understand it. One thing is the deficit target and another thing is the way to achieve it. One way is to achieve it through social cuts and reduction of the welfare state, and another through the impetus of certain reforms. In fact, trying to sell the idea that the simple establishment of a deficit target is the reason why governments drive social cuts, is to give an argumental basis to social cutlers, who come repeatedly to tell us "we push social cuts because Europe forces us and because we have to meet the deficit target", which is absolutely false. Because the deficit target can be achieved in different ways. The deficit target can be achieved through the drive for social cuts or cuts in education and health, that is one way. And another way, for example, is to abolish provincial parliaments, which would save us EUR 6 billion a year. One way is to approve copays of all kinds and another to merge municipalities, thus saving us 16 billion euros per year. One way is to reduce social spending and the welfare state, and another to reform the institutions, eliminate duplication and correct inefficiencies, which in Spain as a whole would save us 25 billion euros. One way is to push policies to make the rich richer and the poor poorer, and another to deal with corruption, which would save us 40 billion euros a year. Or fight tax fraud, which would save us €70 billion a year. Therefore, they are two different ways of doing politics: a reactionary form, that of social cutters; and a progressive form. And for Euskadi obviously they are worth the same ideas. Moreover, I think they are confusing the deficit target, which is one thing, with the way to achieve it, which is something else quite different. In any case, we believe that the law in force must be respected. Therefore, the objective is indeed something that is pointed out in the justification itself: "The main objectives of public policies and budgets that support them are the promotion of social cohesion, the eradication and prevention of social differences and fractures, and the establishment of the orientation and the basis for balanced economic development". And in order to achieve those objectives, we have tabled our amendment in its entirety. We are clearly against the amendment of Article 135 by the People's Party and the Socialist Party at the end of 2011. On the other hand, it is clear that it is absolutely essential to adopt budgets that are respectful of existing legality and without social cuts, and that involve strengthening the welfare state. This is what we basically defend. And this is what can perfectly be done if there is political will. That, I think, is, in short, the third Europe that we are defending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u56	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing round the teams that don't run, Mr. Prieto, the Basque Socialist, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u57	President, ladies and gentlemen. This is a debate that has an interest, which is topical, which is going to remain so and which perhaps has an early time and a wrong House. Because, in fact, the amendment of the Constitution, the deficit policy, the fiscal stability policy are country-framework policies, the framework of Spain and also the European framework policies. And they are certainly policies on which there are political positions that are already very much faced, among other things because they have demonstrated over this time, in recent years, where the mistakes are, where the mistakes are, or where the negative impact of those policies can be on what the public interest, the citizen interest, the interest of the majority can be. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, as you know well, is holding a conference this weekend. That conference will agree on its electoral agenda. The electoral offer of this electoral programme that we will make to the citizens is intended to enter into these kinds of tools of our country's economic policy. And as has already been announced on more than one occasion, among other things we intend to correct article 135 of the Constitution, which for a long time the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party has already described as a mistake having made that amendment in its day, a mistake on which we are willing to make corrections. Obviously, at the moment there is neither the correlation of political forces in the country nor the conditions for the moment of the policy for this, since first the elections are called and the chambers dissolved, and secondly because the legislature that has brought us here is an absolute majority legislature of the People's Party, and what could be a pretension of ours did not have a possibility of practical implementation in parliamentary policy, in the policy of the General Courts. But we have the will, with another majority that we have the interest to lead and that we will ask the Spanish citizen to make some corrections on the economic and budgetary policy that is being done in this country. And as I say, one of them is the amendment to article 135 of the Constitution. Obviously, from a socialist perspective, that education is guaranteed, that health is guaranteed, that pensions are guaranteed, is a priority of a policy of common good, is a priority of a socialist policy, is a priority of a policy of citizens' interest, of collective interest. And this is curtailed, mediated in a certain way by what means the modification that was made in its day of article 135 of the Constitution. In the same way as a deficit policy, a policy based on austerity, which in its day was imposed from the European Union and which here has been adapted in a way with which we have had a permanent critical position, it can also be done in another way. First, by fighting in the European Union that deficit policy, by opening up the margins, by seeing those margins develop. And then again in this country, distributing these margins, which are related to the borrowing capacity and, therefore, to the financing capacity of citizens, institutions, and through the institutions of public policies of citizens. Well, in that we are socialists, that is now part of our political objectives, which we will finalize this weekend. And of course, in Spain we need another economic policy, another social policy, another deficit policy, another policy of budgetary stability, another policy in which the interests of the citizen and not other minority interests are given priority. But as I said at the beginning, this belongs to the context of political action of another House, the one that will be formed from November 20th, corresponds to another different political leadership, to the current one that we aspire to. And that is why he said that, although the debate is interesting the House and time are wrong, this is not the time, this is not where we can make those changes, this is not where we can achieve those policies, it is not in this House, but it will be, if Spanish citizens want it, as a result of a profound change that has to occur in that electoral framework. That is why, beyond appreciating an interest in the philosophy of the initiative, which I have highlighted here, and to some extent some elements of coincidence with it, we do not believe that this House with its approval would bring anything at all. And that is why we will not help us to adopt this approach which is being adopted, which, in addition, at its last point, the conclusions derive from a policy and a budget which is not to be addressed by the first two points, because it is not something that can be achieved within the framework of the budgets of the Autonomous Community, but in any case within the framework of the general budgets of the State. In other words, the first point and the second point may have an interest in this Parliament's participation in these points, but the conclusion to which it leads, which is the third point, is not relevant. And that is why we also do not consider it a successful initiative from a technical point of view, from the point of view of the method used to conclude it. This is the position of the Basque Socialist Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u58	Thank you, Mr Price. Madame Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u59	Thank you, ma'am. Good evening to all of you. Mrs. Pindo, your first sentence has been to discuss: "You like to run away," you said. And as you know, we do not like to escape, and everything that we have said is answered, and at the moment we dispute with every thing. In the initiative you present, what the first two points say, it must be said that for a long time the union of the legislature has taken a tremendous fancy and taste for it, because the first and second points are copied from another document, the last word from the first word, that is to say. But we've been seeing our position over and over and over and over in this Chamber, in front of these two points. We have clearly stated that we do not like 135 of the Constitution. we voted against the articles and against Madrid, saying that we don't like 2/2012 of the Organic Law. And what you say at the second point is, that we don't like to have the right to defend, to place the goal and cost of debt, and to demand that there should be more flexibility, and to give more margins to each and every institution. But in your initiative the problem, as has been said, is at the third point. The third point is the clear example of the hypocrisy of the gathering. One thing you say and do another, that's what you do, and this third point goes on that way again. You're saying you have to be strict about what is indicated in the two previous points when you do the budget. And I'll show you how severe he has been in the organizations he's managed, and where he manages all the time when he does what he's here. Because the orders you gave seem to be directed only to the organizations in which the "Eugal Party" is managed, not to the Union. I'll give you a few examples of reality. You say, I'll read what you say in your initiative: "The direction imposed by the European Union in the last few years on the occasion." And you say: These measures are also correct in the Euscal People. Yes, the truth is true, what you say is true. That way he criticizes by collecting is what you did. And I'll read it to you. Foral 12/2012, approving the 2013 Budgets of the historic territory of Gipuzkoa, said exactly, and I read: "Financial and budgetary responsibility requires continuing the path marked by the objective of keeping public accounts under control", Pinedo Anderea, "and being able to meet the objectives set by the European Union by 2020". Meeting the targets set by the European Union for 2020, that's what you put in the 12/2012 standard. "Principles of budgetary discipline", i.e. the same as the Basque Government and the other institutions governed by the PNV. But it is also important to highlight one fact, and it is that the Gipuzkoa Foral Diputation, when it ruled, was the first territorial executive to adopt a normative text with the express will to discipline all the municipalities in its territory so that they would strictly and rigorously comply with what you are denouncing here today. And that was done with the foral norm 1/2013, in which the competence of financial tutelage in the matter of budgetary stability and financial sustainability of the local entities of Gipuzkoa is developed, where you said, I will only remind you of a phrase, "consistent with European legislation and in accordance with the established Organic Law 2/2012". Does that sound like what you put in the text and what you've done? Well, that's what you say. But you also spoke of neoliberal politics in your speech. Zor publikoa mourriztea axioma ukaezina da esan duzu. Zelan bath esan dezakezue zuek hori? Begitu, aurten, Uttailean, Eustatek atera dituen azken datuen arabira, "Financial resources of the public administrations of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi", eta hemen goaz to table number two, "Net saving and capacity or need to finance public administrations", and we find that the Basque Government in 2013, in order to be able to finance all social expenditure, health, education and the whole Basque model of social protection, resorted to a deficit, without jeopardizing the financial sustainability of the budgets, of 750 million. I'm going to give you Gipuzkoa's figure: 108 million surplus. You mean to me, which of the two examples is an example of neoliberal politics? What do you report when you're saying "zor publikoa murriztea axioma ukaezina da"? Hori gives exactly a dozen. Baina zu udal batako zinegotzia izan zara, Bizkaian, Bilduk kudeatzen duena. Eta zuk kudeatutako aurrekontuetan zer ipintzen duzu indarrean, zer baloratzen duzu? Hau: "During 2013 the repayment of the entire debt was carried out". That's a value to you. Now, if it governs the PNV, it's neoliberal politics. That's political hypocrisy, Mrs. Pinedo. And you also say, "current revenue covers current expenditure and net savings are expected to increase this way," net savings, "increase this by 20% compared to the 2013 forecast. We are not expected to lend." You have to be honest with politics. And what others do when they do, is either well or ill; but sometimes ill, sometimes well, and sometimes well, not what they do. Political hypocrisy. And that can't justify the initiative you've introduced. But not only that, I'm a councilman myself at the City of Dima, in another council of the Union. One more example of another council. What's he got there? Well, the memoir of budget stability and stability. What rules does it make? 2/2012 Organic Law, which is said to be not here to-day. Fills it up. What do you say on the third point, Mrs. Pindo? Let him be sharp and respect what he says on the two previous points. And that's the problem. And what does he say? And the end of permanence, of debt and expense, is 2015. This is when managing collected reality: You say something and do something else, that's what you do. And it's not just because Europe's running over, it's not just that. What we can't do is get involved, risking financial funding and tomorrow-to-morrow-to-morrow-to-morrow's needs to be satisfied. There's one thing we're clear about. That we cannot resort to excessive indebtedness putting financial sustainability at risk and thus mortgage the possibilities that future generations will have to be able to meet their needs as well. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Pindo, EH Collect, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u61	Egun where I was. The truth is that all the speeches we have heard today from the rest of the groups have a summary: that reality doesn't spoil a great headline for you. Because everything you have said has been based on conjectures about what I have come to put here, except for Mr Maneiro in some sections, then we will talk about it. Because all the others have said has been what you would have wanted to hear to literally buzz EH Bildu. Look, Mrs. Gorospe, I was hypocritical of yours and that of your party. Because I've never said what you've come to say here. I have not said at any time in my speech "we are going to break, we are going to destroy, nor are we going to make a budget submission". The budget submission is requested by the congressmen in Madrid. I didn't say that here today. And nothing further from reality, Mrs. Gorospe. And you have once again chosen the easy resource of what we do or stop doing in institutions. And it's also that he's customized on me, he's customized on a budget that I managed when I was in a city hall. And of course, my budget removed the debt that his party had dedicated itself to ceasing from previous exercises. But I did not make a single cut, not one, not in social policies, not in any other policy of necessity in my people. Moreover, it was we who put aid to families with social needs to pay local taxes, which you never did, because they always put it in the budget but they always forgot to make the corresponding municipal ordinance. So I was hypocritical of yours and that of your party, Mrs. Gorospe. You again and again what we do or stop doing. They're against the Stability Act. Forbearance at the Congress of Deputies, Mrs Gorospe. And you have those priorities that you so much like to brag about. But it is that, I insist, textual words of the lehendakari: "Ba inbetida-saioko eztabaidan, bai gobernu-programan kudeaketaren arloan hiru ardaz nagusiri lehentasuna emateko konpromisoa hartu dugu. Lehenengoa, zorrotzak egonkortasun-printpioa kudeatzen eta betetzen. It's a gero already oinarrizko zerbitzuak bermatzea". This is the question, we must put the services ahead. And the other thing has to be fulfilled, but I told you not long ago, they are instruments, and you turn the instruments into ends and separate themselves from the ends. And don't throw at others what you're the only ones guilty of doing. Mr Prieto, the truth is that today I do not know whether I have come to the Parliament of Vitoria or to an electoral act of the Socialist Party, which I understand is any time good for the wedge, Mr Prieto. But in the end here what you are going to do is both you and you the day's paper. They will vote against EH Bildu's proposal, and will therefore stand in favour of Article 135 of the Constitution. And they seem to like it. Because you said that the PSOE is going to repeal, that's what Mr Sánchez said, ergo why today the Basque Socialist Party does not stand against the amendment of 135 of the Constitution? Because recently his Navarra colleagues did, and it was also the Navarra Parliament and not the Congress of Deputies. And it did not seem to them that it was a wrong time and a wrong House, they did it in the Parliament of Navarre their comrades of the Socialist Party. And to Mrs Gorospe, her fellow shipwrecks also recently did so in the Navarro Parliament. But it seems that the Autonomous Community is the promised archadia and this kind of clarification must not be made. Really, I understand that you will vote against, because according to you in EH Bildu we have no art at the time of writing. Of course, the problem is who reads and how he interprets, because the interpretation for me is very clear, and I explained it in my first speech. But, as I said before, I insist that reality doesn't spoil a good headline for you. And that's what happened to you today. They will vote against this, according to you they will give a zaplasteko to EH Bildu, apparently that's all they care about. But in reality you are giving a blow to society, to social rights, to a true development of a welfare state, to an advanced and inclusive society. And don't worry, because we'll insist.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Representative of the Basque Group, Lord Damborene, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u63	Madam President. I do not want to meddle in who is the most hypocritical of the two nationalist representatives who have spoken before, but I think they both have a little bit. And I say a little bit, because if we misunderstand Mrs Pinedo and she does not propose the exit of the euro, I will start on the basis that then we have to meet the deficit criteria. Therefore, the speech contradicts the purpose you propose. And the same could be said of the nationalist representative, who is also against this regulation, but who is also in favour of the regulation when she is in the European Union, because we want to remain in the euro. Therefore, I will almost welcome the fact that we all agree to remain in the euro, which was what we proposed in our amendment, whether we vote or not, because in the end there seems to be unanimity in the House in which the Basque Nationalist Group, EH Bildu, the Socialist Party, even I believe we agree with Mr Maneiro in this performance, and the People's Party we all agree to remain in the euro. And therefore, I have to assume that we agree to meet the requirements to remain in the euro. I therefore believe that there is enough hypocrisy in almost all the speeches I have heard, not just those of the two representatives. Well, Mr. Prieto, it's not up to this House to... You have brought to this House in the first round a proposal for a law amending the Statute, the Constitution and the Economic Concert. Then. Look, if you can do it, I don't know why you can't do it to others. I tell you because of these little things that happen to us all with the contradictions we have. Another thing is that you do not like the debate either or are not very comfortable with the situation in which the Socialist Party is in this area. Let's see, having more debts or less is not right or left. That someone breaks a company or a state is not right or left. That depends on the income and on how good or bad you are, on the right or on the left. Look, I recognize Mrs Pinedo that you have managed quite well, because I do know the piece of debt that these gentlemen left her in the Gipuzkoa Diputation. And obviously I agree that it's better not to pay interest to banks and spend money on people, what people need. For that it is essential not to have to pay interest or to amortize debts. But you have come today to tell us that no, that we must do the opposite. Budget of the Basque Government that brings us this year, 1.2 billion debt issue, payment of the debt 1,190, we issue debt to pay debt. That's right. We continue to increase the living debt, which will be paid by someone. Is this good management? I understand you don't. I don't know what others understand. I don't know if it's right or left, because I've seen right-wing people all over the world do that and left-wing people do it, I don't know if it's very right-wing or very left-wing. I think it is a problem of good managers or bad managers, of manifests or not manifests, of deciding what we want to spend citizens' money on, whether in citizens or in paying interest and loans. Sometimes it is necessary to ask for a loan and pay interest, but the normal thing, any normal person, of people walking the street, does not raise these things. No one wants to have debts if they can avoid them. It's not good to have debts, no one wants to pay the banks money, or at least I don't know anyone who goes down the street saying "I want to pay more money to the banks, I want to have more debts." And I think that simply applying a fairly normal, common sense rule that people usually apply when managing their money, their life, their assets, in the end the public accounts are more or less the same. And I, Mr. Maneiro, to change the rules of the game, of course change the rules of the game. Listen, as we arrived at the government, the first thing Mr Mariano Rajoy did was raise that, and speed up the banking union, and fiscal harmonisation, because those are the rules of the game that must be changed in order for Europe to be more Europe. Because we do want more Europe, and in that we differ from the nationalists. "They tell us from there what we have to do, here they won't let us do." Look, you're leaving Europe and you're doing what you want. But if you want to be in Europe and you want to be in the euro, and we want to be in Europe and in the euro, and also more Europe and more competences in Europe and more harmonisation of all kinds in Europe, for these are the measures that Mariano Rajoy and the People's Party have proposed in Europe and that, gradually, because it is complicated to do so, they are coming to an end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u64	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mr. Maneiro, you have a promise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Pinedo was going to answer me at the end of her speech, but she forgot. In any case, I want to summarize my first intervention a little bit so that what we consider to be two ideas that we think are very important. Because this is certainly an interesting debate and these certainly interesting debates we should take advantage of them all to do a little political, economic or democratic pedagogy, which does not serve only to attack the rest of the groups in relation to what they have done or what they have been doing in recent times. To explain briefly what our position is. We were and are very critical of the amendment to article 135 of the Spanish Constitution for the reasons I explained, both in substance and in form. Having said that, we obviously believe that the existing legality must be complied with and that the deficit target must also be met. And we actually think that when the debt is released, or the deficit also goes wrong or increases, that is bad for the citizens as a whole and, therefore, it is reasonable to promote economic policies that go in the direction of trying to reduce debt, indebtedness and the public deficit. And I think this is perfectly acceptable to a majority of parliamentary groups in this House. It is good, therefore, that the public accounts are healed. This will then have a positive impact on the maintenance or strengthening of the welfare state. What's right or what's left? I no longer know what is exactly right or left, but I think I can more or less know what is what is reactionary to what is progressive. So, when we talk about meeting the deficit target, what I have come to raise is that to achieve that deficit target a number of decisions can be made or others can be made. And there are a number of decisions that are profoundly unfair and reactionary, which have been implemented by different governments in recent times, and there are other progressive options to try to meet the deficit target. And I've explained it before. It is not the same to promote cuts in education or health, but to reform the autonomous state in order to reduce duplication or inefficiencies. It is not the same thing to put an end to social spending, to implement co-operatives, which, for example, reduce or suppress provincial parliaments, superfluous entities, to fight more against tax fraud or to fight more against corruption. They're different measures. Therefore, progressive policies will be those that go in the direction of pushing those measures, the progressive ones, those that will make it possible for us to meet the goal of the deficit and at the same time save, and not only save, but that we can strengthen the welfare state. Mrs Pinedo, one thing that I think is very important for you to bear in mind: to launch the idea that meeting the deficit target forces you to push cuts is a serious argumental error. Because in this way you are basing social cutlers on continuing to drive social cuts, because that is basically what you have come to say over the past few years, both the PP government and the Basque Nationalist Party government: as we have to meet the deficit target, there is nothing but drive social cuts. If you haven't said that, better, because it's not appropriate to say it, because they'll take it into account later. No, there's no need to push social cuts. Less in today's Euskadi, taking into account the superfluous expenditure that continues to exist, and much less in today's Spain, with the superfluous expenditure that continues to exist. And that idea I think is the most important one that we should launch and that I wanted to launch. Having said that, we will not vote in favour of the original initiative and I will continue to support the UPyD Group's amendment until the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u66	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u67	Madam President. A couple of considerations. One to Mr. Damborenea. I will not be the one to say that this Parliament is not competent to make the political debate it considers appropriate. Another thing is that the political opposition that I am defending here today is a political opposition that leads me not to approve a proposal made by the Bildu Group, which is what I have been referring to. Because Bildu proposes that Article 135 of the Constitution be repealed, he proposes that the budget should not be kept in line with the criteria of budgetary stability, indebtedness and deficit which come from the European Union and also from the Spanish State, and that this should apply to the budgets of the Autonomous Community, something so defined is absolutely impossible and you know it. That is why what we are saying here is that we are not accompanying you in your specific approach, not in the parliamentary debate. The parliamentary debate seems appropriate to us, and it also allows us, as Mrs Pinedo says, to make public the political conference that we are going to hold this weekend, in the same way that you and your group allow any intervention to greet the Catalan Republic. And well, we're not as angry as you are, which puts itself here like a ferret every time we take it a little bit the other way around. A little bit of relaxation, which is also nothing, a little bit of tranquility. Then we want to reform article 135 of the Constitution, because, by copying a few words from Mr. Maneiro but turning them around, if in his day article 135 of the Constitution had been changed at that time to guarantee pensions, health and education, I would have agreed in substance and in form. I mean, let's face it, many times political approaches, depending on the content, can lead you to agree. But it wasn't like that. I am absolutely convinced that the person who pushed this reform did so thinking of safeguarding a greater good, which did not do so with interest that the austerity policy of the European Union, which somehow influenced that decision, was a failure, as it has been, for the interests of the majority of European citizens, and especially Spain, Portugal, Greece, etc. And in view of the results of certain austerity policies, constitutional changes, budgetary policies, etc., obviously the position of a political party, which aims to transform those aspects of society that do not agree with the model of society we defend, leads us to say that this is the opportune time to change and correct Article 135 of the Constitution. How do you do it? Well, you know how it's done. It is done by sending the People's Party to the opposition, it has to be so, there is no other solution, by leading the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, it has to be so, it cannot be otherwise, and by introducing into the Constitution that reform to ensure that those policies of public services, those policies of social care, which are those that define, those that have defined and those that we always build socialists, even with the opposition of some of you or many of you, who have then been recycling and welcome to be. But indeed, if anyone has an interest in defending political positions in defence of public services and social policies, we are the ones who build them. We built public health, we built public education, we built pensions, we built workers' rights, we built collective bargaining, we built people's equal rights. Finally, we have built what is called this social Spain which, in many passages of recent history, was even a leader in social policies and public policies in the European Union, sometimes surpassing the most advanced countries, which doubled us in longevity in terms of freedoms and democracy. So we are at a very deep moment of reflection, because we believe that we are prepared to take the alternative to a nefarious right-wing government in Spain, led by Mr Rajoy, this is the time. And obviously, I have to tell you, because if anyone wants to help and support this, this is the time. There won't be a better one in at least four years. With this, on December 20th there will be a well prepared alternative, which we are going to finalize this weekend in Madrid and of the I invite you all to make an enthusiastic apology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u68	Thank you, Mr Price. Mrs. Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u69	Thank you again, Mrs. President. I didn't mention your budget, I mentioned the budget of the Sopel City Council. Like I said about the City of Dima budget. UPyD, the social cutters. Tell me if you know a single community, just one that makes as much effort as Euskadi to maintain the Basque model of social protection, health and education. And tell me one that, in addition to making that effort, is fulfilling what is mandated in the regulation related to budgetary stability and financial sustainability. Tell me one from there, I hear you. None. And I think that has to be put into value. So, do me a favor. And you'll never find us on the road as long as you keep saying we're social cutters. Mr. Damborenea, I was saying, "I don't know which one of you is going to be more hypocritical." Well, look, I'm going to read you what the People's Party says, and judge you, make a reflection of those silent, deep, with yourself. The People's Party says that "it is committed to a balanced and sustainable budgetary policy, and reiterates its commitment to the European Union". Really? Will the People's Party of the Government of Spain meet the deficit in 2015? Will it meet in 2016? How much value are you going to have to make the adjustments? I urge you to talk about this again after the election, the first quarter of 2016. I'll put you in, Mr. Damborenea, then we'll have the data on the table. You know what the European Commission has warned you about. Ez doubtes esan esandakoa. Zuk ez duzu esan, Pinedo anderea, "ihes egiten dozu gustura"? Eta nik esan said ez dugula ihes Egyptian, 135. artikuluaren kontra bozkatu genuela Madrilen, hemen behin eta berriro kontra agertu garela. Nik ez dut esan "he said he doesn't have art writing." What I have said is that Bildu in the Basque Parliament has taken a lot of fondness for the coupe-pega, that the first two paragraphs of the initiative they have presented are short-pega, from the first letter to the last, of another document, not that he has no writing art, which can also be concluded from that fact that they have no writing art. "Economia interpretatzeko ikuspuntu neoliberala". Eta nik datua eman said, Eustatek emandako datua. In 2013, the Basque Government had a deficit of 750 million to finance the Basque model of social protection, health and education, and a surplus of 108 million. And I tell you to judge, to conclude which of the two issues is more significant than a neoliberal policy. And I'm also going to read you the things you say. "In the event of non-compliance with the budgetary stability objective, an economic and financial plan shall be drawn up to enable the objectives referred to above or the expenditure rule to be met in the current and next year." You also say: "Non-final revenues that are higher than expected will not be able to finance new expenses and will have to be allocated in full to reduce living debt or avoid new debt operations." They also say: "In the event that the budgetary settlement delivers a cash balance for positive overheads, it will be intended entirely to reduce the living debt or to avoid new borrowing operations." Y Para terminar, vuelvo a desire to find out what he thinks he's dead, though perhaps you don't say that. You said: "We've got a chance to go in the new direction." And my question is our team's question: and why didn't you take that direction when you were in this position? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 19; contraries, 54; white; 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u71	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 10; contraries, 52; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u72	It is not therefore accepted to be the correction of the integer. And we're going to vote for Misto-UPyD's correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 1, contrary, 72; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u73	Therefore this correction has not been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal as a party of the laws of Misto-UPyD about reading. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a proposal. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u74	Thank you, President. Last July 20, but not this year, but 2009, UPyD recorded a parliamentary initiative to request the then Government's Department of Culture to develop a comprehensive plan for the promotion of reading, especially for schoolchildren, which could also foster social awareness of the importance of reading. As a result of that initiative, which was discussed on 16 November 2009, a broad agreement was reached in that committee and the following compromise was signed: "The Basque Parliament urges the Government to continue to develop actions to promote reading and to develop, in collaboration with entities and institutions with competence in this field, a comprehensive plan that specifically complements actions aimed at the whole population and that also fosters social awareness of the importance of reading in all areas of society". The Plan for the Promotion of Reading was presented during an event held on 18 April 2012 at the headquarters of the Basque Parliament, in the relevant committee. The plan was seen as a new generation plan, designed in the digital society and oriented to the use of reading not only in leisure time, but as a tool that transforms intelligence into innovation and knowledge generation. The Plan for the Promotion of Reading, which we managed to get started by the Basque Government through this modest initiative, was structured into 23 projects, in order to respond from practice to objectives such as improving reading and writing skills, and was aimed at articulating the efforts of many actors to place reading among the educational and cultural priorities of society. The then advisor, Mrs Urgell, then stressed that the plan contemplates the habit of reading as a tool to create employment and stressed that intelligence is the necessary raw material and of greatest value that our society has, which justified the plan defining reading as an instrument to exercise intelligence, to turn it into innovation and to translate that innovation into wealth and progress. In addition, in the Committee on Culture, both the adviser and the vice-adviser, Mr Rivera, explained that among the main points of the initiative was intended to make reading one of the educational and cultural priorities of society, which I believe we all share today. Mr Basanta, referring to the advisory work carried out by the Germán Sánchez Ruiperez Foundation, stressed the importance of an initiative that explicitly and decisively not only contemplates reading from the instrumental point of view as skill or skill, but defines it as a strategic factor of growth, even in the economic and labor sphere, as well as of social vertebration and enrichment. "The progress of our society", Mr Basantam pointed out, "will only be possible in the formation of independent citizens, with criteria, creative and committed, permanently open to knowledge, interested in what happens around them, able to understand and adopt any of the positive developments in their environment and endowed with a real social commitment, since in all this reading provides us with an indispensable help". Mr Basanta highlighted the special attention given by the plan to the presence of reading at school, or the value given to the improvement of school libraries. The plan was structured into 23 projects, which sought to respond from practice to four main objectives: one, to improve the reading and writing skills of Basque citizens; to improve reading rates; to improve the possibilities of access to reading; and to place reading among the educational and cultural priorities of society. A number of projects were under way at the end of the last parliamentary term. The study on library services for the twenty-first century, with 30 experts and 2,000 surveys as a basis for developing the proposed services offered by the public network. The development of an online tool for updating and improving the public reading map. Reading campaigns in companies. Creation of a web space for advice. Library services in health centres. Publications. Reading guides. Digitization of local funds of municipal public libraries, with coordination with Liburuklik, the Basque digital library. The unique booklet for the public libraries of Euskadi. Or the creation of a support service for reading clubs and dialogical literary chats. On 17 February 2015, we wanted to know exactly what this Government was doing in relation to all these issues that are very relevant, and that day we received an answer from this Government to a number of questions raised by this group. The Councilwoman of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture gave us an overly brief answer to our understanding of a matter that, although not a media issue, we consider very relevant. She explained in that reply a series of actions that were being carried out by the agents of this Government, and although almost all of those measures or all of those measures we consider to be absolutely essential and all of them very interesting, what was intended with this initiative was to tell the Government that it has to continue along this line, to try to finish the work promoted by the previous Government, and to implement all the actions that are necessary to encourage reading in Basque. I believe that on this issue, although it is not a media issue, I believe it is a relevant issue, all that is done is little. It is therefore good that these matters can be discussed in this Parliament every certain time and that the government does not take offense at it, and that the group that supports the government does not take offense at it either. I mean, there's always things to do. And therefore, the aim of this initiative is to say to the Government: what was done during the past was good, it actually emerged from a modest UPyD initiative, things remain to be done, some of these things are being carried out during this legislature, but there are many more things that need to be done, apart from completing the work initiated by this Government itself. And that's why we wanted to record this initiative. It is, I say, a question of encouraging the Government not to forget this issue, perhaps not in the media, but it is very relevant. Hence our initiative and hence the compromise that we have signed with the only group that has amended this initiative. What does this transactional say? We propose to urge the Basque Government to continue and complete the actions initiated by the past Basque Government, included in the Basque country's Reading Plan approved in the past legislature, aimed at promoting reading and promoting social awareness of its importance, to continue to develop all the actions implemented during the current legislature and to implement all the new initiatives necessary to achieve these objectives. We also ask the Government to appear in the relevant committee, to explain all these initiatives it is implementing, which it is carrying out over the past few months, as well as their budgetary impact and the approximate timetable for implementation. I think it's a more than reasonable initiative. I think it's a very interesting initiative, even if it's not very media. I believe that this is one of those initiatives that should be adopted unanimously. It is a well-intentioned, positive initiative that seeks to control the Government, to place duties on it, to follow up on what it is doing and to try to take new steps. I think it would be interesting if it were adopted unanimously so that we could also see that the 75 Members of this Parliament are in favour of promoting and promoting reading between Basque citizens. That simple fact that it was adopted unanimously would already be positive, it would already be very important to bear in mind. The truth is that UPyD does not usually bring initiatives to this Parliament that achieve great unanimity, but I believe that this particular initiative can be one of them. We present it with constructive will and so that it can move forward and that we can continue to control the Government. Thank you very much to the Socialist Group for signing the compromise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u75	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, Mr. Azkue, the Basque Socialist, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u76	Mrs. President, Mr President, chief physician. On the 18th of April 2012, he presented himself at the Basque Act of Reading the Readers. It was structured in 23 projects, to improve the capacity of reading and writing, and to remove the reading into the higher culture and education of the society, to choose the efforts of many agents. The fact that three long years have passed since the submission of this plan, that there has been a change of Government, others responsible for cultural and educational affairs, that this ambitious but feasible plan has hardly been implemented, gives us anything but a signal of alarm. It is true that the various administrations have proclaimed the need to promote reading, which has laid the foundations for this. But it is also true that the results are not entirely hopeful, at least for those who believe that reading gives us a unique pleasure, that is to move us through worlds that otherwise we would hardly see. The evil is ancient, already Cicero complained of the scant passion of the young Romans for reading. One of the great problems of society is that there are increasing differences between rich and poor, as there are between cults and non-cults, between those who read a lot and everything, and those who barely open a leaf, unless it is from a sports newspaper. But few have come to believe that the cultural divide will be the long, more important than the democratic economic gap, which presupposes the equality of all citizens when imagining, reflecting and making decisions. Besides, it can be avoided. A research published in Canada shows that for an economic growth of a country, in the sector of the minimum population, a rise of reading and mathematics is more important than the improvement of professional training. Reading teaches many things, some good and others bad. Good books give answers to questions we have not asked, nor have we managed to dream. Reading frees us and somehow binds us to what we have been and do not want to stop being. There are books that convey the feeling of limit and others of infinity. Designing policies for book and reading is an arduous task that requires a long-term vision. Looking at the long term means not losing sight of the policy objective, and it also means setting short-term objectives. It means prioritizing, because the resources of the Administration are limited. The resources should be distributed, trying to favour those who have less, those who have less cultural facilities, libraries, to promote policies in neighbourhoods that, because they are far from the urban centre, have little cultural but social weight. It is not the same, speaking of Donostia, a reading policy directed from the center Koldo Mitxelena that from the House of Culture of Intxaurrondo. It is also necessary to design policies for the promotion of euskera in neighbourhoods far from the centre, where its presence is not so high. On the other hand, it is necessary to encourage the participation of authors in the promotion of reading. Basque writers, euskaldunes or not, are quite accessible. On the verge of the linguistic issue, considering writers as they are, we should include them all in a non-sectarian and partisan policy. For us to understand each other, it is about creating chains that unite the authors with the readers. From the various governments, autonomous and outlaws, with the help of the Basque Writers' Association, writers' visits to educational institutions have been organized. Extending such a formula to houses of culture would be a way to enhance the link between the creator and his audience. Although the library deficit persists, each of the existing libraries must function in its entirety. 100 poorly managed and poorly stocked libraries serve to increase the per capita library index yes, but not to transform the readership of the population. There is no more crucial thing than the quality of persons within the scope of the book and of the reading. Human capital is harder to develop than capital library. A good bookseller is hard to find, but not a good book. Any policy of promoting reading must be based on the idea that promoting reading is promoting democracy. Whoever reads and writes, acquires autonomy, becomes more master of his life. In a society with good levels of reading, autonomy, diversity and plurality are respected and promoted, which does not mean the proliferation of different voices, but rather dialogue between these voices. Any policy of promoting reading brings with it a policy of promoting publishing and also requires the care of the authors and that they can devote themselves worthyly to the noble art of writing. This is the contribution we have wanted to make to this non-legislative proposal that we are debating. This is our reflection, which seeks that the plan presented on April 18, 2012 should not be left in the water of drunkards, so that our young and not so young can enjoy poetry with Aresti, Celaya, Blas de Otero or Felipe Juaristi; that they travel to worlds narrated by Sarrionaindia, Luisa Etxenike, Saizarbitoria, Ramiro Pinilla or Bernardo Atxaga; and, of course, that they enjoy the universality of reading with Cervantes, Pío Baroja, Mikhail Sholokhov or Shakespeare in English, because the latter will lead us to live in a trilingual society thanks to the effort of parliamentarians like Isabel Celaá. Let them read and that we read more in our case, because from reading we achieve rigour. And rigour is what citizens ask of us, they demand of us in our parliamentary functions, as holders of political rights that they are. Those citizens to whom we offer the encouragement of reading, recalling the definition of citizens that we would get by reading to the Greek sages: the free inhabitant of the ancient cities. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u77	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Passing over to the teams that have no corrections, Mrs. López de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u78	Thank you, Madam President. I use this turn to set the position of the People's Group. To say that the initiative that the UPyD group is presenting at this time, as has been said, originates in that compromise amendment that we signed in 2009, which was then presented in 2012, and that we share the initiative that has been presented by UPyD, because ultimately what is requested is to continue the development of the plan and evaluate the plan. And it seems logical to us, something that should be required for all the plans and strategies that are developed and presented by the Government: to evaluate. It seems to us prudent that after three years it should be evaluated, one can see which of those general objectives envisaged by the plan, which were 4, 20 specific objectives and 18 actions or lines of action, which work, which do not, which can be implemented, which do not, why; in addition to the 27 projects that also contained the plan. An integral plan with six axes, which seem important to us and which somehow define what the whole plan is: read to learn, read to innovate, read to literacy, read to create, read to share and read to live together, which was said by the vice-counsel who presented the plan at that time together with the counselor. We share the compromise amendment that has been made, we also share the reflections that have been made in favour of the habit of reading, of promoting reading and the importance of reading in all orders of society and for all groups. Our vote will therefore be in favour of the compromise amendment that has been signed and, as Mr Maneiro said, we hope that it will be adopted unanimously. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Breñas, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u80	Thank you and good noon to everyone. It seems that I am here to contradict this matter, because we see no great sense of the proposal, and therefore we did not make any correction. Besides, if it were to do something substantial, it seemed to us that it was late, just at the very last stage of the law. And in that sense, we don't find it very serious. In our opinion, if the Cultural Department is taking steps, encouraging libraries and readings, arranging and co-ordinately. On the one hand, the book clicked, the digital library, the library, the digital loan, the web, and on the other, they had to stabilize, stabilize, stabilize the library-network, put in also the Donstrosia and the Saints; and finally, by the book card, to encourage its production, however much it may be done in this area. At the time of the law, when you're reading, it's given priority to digitalization and accessibility, and that's what we agree with. That's right, the review we're talking about is being heard on Cultural Head, but I'll repeat again, it's full of ethnic criticism we've done for Christmas, but I'll go on while there's 816163 of Spanish books, but it's not a regular 581 but it's not. And so we ask the department to make a special effort to increase the number of eucharal books from now on. Thus it seems to us thatUPyD seeks not protagonism but does not seek it, because it is a sterile discussion, so that we shall not enter into this game, we shall not vote for it, and we shall abstain from it in the middle of this case. We believe that in this country the reading will not be fostered, and that it will not continue to be fostered byUPyD, and still less by this initiative. For, as I said, though it may be done more, yet it is because they are already making steps. Yet what has been said is very little of eucalyco titles, and this is also a sign of the lack of weight which this government gives to the support of its budgets, and this also is a matter of great concern to us. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u81	Eskerrik asko, Breñas andrea. Euzko Abertzaleak taldearen ordezkaria, Arieta-Araunabeño jauna, zurea da hitza. ARIETA-ARAUNABEÑA IBARZABAL jaunak: Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Lehendakari, salburua, legebiltzarkideok, etrudi on denoi. Reading is not just a cultural competence linked to personal enrichment and development. It is also a basic competence in the knowledge and learning society. It is therefore a fundamental instrument in the personal, social and economic development of a country. The development of reading skills depends on multiple factors, including family, school, social drive to lifelong learning and libraries. That is why the Basque Government is promoting and coordinating actions to promote reading in the school sphere, in the development of the Law on Long-Life Learning and in the network of libraries in Euskadi, fulfilling in a more than reasonable way the main objectives of the Plan for the Promotion of Reading and with new instruments that improve the design of the plan itself, such as, among others, the Law on Long-Life Learning and eLibraty. I ask you a question on the basis of the statements you have made here. On the basis of what data do they say that the development of the plan is not complete or that the plan is not evaluated? Have you asked about it? I do not think there is a need for a GNP to ask the Government to see what it is doing, whether it really wants to know what it is doing, whether it is with regard to the development of the plan, or with regard to its evaluation. In the end, we are faced with a compromise proposal which all it does is give Mr Maneiro a good chance. We are now discussing an initiative that is being put forward on the basis of a government response in February, which is being presented on 27 July with the argument, certainly objective and compelling, that the actions carried out by the current executive are not ambitious enough. As can be seen, this is an undisputed argument, based on a rigorous analysis of the Government's actions. And the proposal is brought to us today, nine months later, which further deepens the rigour of Mr Maneiro's argument to justify it. Given what has happened so far with the previous speakers, what are we, repeating the April 2012 data? What are we repeating it for? As it is clear that we are not in the substantive debate on the matter, I will answer with another undisputed argument to reject the proposal, and it is that the Government is acting in an appropriate manner. This could end, but I cannot resist saying that, given the trajectory of the proposal in terms of dates and reasoning, we are faced with a totally non-disciplined action, which does not contribute at all to the promotion of reading and which must be framed in Mr Maneiro's strategy of limiting his parliamentary action to a small number of ideas and repeating them tirelessly, presenting them again and again from different perspectives but converging on the same concept. This seems to us to be a parliamentary fraud, so we will vote against the proposal. And in the meantime, we will continue to promote reading by acting with due rigour. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u82	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. Passing on the answering round, Mist, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u83	Thank you, President. Many thanks to Mr Azkue and Mrs López de Ocariz for their support for this more than reasonable initiative. And thank you for the arguments that you have added to this idea, which I believe, as I say, is perfectly reasonable, beyond the fact that EH Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party have called it an occurrence. Let's see, the year 2009 is presented an initiative by UPyD to ask the then government to present a plan for the promotion of reading. Indeed, almost three years later, we managed to get the Government to present this plan among all groups. And from the presentation of that plan, a number of initiatives are being launched that I believe have had a positive impact on society as a whole. Once it has been three years, that is, not the following month, not the six months, but once it has been three years, we consider it appropriate to bring this matter back to the Basque Government to say again, "hey, stay in line with the previous Government, because there are many things that can be improved in this matter." Mr Arieta and Mrs Bildu, do you consider that everything is already done in this field? Is there nothing to improve? Do you consider that all of us read enough? Do you consider that young Basques, schoolchildren, etc. read enough? Do you consider that all the objectives set out in that plan have already been achieved? Do you consider that all the work is already perfectly done? We think that no, that there are always things to do. On the one hand, continuing to work for what is already being done, we were indeed able to see through this parliamentary response that the Basque Government is taking certain measures but, of course, there is always room for improvement. In any case, I am not going to fight with you on this issue either. I think it's a common sense. Mrs Breñas does not see any point in it, believes that it is out of place, because it is presented at the end of the legislature, beyond the fact that it is still a year short, and considers that this is an initiative that presents UPyD to have a leading role. I sincerely do not believe that this particular initiative will give me great press headlines, but if you consider that we are presenting this initiative in order to gain prominence, in short, you yourself. Mr Arieta describes it as an occurrence and says something that really prides me: he believes that defending the promotion of reading is one of the great obsessions of the UPyD legislature. This is the first initiative we have presented in the last parliamentary term, the second in six years, but you consider it to be one of the great obsessions of UPyD. And it is a parliamentary fraud to ask the government to encourage and launch new initiatives to promote reading. I thought this initiative was going to be adopted without further ado, until they said to me, "I think it is Mr Arieta who defends this matter in the Basque Parliament," and I say, "there may be some problem that there is actually no unanimity." Mr Arieta, don't be so sectarian, don't hate UPyD so much, it's not so much, we're just one. It is an initiative for the promotion of reading, a positive initiative to encourage the Government to continue to take action, to continue to do what it is doing and to initiate new initiatives in this field. How do you not agree with this initiative, Mr Arieta? "To continue and complete the actions initiated by the past Government included in the Reading Plan of the Basque Country". "Continue developing all the actions implemented during the current legislature and implement all the new initiatives that are necessary for the achievement of these objectives". And that, in addition, the adviser may appear in the committee to explain all these actions. Man, I don't think this is an initiative so that it can be treated that way, but in the end, you yourself, Mr Arieta. I think it is a reasonable initiative, in positive terms, I did not intend to gain prominence in presenting this initiative, I thought there would be unanimity. There won't be. In any case, what we will do first will be to ask the counsellor to appear so that all these actions she is carrying out can be explained and also explain to us what other actions she is going to put in place. I think a good shot against sectarianism is to read more. Mr Arieta, read more, we all read more, in Spanish, in Basque and in English, no matter what language you read, it has no greater importance, it has no relevance. What matters is the content. And, in this case, encourage the government to this goal, which I thought was shared, but which has not been randomly shared by nationalist formations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u84	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u85	I'll scream. On the one hand, I am glad that we are discussing and discussing the importance of reading among ourselves. And I am also pleased that all groups are in the idea of continuing to defend that plan presented in 2012 and that it involved a strategy and ideas of the Basque Country's reading plan, a strategic map of a Basque Country's reading plan project. He kept logically and maintained three opportunities: a multilingual plan and something else, a overcoming of a model of creating a new one, and a reading plan in a digital context. We agree on that, we will agree to follow the plan logically. But there is one issue that has brought me out, if I hadn't said so from there, and it's why the negatives to the evaluation. In politics, to deny evaluation is to deny politics, to differentiate whether we are doing things right or wrong. In fact, stop again in the reading of what is requested in the amendment, because to evaluate is to be democratic.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u86	Eskerrik asko, Azkue jauna. López de Ocariz anderek ez du hitzik hartuko. Breñas anderek ez du hitzik hartuko. Arieta-Araunabeñona jauna, zurea da hitza. ARIETA-ARAUNABEÑA IBARZABAL jaunak: Everyone agrees: neither the GNP nor the transaction serve anything that the Government is not already doing. There is no need for a GNP to ask the Government what it is doing. Another issue is Mr Maneiro's strategy. What do you mean by continuing and completing the actions initiated by the previous government? Look, it is not in vain that the Long Life Learning Act has been passed in this Parliament and that the eLibrary project has been launched. Again I ask, what data are they based on to say that the development of the plan is not being completed? What are they based on to say that it is not being evaluated? Do you understand that compliance would only be worthwhile if the 23 proposals were fulfilled in their literality? Do you, like Mr Maneiro, want to emphasize the literality of the 23 projects rather than the objectives of the plan? Has it not been three years, will the plans not be updated and adapted to the reality of the moment – assessment, gentlemen, evaluation – and more if their objectives are maintained? Have you not asked here today, and Mr. Azkue has just come out exclusively for this, the evaluation of the plan? What do you think the government is doing and why do you think it's acting like it's doing? But that's what Mr. Maneiro feels wrong about, that's what Mr. Maneiro feels insufficient about. What happens is that then we see why it has brought the initiative, in the background nothing at all. Look, Mr. Maneiro, you say I'm a sectarian. Look, if something has become clear to us throughout your speeches in this Parliament, it is that you, and talking about reading a lot to Debels and giving books that contain, you say, the absolute truth. He has dedicated himself here to distributing books to us by authors who for you are the whole, the truth practically revealed. Look, you're going to allow me to recommend that you extend your readings to other authors to understand what democracy is, because the ideological political practice that emerges from your parliamentary action is not precisely democracy. You show yourself as the thinking head and guardian of society, the sole possessor of truth. You have come to accuse even of liars and patrons, and defend the unique thought of all the other groups in the House, all of them, a few days ago you here. In what ideology do you frame this attitude? If you consider, Mr. Maniro, that you have sufficient authority to formulate the first point of your proposal, you ought to think at the same time that the independent community of Esscal is the society of the independent people, of the standards, of the creating, and of the compromises. Those who are entirely open to knowledge, who are interested in everything that happens about them, who are able to understand and accept all their positive evolutions, and that it is the society of those who have engaged themselves to society, and that they do not read only the books you recommend, as you do, Mr. Maniero. That is why, because of everything I have just said about Basque society, you are voting so little for yourselves. They know exactly what they are voting for, because they are precisely prepared, because they read things different from what you advise. Look, today we are going to vote in favour of promoting reading and against your manipulation strategy, Mr Maneiro. Because we will vote against the transaction, which is justified in a false assertion: the lack of ambition in the actions of the government and the lack of evaluation of the plan to promote reading. It's just the opposite. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u87	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. Now that the discussion is over, we vote for the middle-direction signed by Mistto-UPyD and Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of the provinces 27; the contrary, 27; the whites, 0; abstainments, 19.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u88	As equality is, we vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of the provinces 27; the contrary, 27; the whites, 0; abstainments, 19.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u89	As equality continues, we'll vote again at the next gathering. Puntu honorara irritita, bazkaltzera joango gara, laurak art. The meeting was interrupted at two-and-twenty o'clock in the afternoon. The meeting resumed at four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u90	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting again. Forth point on the theme list: "Mutation, introduced by the members of the Ubeka Aranz and EH Collectors, concerning the injury inflicted on the persons who have been blind by the rear surgery. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs. Ubera, it's your word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u91	Good afternoon, everyone. Two weeks ago, the effect of our interaction in this Chamber itself is the motive we are talking about today. The end we seek by this motive is to proceed from words to actions, and to this end we place certain determinate and rational ends. What we propose to pass from words to action is the commitment to these parties, and especially to make the government, the member of the government, and the commitment to the injured, without any manner of introduction to our engagement. And this is not very rare, because often in the circles of the organizations, in the circles of the parties, we are left in the mere flux of words. Second, to take precise measures in this engagement. I mean, we don't want to have only one engagement to express solidarity, but we want to have a very precise proportion of the injured to make them agree with them, beyond the solidarity. And these measures, on the one hand, are the requital of all the injured, and the execution of the legal contributions and functions to which they are to be treated, are what we receive in this motive. That is to say, the active and precursor attitude of the Hosar, though we know that in the presence of such a fatal event, when there is a state of health, money does not solve everything and can never restore this health loss. We also demand that this solution, this compensation, be integrated and not limit it to a payment. That is to say, if these people, who have injured themselves, need a counsel, a juridic, or a social service, have a sort of open door. We know this is not the duty of co-operation, but we think it will be possible to open those doors by conversation, and at least to give them a choice. From one day to another, because these people have discovered that the project of their lives has changed, and that what was customary becomes unusual in their lives, and we all know what its influence is in the diary. And that's why we thought it important that we put that counsel on the table, that all the means of being that information should be open. We won't force anyone, but anyone who wants to have him there. And we have also to explain what has happened in order to take the measures which we have to take after it. We all know that there are protocols, that there are security protocols for clinical practice, and that even medicine that are used well. We know that everything can never be avoided or opposed to everything, but we think we can always think and take measures to improve things. Then that's also included in the motion. In a word, what we ask of Osax is that he should take care of himself and set his measures in motion according to his care and care. Don't turn your back on the people who have been damaged by surgery to release the rear, that's what we're asking for. And let this parliament follow, that these measures are fulfilled, and that he is directing what is approved to-day. After all, what we're planning is a partnership. Not everything about membership, leaving it on top of the Medical Department, so that we, too, all the teams, suggest our commitment, so that we can direct that concert. Tell them that all the groups have introduced corrections to our motion, that it is at last agreed and will be unanimous. And it seems to us that it is a pleasure and that we have fulfilled the purpose of our meeting all the time. Finally, the commitment to all parties, to all sorts of colors, really to guide and repair things, and it's not a little short. So I'll read the middle-page proposal, the Eucalists with the group, and the Basque Socialists together. I'll read Spanish: "The Basque Parliament expresses its solidarity with all those who have suffered the loss of vision as a result of surgical interventions carried out in different public and private health centres in our Autonomous Community. "It also expresses its commitment to follow up on the case, in order to ensure compliance with legal procedures, in order to compensate all affected citizens. "In this regard, once the persons concerned have been identified, we urge Osakidetza to conduct the property liability procedures initiated in relation to these surgical operations, in order to identify the existing responsibilities and to be able to make up for them as soon as possible. "We also urge Osakidetza to enable a dialogue process, so that agreements can be reached that satisfy the people concerned, and to provide them with the necessary information and advice throughout the procedure. "We also urge Osakidetza to continue with the investigation necessary to clarify what has happened and to be able to take appropriate measures, such as, where appropriate, taking legal action against the pharmaceutical company that supplied the health product, as well as those related to safety improvement protocols and clinical practices to prevent similar occurrences in the future." And finally, we're grateful for the support of all the teams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u93	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Very briefly, in the first place to join the agreement. As Mrs Ubera has said, this must be a commitment by the parties and Osakidetza, and it is common sense to do so, so I believe that the effort that we have been able to do more or less must necessarily bear this fruit. To thank the initiative too, we must tell Mrs Ubera that it is appropriate, that it is timely and also by facilitating this type of agreement and this type of reference from the Basque Parliament much better in relation to a question like this. She has read the compromise amendment, and we are going to vote in favour. And indeed the basic concepts there are reflected. Firstly, as it cannot be otherwise, solidarity from this Parliament, from our group of course, but from all of this Parliament with all the people who have suffered from this loss of vision, these shortcomings, those mistakes, that which is still to be definitively clarified in relation to the surgical interventions carried out in different health centres, we must say so, centres in Osakidetza and centres that are not in Osakidetza. As it should also be remembered that there are not only 13 of them seem to be affected in the Basque Autonomous Community, but there are also 41 affected in other autonomous communities, there are the data and the autonomous communities: Andalusia, Aragón, Canarias, Extremadura, Valencia are autonomous communities that have also suffered, and their public health and private health. And especially those affected, 41 people in principle, these poor surgical interventions. Parliament's commitment to carry out this follow-up to the case does indeed have to be done, and the members of the Basque Parliament's Health Committee will certainly be awaiting this whole issue. It is clear that in this regard, once these affected persons have been identified, it is logical to ask Osakidetza to process the procedures of patrimonial responsibility, and it will have to do so. The law also says that you have to do it, there are surely responsibilities. And in that regard, we also appreciate that the agreement, as we intended in the amendment of the whole, talks about this process of dialogue, in order to be able to reach agreements on the basis of information, advice, responsibilities and claims, to open that process of dialogue. And in that regard also urge Osakidetza to continue these investigative proceedings. It seems that there are still issues to be clarified in relation to the output, in relation to interventions. We will know to the fullest, precisely to then act conveniently with the law in hand on this issue and certainly give satisfaction to those affected in their pretensions. It is also quite clear that the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Sanitary Products is working, there is a line of research, the current situation is that it is being carried out in coordination with the autonomous communities, I have previously referred to the affected autonomous communities. A three-line investigation is under way. A clinical line with healthcare professionals who have used the product, the agency is maintaining contact with professionals who have reported the incidents. A survey has also been sent through the autonomous communities to the Spanish centers that have used the product, in order to obtain the opinion of the professionals on the behavior of the product, the results of this survey are being analyzed. Also an analytical research, samples have been sent to an ophthalmology research institute in Valladolid for chemical and toxicological analysis. This line of research is also carried out in coordination and that is what the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Sanitary Products says with the Basque Government. And there is also a technical research line of the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Sanitary Products, it has held meetings with the manufacturer company, which is German and the Spanish distributor, and at these meetings it is collecting documentation on the manufacturing process and the controls carried out, the investigation that the manufacturer is carrying out on the Spanish cases. The German company has been required to carry out chemical, physical and toxicological analyses, and the Spanish Agency for Medicinal Products and Sanitary Products is evaluating the results. That's where we have to stay. But in any case, what we have adopted is important, it has to give guarantees, it has to give security to those affected and it has to take responsibility and do so with the law in hand, but of course with the realism that a subject like this entails. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u94	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, 41 affected by perfluorooctane in Spain in the different autonomous communities, of which 13 in the Basque Country, 8 in the Donostia Hospital, 1 in Cruces and 4 in some private centre. That until June 2015, in which the similarity of the cases with these adverse effects was reported. It was reported, communicated to the Spanish Medicines Agency, which immediately contacted the company and stopped the dispensation of this product. In addition to the cases known in the different Autonomous Communities and in Euskadi, there are also cases in France, there have also been cases in Italy, and finally even in England. Therefore, there is a common factor, which is a product, which by the way has been in use for twenty years. So the question we ask ourselves is is is the product toxic? Well, until now, it wasn't. But has there been any modification of this product in the manufacture, in the preservation system, in the dispensation? Finally, these are questions that researchers ask themselves. Not only chemical and toxicological analyses, but also on this other type of product chain, from manufacture to final destination. The Basque Government, as it is its duty to have had responsibility for cases in its possession, must indeed be interested in studying all these details that we have just pointed out. Because, of course, Osakidetza has an objective responsibility, it is who has put the hospitals, it is who has put the hospitals where the cases have occurred, who has provided the doctors, the media, the products with which he has operated, that is, there is an active participation of Osakidetza in this with a number of adverse effects. It is therefore up to him to intervene, to study what has happened and to see responsibilities of his own and others, and when these responsibilities are cleared, to demand effectively the consequences arising from these responsibilities. In the meantime, there is a task to be done with the victims, which has already been mentioned here: solidarity on the part of Parliament as a whole, also of our parliamentary group; support for patients; information on the steps being taken and the measures to be taken; and advice to enable them to participate in the complaints, because the complaints, which are doubtful, must be individual. As we say, interventions that have already been launched and that from here we want to continue to drive and support until the end, as I say, and we can know all the steps in the chain, where the problem is and demand the corresponding responsibilities. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Missto-UPyD, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u97	Thank you. Only to say that I will vote in favour of the transactional. We had tabled an amendment in its entirety. I understand that everything we put forward in this whole amendment, at least the fundamental thing, is reflected in the compromise. And indeed, as has been said, it is a matter of moving from words to deeds, making ourselves available to patients, caring for them, informing them and correcting everything that has been wronged. Finally, the agreement will come out unanimously, I think it is good news and we hope it will do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u98	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians, Mr. Orbehail, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u99	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. In the first place, we also wish to communicate solidarity with all the injured, solidarity, and support to all the injured. As has been said, 13 people in our community have suffered this misfortune, in two hospitals of which 9 of them are members, and in another private clinic, a specialized clinic. Unfortunately, it was more than the 9 people who had been to the Hosal Hospitals, and, as has been mentioned, we can't forget that there are more cases than 41 of the Spanish Medical Department's and Medical Productions. Besides, in France, in Italy, in Switzerland, it has been mentioned that in England also similar cases have been shown. And furthermore, that even the local authorities have decided to take away this product which is suspected of being removed. It must really be a difficult situation to lose sight of one of the eyes for anyone. It is understandable, therefore, that we wish to express the grief of these persons, and consequently our solidarity with them all. Therefore, first of all, on behalf of our parliamentary group, I would like to express our solidarity with all those people who have lost sight of one eye after having been involved this summer. We have no doubt that we all share this feeling in this Chamber, and from that point we have been able to agree to the medium, and we are really glad of it. So thanks also to the representatives of the groups that have signed the medium for their behavior and the other teams who will vote side by side. We all agree on the basis of the fact that the injured are permitted to observe the damage which they have suffered, and that every one may be able to pay his due compensation, and thus he foresees our legal order and its exact procedures. They have every right to execute them, and we protect that right, and we want to help them in that way. But in the same way, we want to point out the health department and the health experts and the doctors who were responsible for the members of the department have had their attitude in the face of this unfortunate accident. In fact, the first suspicions that had been dealt with in professional matters and with responsibilities came to the conclusion that the situation had not been rendered more serious. And moreover, they have employed all their resources in their power to inform and pronounce the injured persons at all times. And we want it to remain so, and therefore we think it proper to receive it also in the middle. And I think it is important to stress again that all – the parliamentary groups, the lehendakari, the Basque Government and especially the health adviser and the rest of the heads of the department and Osakidetza itself, as well as those and professionals of the Ophthalmology Service, the medical management of the University Hospital Donostia, Basurto or the Pharmacovigilance Service, all of us are concerned about what happened and we want to find the best solution to this situation. And in this sense, it is essential that from Osakidetza it is attended to and informed of the people affected from the very first moment and that it continues to offer maximum support in a personalized way. Because we will also not forget that it was the Ophthalmology Department of the Donostia University Hospital who quickly reported the problem detected and expressed their suspicion of the defective health product used in the interventions. Nor can we forget that, thanks to this rapid action, more cases have been avoided in both Euskadi and other autonomous communities and even in other countries of the European Union. So thank the professionals for their quick response and their attitude. And of course it is necessary to investigate what has happened and to be able to clarify the causes, the reasons, the judgments that may have existed. In fact, these proceedings have already begun and, as we know, the Health Adviser himself has already said that a sample of the lot of the product had even been sent to an independent university center specialized in this field. We have no doubt that all these investigations will help to clarify the facts better and that it will help to take the necessary steps for the future. But, in addition, the results of these analyses will be available to the rest of the patients affected, also those of the private centers, which, although not involved in Osakidetza, have also suffered damage and worry us. We think, then, that we succeed in providing, on the one hand, for our support and for our solidarity, to all who are injured. Besides, we want to confess to them that they have a right to observe the damage they have suffered. It is necessary to explain at once what had happened, how responsible it has been and how much damage it has been to each of us. For we cannot forget that the case is very wide, that there are not two equally equal cases, and it is necessary to determine the amount of responsibility and compensation suitable to each agent at once, and that all these things may be assured. As we know, they have already been contacted as members of Osar, and with their subordinates or advisors, and on this road, we must share the information with transparency, and provide them with all the conveniences and conveniences of managing the rights. Therefore, in conclusion, we are glad to confirm it by the agreement we have made, and thank you for our attitude towards all the groups.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u100	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Does someone want to participate in the answer shift? [[Pause]] Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH, the semi-correction signed by Euskal Socialists and Eucabertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 68; the supporters 68; the opponents, 0; white, 0; abstation, 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u101	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal, as the Julian Corps made, concerning the impulse of making employment in the regions of the Aura, in a weak condition. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs Garrido, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. President. In the name of the Populative Party, I will defend a specific proposition, and according to this proposal, we ask Euko Mitch to make a special plan for certain areas or villages in a state of distress or weakness in Aran. I think, and thus we believe in the Pional Party, that this proposition is very convenient and convenient. I rise to this rostrum to defend an initiative of the People's Party to have the Basque Government draw up a special employment plan for disadvantaged areas in Álava. We believe that this initiative is absolutely timely given that municipalities in the historical territory of Álava where there are high unemployment rates above 20% have been left out of the aid programme. The aid programme is based on an order from the Commissioner for Competitiveness and Economic Development, which is approved at the end of June. I regret that the Lehendakari is leaving at this time and that there is no member of the Government, but, well, throughout my speech I have some luck and someone is coming, more than anything, because we urge the Government directly on an important issue to our understanding and that it also seems to have been understood by the rest of the House. He said that this aid programme, the Indartu programme, is based on an order from the Economic Development and Competitiveness Adviser of 28 July 2015, in particular the order regulating the programme of subsidies to companies that make productive investment generating employment to boost the areas of the Left Margen, Ría Nervión and Oarsoaldea, is what is known as the Indartu programme. This programme forms part of a regional aid map which was approved by the European Commission in 2014 for the granting of regional incentives for the promotion of business investment. Therefore, the objective of this programme is to encourage productive investment and employment generation, which is directly linked to employment generation. The main axis of this program is to promote employment by an order in Europe, or by some assistance. This programme is based on positive discrimination, as it is intended for particularly disadvantaged areas with a high unemployment rate. The budget of the programme is EUR 8 million, non-reimbursable grants and can account for up to 10% of the investment. Curiously, and this was the reason for the presentation of this initiative, is that the aid provided for in this programme has been excluded from the territory of Spain, which, as I said earlier, has high unemployment rates, unemployment rates above 20%, and therefore no company based in any of these municipalities can benefit from this aid. Yes, on the other hand, municipalities that are located in the Margen Izquierda, in particular 7 municipalities, and yes municipalities that are located in the area of Oarsoaldea, 11 municipalities. I believe that we all share the need that, at a time of incipient economic recovery, in order to consolidate it, it is necessary to adopt measures that directly affect job creation and support the competitiveness of our businesses. This has to be translated into concrete measures which, above all, target the most disadvantaged areas or those areas where unemployment rates are highest. As I was saying, the municipalities of Álava have been left out. In particular, municipalities such as Llodio, Amurrio, Salvatierra, Oyón, where unemployment rates are above 20%. And no one escapes too, not only from the parliamentarians we are Alaves, but I also believe it is a question shared by parliamentarians from neighbouring territories, that Álava and these specific municipalities based in Alaves have their own unique characteristics, according to their demographics and their geography, that is, geographical and demographic peculiarities that make the recovery slower than it can be in other areas, and especially in comparison with other municipalities based in neighbouring territories, which certainly do have support. Therefore, to this fact is added what I have said before, that from the Indartu programme there are those companies that are based in the territory of Alava. And even these municipalities that I have pointed out have much higher unemployment rates than the municipalities that can receive aid under this programme. That is why, in view of the fact that no action has been taken to date by the Basque Government, which is the competent institution, because it has competence in active employment policies and also in industry. In view of the fact that no specific plan has been designed by the Basque Government to compensate for the territory of Alava and, in particular, these municipalities. Taking into account also what I have pointed out of the special demographic and geographical situation of these Alaves areas. Also taking into account the situation faced by the Alaves companies, with a return of EUR 224 million for tax holidays. Taking into account also the weight of the industry's GDP in Alava in relation to the three territories. And also taking into account the recent appearances of the Budgets, where the Employment and Social Policy Adviser, who I also regret that he cannot be in this debate today, I imagine that he will have more urgent issues to attend to, because he is always in the debates in this Parliament. He said that given that the adviser, when asked specifically about this issue, told us that there was no specific plan for the most disadvantaged areas of the historical territory, we considered it appropriate to put this initiative forward for debate in this House. And above all, I think it is more topical when we see that there is not a specific budget formulation and plan for these areas, and given that they have been excluded from the programme to which it refers. We believe from the People's Party that there is clear discrimination against the municipalities I have pointed out earlier, which have these unemployment rates, even higher than the municipalities that can benefit from these aids. In this regard, we urge the Basque Government to proceed with the creation of a special programme to support the generation of employment in the less-favoured areas of Álava, in collaboration with the Foral Diputación de Álava, particularly linked to the local development of the affected groups and municipalities. In another place, the Basque Bill asks the Red People to examine other options and finance sources for jobs, as well as in the state and Europe. And on a third point, the Basque Law demands the Indemnity, the Affirmative, and the State government to create a plan for green and secure employment, which will help in the territory of Arabeza, and in the Eukadin, or in the State, to resist unemployment. I want to thank the willingness of all groups, this agreement will come out unanimously in this House, I understand that it is a shared concern. And now all that remains is that this Government, of which there is no representative at this time, should get to work and sooner rather than later let us look at this special employment plan for the less-favoured areas of Álava, because we believe that it is necessary and that it would of course alleviate or remedy the situation in which the Alava municipalities, in general the historical territory of Álava, have been found, which has been excluded from the aid provided for in the Indartu programme. Therefore, thank the groups, and we will be careful to see whether the Basque Government fulfils the parliamentary mandate. Besterik gabe, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u103	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Rocko, the representative of the EH Collect Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u104	Good afternoon, everyone. The business, the measures to create a social employment, the impulses, are certainly necessary, and thus we have more than once expressed. That's why we agree with what's been proposed in the quadrangle of the Popula team. In order to create employment in the weakest parts of the Arabs, we are required to take measures to encourage employment, and we are allowed to do so. Yet what he says to her, and what Mrs Garrido has just said here today, is not quite true and exaggerated. The ancestor hasn't been in charge of the appraiser, he says; that's what you're going to send to him after all. And when we all know that in the criteria established by the European Union, it is impossible to introduce a district of Araba by means of this program, because there are no more than 50,000 inhabitants among these conditions in the case of the Arabs. But that doesn't mean Araban isn't in trouble and Araban doesn't have to do anything. That doesn't mean that in the countries there are no countries and areas with a high rate of unemployment. There are, of course, no doubt, and very large ones, with a very large rate of unemployment. And in these it is necessary to take measures and to place the means. Some places have been mentioned, some villages. Araba also has areas where unemployment is worrying: Aiaraldea, Agurain, Oyón, Gasteiz. In Aiaraldea, Laudio, 17.9% unemployment, of which 22.3 are women. If we go to Amurrio, about 16. In Agurain, 16.3% unemployment; 18.9% women. Gasteiz, the same percentage, 16.3% unemployment, approximately 20,000 people, of which 11,000 are women. Oyon, 24.1; 26.6%, women. And in other villages of La Rioja they are between 14 and 16%. It is clear that since the beginning of the crisis in Araba there has been constant bloodshed of job destruction in the industry sector, while the working conditions of workers have worsened. We had a territory where industry was the basis of the economy. In 2008, the industrial sector accounted for 36,6 % of gross value added. In 2014, this figure had fallen to 31%. We are witnessing a continued closure of companies, new EREs, relocations of companies to other countries and territories, and also with little expectation that this bleeding could be stopped if decisive measures are not taken to recover industrial activity. That is why we share the need to promote measures to promote job creation in Araba, especially in the most disadvantaged areas with high unemployment rates. To this end, the industrial fabric needs support for its recovery in the form of investment, which allows the industrial sector to make a transition to a modern and qualified model, adapted to the real needs of our land, respectful of the environment, energetically sustainable and conducive to the construction of a solidarity economic and social model. On the other hand, in the gathering of the 15th of October, we discussed here a proposition brought by the EH collect, which we agreed with the Socialists, and which was accepted in this legislature. What we said then is also valid in the discussion of today. In the first place, public policies to encourage unemployment and the most weak of the country are indispensable. Secondly, Publique Policy, and Scheduling must be founded on the ordinary and ordinary life of men, in the Countries, and in the Quadrigues of the Arababas. Considering the needs and options of the district, the needs of the quadrirals, diagnosed by the local operators. For that, in the budget, the third thing is, it's got to be an exact share of money. When we discussed long-term unemployment, we demanded 20 million. It didn't admit that, but we think there must be a significant piece of money if it really wants an effective push to do it. And in this case in the land of Araba. And to answer the weakest parts of the Araba in a proper manner, these criteria, which I have mentioned, are absolutely necessary to examine and take measures from place to place. That's what we're defending here today. in place from local reality, starting with precise planning to re-establish areas, promote and promote industry in order to promote social employment. He who is to be admitted here today gets something out of the line of what I'm talking about. We'd like to be more specific to you, no doubt. But at any rate in the General Assembly of the Arabs, which is signed by one mouth and by all the groups, it seems to us to be a positive repetition in the legislature to-day. And also to promote the working of institutions, as is shown in this agreement. And that's why we agreed, just like we did at the General Assembly. This decision of the present day about the weakest parts of the Araba, and the former, which has been resolved to resist long-lived unemployment, is certainly well. But then, as I said before, if they don't reflect on budgets, if they don't get a fortune deal in a special way, it won't be worth anything and it'll be a sham. So let's discuss the budgets. At least that's what we're gonna do, and that's what we're doing. And in conclusion, I want to point out that a group of local developments are working on two specific areas in the legislature, the Left and the Oarso, the objective of determining the measures which are to be taken to promote other jobs and re-establish the industry. We hope it's a rich road. This path must also be useful for other areas, and in short, local development must be in order to strengthen public policies. And when we talk about sustainable local development, we are talking about a production system that reverses the development of peoples, regions and gangs. A system in which economic and social relations have a human dimension, a system that takes account of the history and characteristics of the territory, a system that prioritizes the conditions of people over the interests of large enterprises. This is our opinion, our wager, and we're working for it and we'll continue. And on the present and on this particular point, we shall assent to the proposal, for it was agreed in the General Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Basque Socialists, Lord Sea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u106	Indeed, the agreement that we are going to sign here has also been adopted, as has already been said, in the Junta de Álava, a territory most concerned with the issue that brings us here today. And to say briefly that, whatever the reasons that have led to the Indartu program only affects the territory of Gipuzkoa and the territory of Bizkaia in its corresponding disadvantaged areas, what is also true is that, historically, Álava also has hers – Ayala Valley, Oyón, etc. – and they have been commented upon. And the government has done well to benefit from such aid from Europe, yes, but from the point of view of cohesion and territorial vertebration it does not seem fair that a territory that also has needs does not have the corresponding compensation in the form of public aid, in order to correct its imbalances, just as the disadvantaged areas of Oarsoaldea in Gipuzkoa and Margen Izquierda in Bizkaia will be helped. We therefore believe that it was fair to support this initiative, most rightly having been signed by all the groups at the Arab Councils. And otherwise, we have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u107	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Carro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u108	Eskerrik asko, legebiltzarburu andrea. Eskerrik asko Toña salilburuari, hemen egoteagatik. Legebiltzarkideok, hold on. As you all know, in May 2014 the European Commission approved the Regional Aid Map 2014-2020, which allows less-favoured areas in Europe to receive 10% more aid without being considered State aid for Europe. The objective criteria for determining inclusion in these areas were determined by the European Union and the Member States, in our case the Government of Spain. Criteria requiring unfavorable indices and continuous population areas of 50,000 inhabitants within their own territorial unit, i.e. within Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, what they call the European level NUTS 3 territorial units. As the Map of Regional Aid on page 9, Spain has used the following socio-economic indicators: per capita income, unemployment rate and employment trends in the labour force. And the data used for these indicators were extracted from official statistics provided by the Spanish National Institute of Statistics. "Statistics on unemployment are the average unemployment rates for the period 2010-2012, i.e. the last three years for which these data are available, published by the National Institute of Statistics." These are text words from the Regional Help Map. What about the less-favoured areas of Álava? The same applies to other less-favoured areas of Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, because despite submitting this application to Europe for these areas, they were not accepted. Why? For failing to meet these unfavourable indicators, in addition to forming this continuous unit of at least 50,000 inhabitants. Therefore, they have remained out, with the particularity that in Alava no area has entered, because our municipalities are excessively small and it is impossible to obtain a continuous unit of 50,000 inhabitants, while in Bizkaia and in Gipuzkoa yes. Adopting in Bizkaia the Margen Izquierda and mining area, with 289,829 inhabitants, and in Gipuzkoa, the area of Oarsoaldea, with 167,619 inhabitants. That is why, in our initial amendment, we urged the Government of Spain to carry out the necessary studies to update the criteria for drawing up the Regional Aid Map 2014-2020 approved by the European Commission, so as to justify, if appropriate, compliance with the parameters for the inclusion of Álava or any of its areas as eligible territory for additional European aid, such as disadvantaged territory. And if the People's Party wants to work also in the line of updating these parameters so that between Alava or some of its areas facing the European Union, it has our hand stretched out to work for it. I will give only one example of how these indices could have been changed, only allowing disadvantaged areas to allow continuity between the territorial statistical units, i.e. the historical territories, would allow a contiguous area throughout the natural corridor of the Nervion River from the Ayala region to Basauri, without changing this criterion of 50,000 inhabitants, which perhaps for the European Union is more difficult to modify with 500 million inhabitants that the European Union has. What is the current picture of Euskadi and Álava? We see that Euskadi is, comparatively speaking, with better employment, equality, social cohesion and social protection rates than other autonomous communities, we start from indices of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country under much better conditions than in our most immediate environment, which is the rest of Spain. We have a magnificent system of social protection, which, together with employment, which is also of higher quality, has managed to withstand the economic crisis to a greater extent or with greater resilience than elsewhere. That does not mean that the economic crisis that plagues us has taken effect in some areas and in some places in a concrete way. In October 2015, the number of unemployed job seekers registered in Lanbide is lower than in January 2015. There is a decline in unemployment throughout the year, from January to October 2015, throughout the Autonomous Community and in Álava as well. According to the applicants for employment in Lanbide, we have reduced in the Basque Community by 17,566 unemployed, of whom 2,778 unemployed were Alaves. But we have to bear in mind that in Álava 80% of all our Alaveses, 19,752 according to the Lanbide census of October 2015, we have them in Vitoria. This is due to our large population concentration in Vitoria with respect to the territory of Alava, something that does not happen in Donostia, where they have 23% of all the Gipuzcoan unemployed, or in Bilbao, where they have 33% of all the Vizcai unemployed. Therefore, the City Council of Vitoria, with 80% of all the Alaveses, 19.752, follows them Laudio with 1,567 stops, Amurrio with 818 stops, Agurain with 451 stops and Oion with 409 stops. In the Ayala region – this is October 2015 according to Lanbide stop statistics – we have 2,716 stops. These municipalities did not meet the European Commission's parameters to be included in this map of regional aid, as we have said, maps that required such continuity and unfavourable indices, so that they have been left out. We will vote in favour of the compromise amendment, because, as we are dragging the agreement of the Alavesa Parliament here, where the People's Party has signed it and here, as it has not signed it, we will have to vote first against the proposal of the People's Party and then we will vote in favour of the compromise amendment by the rest of the groups. And I think it's positive, because deep down, whether the People's Party is firm or not, it's in the same line of work, so we think it's good to work in the same direction of job creation and economic growth. We see very timely the creation of this special programme to support the generation of employment in the less-favoured areas of Álava, in collaboration with the Foral Diputación de Álava, especially linked to the local development of the groups and municipalities concerned. Similarly, as we say in paragraph 2 of the compromise amendment, we urge the Basque Government to explore other possibilities and sources of funding for employment initiatives, both at European and state level. And we also offer our support to update the criteria for the elaboration of this Regional Aid Map 2014-2020 approved by the European Commission, so that compliance with the parameters for the inclusion of Álava or any of its areas as eligible for additional European aid as a disadvantaged territory is justified, if appropriate. In addition, we also offer our extended hand to the Government of Spain to specifically support the machine-tool sector, clarifying once and for all the marketing of the machine that can be classified as dual-use, as well as improving coordination between different ministries, avoiding the disproportion in the investigation of the exports of Alavese companies. Also in view of the growth of the territory of Alava, our hand also extended so that this incentive for the economic development of Alava includes the 24-hour opening of our logistics airport in Foronda, as well as the border inspection post. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u109	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. A group that hasn't issued any correction, Mist, Mr. Maneiro, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u110	I'm joining the consensus. I agree with the compromise that has been signed. I'll vote for her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u111	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Does anyone want to join the answering shift? [[Pause]] Now that we have finished our discussion, we will vote for the original text of the proposition of Euscala as the Potula Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 68; the supporters 10; the opponents are 58; the whites are 0,0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u112	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we vote for the Euscal Socialists, EH, and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 68; the supporters 68; the opponents, 0; white, 0; abstation, 0,0,0,0
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-11-12.u113	A word has been accepted by the half-path correction. Having exhausted the subject, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was four o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-eight.
