ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we begin, tell them that the first point has been withdrawn, and that the fourth and fifth have been left for another. Besides, the parliamentary Ana Ottadui has already voted. Second point on the subject list: "The same proposition as the Socialists of Euscal has made the legislatures, in order that the descent of the oil costs may at last be produced in a nearly equal proportion by the gasoline prices paid by consumers. Discipline and final resolution. The number on which the proposal has been made: Mr Prinett, it's yours to introduce and take care of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u1	President, ladies and gentlemen. The matter before us is related to gasoline, to the price of gasoline, to that permanent concern that citizens have had for many years in our country. Gasoline is no longer a consumer product; it is a unique product, because of its impact on the economy in general and also on the individual economy. The price of gasoline is a determining factor for the industry. It's for your development, it's for your recovery. It is also, and much so, for the chemical industry, or it is for transport. Therefore, the price of gasoline is important for the vast majority of consumer products, and therefore it is also important for the quality of life of people, for heating, for mobility, and for other uses. Talking about the price of gasoline and helping from politics to its reduction, in the current economic context, is an economic necessity and is also an act of social justice, because it depends on opportunities to facilitate the overall improvement of activities, and, with them, employment and care for those who suffer most from the crisis. Taking advantage of the instruments that policy has created to help this happen is an obligation that we have undertaken with the citizenry and that we are exercising in this Parliament today. This Parliament with this debate can and must influence this matter, urging the Government of Spain to act. This Parliament can and must draw the attention and action of those who must ensure free competition and pursue concerted practices, practices that do harm to the consumer. This Parliament can and must guide and help consumers to know and use the lowest prices for their economy. These reasonable and reasoned objectives are the ones that pursue this initiative and they are the ones that we want to share with all the political parties in this House. Some data are very illustrative of where we come from, where we are and where we should be in the future about the price of this product. In June 2014, the barrel of oil was paid at $114, just a few months ago. In October, less months ago still, at 84. This week it has been paid to 57, having at some point reached 47. In just two days of this week, for a price oscillation to be around 20% of the barrel price, it was enough with a report that assured that fracking in the United States had hit the roof. There came the immediate ascent. The descent occurred when another report was known that was in the opposite direction. International policy, each country's energy policy, supply and demand policy, are decisive factors in price, and it is by this weight of policy in this matter that we are talking about that policy must intervene in helping the individual and collective economy in this burdensome and speculative product for citizens. To date, what is going to be the evolution of oil prices is uncertain. As uncertain as certain is the war between producers to flood the market of interested forecasts so that some talk that the price will continue to fall and others that it will rise. In the meantime, what is left to us is to know how we face this problem, on which side we stand, what interests we protect and who we defend. Socialists choose the side that faces speculation. We want to protect the general interest of the economy, and we want to defend consumers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about anything unattainable. I'll give you more data. The average price of the oil barrel in 2012 was $110; in 2011, 107; in 2008, 45; in the same year it was quoted at 36. These huge variations, only when they are up, are quickly recognizable in the price of gasoline. As everyone knows, the price of gasoline paid by the consumer contains the price of oil, refining and processing, and a high percentage of taxes in the case of our country. This conglomerate of concepts that have an impact on the price of gasoline is often used to justify the slowness and lukewarmness with which price reductions are transferred. As I pointed out earlier, the price of petrol contains a high percentage of taxes; that is why its reduction directly affects collection, and that is why sometimes resistance and slowness are perceived to intervene from the policy itself. Spain consumes 1.2 billion barrels a day. We are talking about the consumption of a product that affects the general interest. According to a recent report, while oil has fallen by 22 % over a certain period of time, gas stations have improved their profit by 5 %. Gas stations which in turn are controlled by the few and large oil companies. Three companies distribute almost the whole market, companies that are both producers and refiners, companies that control the wholesale distribution network and also supply gas stations with their prices. Also these days the investigation has been made public to Cepsa, BP and Repsol regarding free competition, because these companies are permanently under suspicion of concerted practices. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday there were petrol stations selling diesel (today) at EUR 1.16, and others at EUR 0.98 and EUR 0.99/litre. It is clear that there are very broad trade margins, that there are margins of around 20% right now, and therefore there are reasons for them to be known and influenced to extend to more dealers. A very short time ago the litre was paid at 1.50 euros, with a barrel being paid at 114 dollars. Why today, that you pay the barrel at less than 57 dollars, you pay the liter at 1.16? Ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists with this initiative propose to this Parliament to use politics as an instrument to defend the collective interest, the interest of the economy in general, as a means of developing our opportunities and quality of life, and in defence of the interests of the consumer. The policy can and must put in defense of Basque citizenship its instruments; instruments that belong to it and that it pays with its taxes: the Basque Government, Kontsumobide, the Basque Competition Authority, are some of them. In our initiative, we urge the Government of Spain to take steps to ensure that free competition is respected, that intervention by operators is limited, that the possibilities of aligning commercial strategies between operators are weakened, and that competition between service stations is further encouraged. In our initiative we urge the Basque Government to take transparency measures, through the Basque Consumer Institute, to defend consumers. The functions assumed by Kontsumobide, in its Article 4(b), provide for the promotion and conduct of the necessary and evolving studies of consumption dynamics, with the aim of establishing the instruments and procedures that enable consumers and users to better choose the products and services most suited to their needs and requirements. And it is for this initiative, with this set of proposals, that we call for the support of this House. This initiative was amended by the Nationalist Group. That amendment by the Nationalist Group has given rise to a compromise amendment that we have just tabled. The compromise amendment summarises the two approaches: on the one hand, asking governments to intervene; on the other hand, asking the courts or the Competition Authority to intervene to prevent these concerted practices and to improve the price for consumer protection; and, on the other hand, urging these consumer protection mechanisms, such as Kontsumobide, to draw up a report that will guide and help citizens to choose, find, and also to influence the increasing proliferation of cheaper prices than they currently exist. I therefore call on all the groups that have not tabled an initiative to support this compromise amendment as well, and for this Parliament to act in the sense in which it has been drafted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u2	Thank you, Mr Price. Passing over to the teams that've been running the corrections. Mr. Telllería, the Eubertarian, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u3	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, all good days. Gómez de la Serna said that gasoline is the incense of civilization. Let's get down quick, let's be more pragmatic. Gasoline, or oil-derived diesel, even though it is strategic for a country's economy, works on average in Europe between a regulated sector and a free market sector. The states – and that is a key element in analysing the evolution of their price – use the consumption of these products as a very simple and cheap mechanism to collect taxes, and in the Spanish state about 50% of the fuel price, as Mr Prieto has already said, is tax. If the average price of petrol in Euskadi decreased by 20 % between January 2014 and January 2015, Brent oil fell from 107 to 52, i.e. more than 50 % of the price. In other words, gasoline does not mimetically follow the price of oil, except that it does so with temporary delay. Although, being rigorous, it must be considered that, on the one hand, as I said, 50% of the price is taxed (which, apart from VAT, is not linked to the final price, they are fixed quantities), and that it is necessary to know the Euro-dollar ratio, which, by the way, has suffered during the period since October – the date on which this GNP was presented – until today a variation of 12%. That is to say, Europe now finds it 12% more expensive to buy oil than it did just five months ago. However, we are also not going to complain, because if the Spanish state is the fifth country with the highest price in the EU before taxes, it occupies 17 in the final price. For example, at the end of 2014 the price of state gasoline was 12% cheaper than the EU-28 average. If we are reducing the comparative price framework between the state provinces, for example, in November 2014, just three months ago, the price fluctuated between the most expensive in Huesca and the cheapest in Jaén, with an average price differential of 4,7 %. If we are already reducing and we are already coming to Euskadi, between January 2014 and 2015 the average price in Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia fell by 22,3 and in Álava by 24,7, while the average price differential between the three territories does not exceed 2%. Now, if we're going to reduce the comparative framework and come here, within a five-kilometre radius of the site we're at right now we have a price fluctuation of between 1,038 and 1,189. In other words, for a deposit of 60 litres, we have a difference of 9.84 euros. That is, 16 %, or four reeds, or two gintonics, for example. Apart from the question of what is so much price due in a supposedly political debate, the only thing I have intended to illustrate is that, while it is true that gasoline falls more slowly than oil, there is a dispersion of prices between countries, communities, territories and neighbourhoods that makes it very complex to draw a clear conclusion on how they conform with certainty, especially if we discover that the differential is lower between the average of European countries than in the environment of a single city. From here on, anyone who joins this debate will be surprised, and will not lack reason, what is the real reason for talking about gasoline prices in a forum like this. Let no one take it as a reproach, but I really don't think we have to talk about the price of gasoline unless we're in the whole company of the Basque Parliament. At the most, the matter may be taken to a committee, but I shall do it faithfully, and I shall be ready to show myself by what means the matter is. And I know, Mr Prieto, that you will tell me that we are here to do politics, and it is true, I will not deny it, but to talk about how the price of gasoline is shaped, about the price differences between Gamarra and Abetxuko, or that the gas stations go up and down slowly, because, I don't know, it can be political, but it seems to me to be a forced film. It is true that gasoline, fuel, is of strategic importance to a country's economy, which does not necessarily make it a sector of direct intervention, especially when we do not have the raw material (which another cock would sing), and there is supposed to be a diversified network of companies that should guarantee a minimum market of free competition. A debate in which, given the strategic importance of oil and its derivatives, someone legitimately intended to propose a direct control of the State over its production, processing, transport and marketing could be understood as being of great political importance, but what we have really found in this GNP is a proposal for the Spanish Government to discipline the distribution sector a little more, to offer greater effective market liberalisation, and therefore this could lead to a certain further fall in prices. Okay. On the other hand, the consulate is required to enumerate the prices of all Basque gas stations, so that the population may be able to go to the cheapest. Well, our amendment was only intended, if it was to achieve only greater market freedom, to place the matter in the bodies that have it. In the transaction, he says we agreed on that... Because, not trying to change the current oil status quo, we must seek greater control over what seems to be a lack of competition enough for the market to fluctuate with a certain credible freedom. It seems that, with few commercial operators, the oligopoly regime is indeed favouring certain attitudes of market and price control. However, despite the fact that everyone buys the raw material at the same international reference price, that public taxes are the same for all operators and that they also make up 50 % of the price, it turns out, as I have tried to explain in the first stage of this intervention, that it does not seem that this monopoly of prices occurs with such intensity, because there is nothing but to observe the high diversity of prices; so that in an environment of five kilometres from the point where we are there is a 16 % differential, which is very difficult to find in any other product in such a small radius. Although they must not do so very well either, because in fact the CNMC this very week has just imposed a severe penalty, of more than EUR 1 million, on several operators, among other things because they forced some gas stations to maintain certain prices. And the second part of Mr Prieto's proposal, which we have already negotiated and arranged, once again appealed to Kontsumobide to hang weekly comparative data on the cost of gasoline on its website at all gas stations. And, as this is happening with a certain frequency in a lot of products, because, to see, it is likely that it can help something to citizens who get into the website of Kontsumobide to see the prices of gasoline in the Basque gas universe, but also, apart from that it is enormously easy to find it on any website or mobile application, so I don't know if I would contribute much. I know it's very good Kontsumobide, but it's not an agency to fill out your work and your page with all the price data for any product that comes to mind in this Parliament. You cannot offer a comparison of the prices of york ham or yogurts with bifidus for the consumer to choose! Kontsumobide suggests general methods of behavior and elements to consider before consuming any product. More in the case of gasoline, in which, I insist, there are hundreds of web pages and applications. I know that gasoline is more important and more strategic than york ham, but, for example, a hugely strategic product is bread, which is consumed daily by all families, and still no one has thought of it (although if I say it is likely that it can happen) to make a comparison of prices of otana or chapata. It seems more correct, and it is to what we have come to in the transaction, that Kontsumobide advertises or gives capacity to the citizen who enters on his website how he can find the prices of gasoline in all the paraphernalia of possibilities that the Basque Institute of Consumption has to advertise. Well, I don't want to minimize what is being debated, but I think we need to start contextualizing everything. And to do politics is not just to talk about what citizens are interested in, which is what the chatter is about, but above all to try to solve things. And trying to resolve issues that go beyond the political capacity of this Parliament and the government that we hold or criticize means that there are only two ways out: either we stop appealing to issues that do not belong to us, because they result in a general toast to the sun, or we directly request that they be transferred to us, so that we can address them, debate and offer solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u4	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing to the non-correction teams round Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u5	Good morning. Thank you, President. I will vote in favour of the compromise that the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group have finally signed. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u6	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u7	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. I am speaking at this time to establish the position on the compromise amendment that has been signed by the Basque Nationalist Group and the proposing group. We are going to vote in favour, because I believe that it has focused more on those areas where it can be more effective, especially on the first point. I look at the justification for the initiative presented by Mr Prieto, briefly, where he came to say that the trend has been to maintain prices in the face of the fall in oil prices. And I'm going to tell you that your initiative is signed on 23 October 2014 (presented, not signed, signed – I think it will be a mistake – is in March 2013), and we are based on the latest report of the National Commission on Markets and Competition, where it says that the average public selling price of gasoline decreased in December 2014 by 8.9%, for the sixth consecutive month, and diesel decreased by 8.3%, for the fourth consecutive month. This means, Mr Prieto, that when you presented the initiative there were already decreases in the price of petrol and in the price of diesel. Probably not the one we would all have liked it to be, but there were descents. The average sales prices to the public of automotive fuels were lower in 2014 than in the 2013 financial year: 3.4% lower for petrol 95, and 4.1% lower for diesel. As has already been said here, there are several factors involved in the price of petrol (i.e. the international price, the depreciation of the euro had some effect on the price of diesel...), and, for example, pre-tax prices decreased by 15.4% for petrol 95 and 12.8% for diesel, where 96% and 92% of the fall experienced by their corresponding price are recorded. But also, as has been said here, there are autonomous taxes, which are somehow being reduced. Navarra and Aragon have already removed this autonomous tax on fuels, Cantabria has removed it by 2015, Castilla y León has reduced it by 67%. Then there are the operators and the service stations. Which are the cheapest, the cheapest? Hypermarket stations are the ones that have the lowest prices. They are followed by independent service stations, which are usually around 6 cents cheaper than those of operators...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u8	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u9	But there is also a difference between operators, with exceptions. For example, BP Oil has the lowest prices in diesel A during 2014; gasoline 95 in 2014 has the lowest price in BP Oil during the first semester; however, Repsol has the lowest price in the second semester. The situation of the stations also intervenes. It is not the same that an operator's establishment is on a motorway that is on a local road. The price also varies. Therefore, Mr Prieto, when you introduced the initiative, gasoline, as I said, had already been reducing the price for three months. What we want to say to you is that the Government of Spain (because you in your original initiative referred to the Spanish Government doing, doing...), I have to tell you that Law 11 of 2013, of 26 July, on measures to support the entrepreneur and encourage growth, introduced measures to increase competition in the retail distribution of fuels and fuels, facilitating the opening of new service stations and limiting the market power of large oil operators. Since the entry into force of this law there are 317 new service stations independent of the major operators that have introduced competition, installed mainly in the big cities, where there are differences, as I said before, between 6 and 8 cents per litre. This Act also provides for other measures: it provides that the autonomous administrations must integrate in a single procedure and before a single instance the authorization for the opening of new service stations; it expands the type of soil where service stations can be installed; it makes the use of land for commercial or industrial activities compatible with fuel supply facilities; it limits the conditions of contractual links exclusively to one year, and it may not include clauses that directly or indirectly fix or recommend the price of the sale to the public of the fuel. And, as has already been mentioned in some way, the National Commission on Markets and Competition has sanctioned, and has been published earlier this month, Cepsa with 2.5 (not 1 million euros, 2.5) million euros, and BP Oil with 750,000 euros, for setting prices for gas stations. Therefore, there are measures to control. But, in any case, the Spanish Government continues to try to adjust what operators' profits or margins are. A maximum of 30 % market share is also fixed for operators located in a province. By the way, Mr Prieto, I have to tell you that your group has submitted to the Congress of Deputies an amendment to some articles of some laws, where it said 30 falls to 25. I think that's going to be easily negotiable. And, on the other hand, the Spanish Government has introduced a reform of the Hydrocarbons Act, to adjust some parameters, as I said before, so that operators' margins are not abusive to consumers. I therefore believe that things are being done, but the Spanish Government is not satisfied, and that is why it has tabled the amendment to the Hydrocarbons Act. I hope that the government of Mariano Rajoy will have the support of the Socialist Group in Congress to modify these parameters, and their work, in order for this to be so, will be important.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u10	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u11	Yes, I'll do it from your own place because we don't have much to say about it. It is plain what our discourse is when we are to him of the most energetic example. In this case, we are very clear of fossil fuels for us, in this case from oil, that we must overcome the dependence we have. That's the discussion we have here to discuss, because that's what we have competition and ability to discuss about it, and we don't do it. And we think we've got a lot less to put on the gas price. To tell you this, it's the discussion we'd like to have here. Even if we think that the first proposal was right, at least to an oligoligolipolis, in this case BP, Cepsa, and Repsol, the reserves of the market at gasoline, which may be useful to lessen the margin of their profits. That's why we should have agreed to vote for this initial proposition, and seeing how the medium is left, we'll vote for this middle term.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u12	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u13	Yes, Madam President. From the seat, just to thank all groups for supporting the compromise amendment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u14	Thank you, Mr Price. Eternate patriot shouldn't speak a word. The representative of the American Basque Group doesn't even have to speak a word... End of discussion, we'll vote for the Middle Amendment that the Basque Socialists and the Eucators have signed. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the members of the meeting, 64; the votes given, 65; the opponents, the opponents 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainations are 0,0,0,0,0. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u15	So he's accepted unanimously. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Moroto, it's your word to introduce and get out of here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Lehendakari, counselors. This non-legislative proposal by my group once again seeks to defend income-guarantee income. Income guarantee income is a value of Basque society and it is something that we must continue to work for, defending as a sign of identity that characterizes us. However, precisely in order for income guarantee income to have unanimous support and to be understood as a social policy supported by the taxes of all, for the solidarity of all, it must reach out to the people who really need it. Two things are happening at the same time in Euskadi. On the one hand, we are seeing every day situations of social aid recipients who should not be charged. But this is not my opinion, it is not even the opinion of the Group of the European People's Party: it is the opinion of the Basque Government and it is the opinion of the previous social policy adviser, I suppose also of the current one. There is concrete evidence that today, with the solidarity of the Basques, people who really need it are not being reached, but that there are those who know how to get close to income-guarantee income to, fraudulently and abusively, live from it, and, at the same time, in Euskadi there are situations of people who do have a proven path of work, of effort, and who go through complicated situations, to which the system, counselor, our system, says "There is not for you" or "There is not enough for you". And that happens every day dramatically in Lanbide's offices. Therefore, in Euskadi, while you are allowing people to cover social assistance without meriting it, or directly by fraud and abuse, you are leaving people who have the need, who have the right, and for whom the answer is "Not for you". Let's go to the actual data. With regard to the first, much has been discussed regarding the responses that the Basque Government (the previous adviser, but I understand that it is the same department) has provided in relation to undue payments and fraud. As what makes Lanbide wrong is mixed with what perceivers do wrong, some tend to think "There is no abuse in GIR; what there is is a bad work of Lanbide." There are both things, gentlemen, and you have to call things by their name. We have to be clear, and we have to say "Lanbide doesn't do everything right – that's a work to be done – and there are some specialists in fraud and abuse, some with the current rule and others with the current rule." Concrete data. Of the millions of euros to which the Basque Government refers when talking about undue payments and fraud, I will only take what we all agree is pure fraud. I'm going to specific headings with real figures. One, collectors who hide data and commit fraudulent actions (this is in parliamentary response): 3,818,000 euros. Perceptors who do not believe their real economic situation, who lie with the data: 1,199,000 euros. Perceptors who say they do one thing and do the opposite, i.e. apply the benefit to another purpose (official data): 1,955,000 euros. Perceptors who do not report facts that give rise to suspension of the benefit, hide this reality: 13,976,000 euros. Is it necessary to continue? They're real figures, they're Lanbide's figures. It is the public data, of people who put themselves ahead of others in the line of Lanbide and collect this benefit without being entitled to it. That's what we're allowing. On the other hand, we are in dramatic situations, and today we bring one of them here. One of them is to say yes to the RGI and yes to these people for the RGI. In particular, dramatic situations are caused by the situation of economic crisis, by the low level of pension benefits that the general system has (and I will do the self-criticism in first person: I wish the central government could continue to increase pensions more). Here in Euskadi, we like everyone (I don't know if everyone, Mr Maneiro don't know, we like everyone else) to say that we have a system of self-government and that we have competences of our own and that we like to exercise them, so in the GIR, with great success, there is a system of complementing the lower pensions. That is why, because we are Basques, we have our own system and we want to exercise that right. What is happening now? That despite that situation, there are pensioners... I have the data of what happens in my land, in Vitoria, but my land is also Euskadi, which is the same. In my country, in Vitoria, 18% of older people who live with a pension support the whole family with that pension. All of it, all of it. Sometimes he's a son, a daughter, who doesn't get to eat at the end of the month; sometimes he's a grandson, so they don't get rid of him. That's what happens in Euskadi. And those people don't get with the pension and the current pension supplements via RGI. You know why? Because when you approach many of the collectors in Lanbide's office, or when you stop with them on the street, which is a duty we all have, they tell you: "I don't turn on the heating, and we're on February 12th, because I prefer to help my grandson with my pension, or feed my son." And that doesn't make anyone better or worse; what I'm saying is, what is solidarity for? To let there be what we see every day in the paper, or to help people who really need it? We have a system of competences of our own, we have a system of GIR that allows here, in Euskadi, to supplement the elderly with lower pensions, yes or no? Yeah, right? Well, let's help them. Counselor, it's the old lady's account. I do not share the opinion of your group, and especially that made public by your predecessor in office. I do not share the view that we must raise taxes, as the PNV has said, to pay for social policies, too. I do not share it, because here, in their data, they have enough bags of fraud to, without raising taxes a cent of euro, help our elders, the people who have curated forty years and that now, with their pension, they are saying "I have to choose between turning on the heating or helping mine". And in the meantime, Mr. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, in the offices of Lanbide every day there are those who know how to shove it in our faces and laugh at all the Basques. Right now, in the newspaper you will find that there are some people who know how to come to the Basque Country and, between one thing and the other, charge 10,000 euros of RGI every month. That happens with the current system. Are you going to tell me that denouncing this is racism, or calling things by their name? Because it's calling things by their name. And I think we should be less concerned about who pays 800,000 euros in Kutxabank and who consents to it, and one thing and the other, because the problems on the street are others. It's these. This is what there is every day in Lanbide's windows, which unfortunately are too many people on a daily basis. Look, the proposal is very simple. In the RGI, which is a sign of identity and which I defend as my group defends, we have to change things. Denmark is doing it, Sweden is doing it, the United Kingdom is doing it, Germany is doing it, to say yes to solidarity, but yes to solidarity well understood. To reach out to the one who really needs it, to the one who has earned it, to the one who has a right, to the one who proves that it does not reach. We cannot continue to have a system of benefits in which official data of 21 million euros are given in contrasted fraud (or tell you what is not contrasted), and we remain so panicked. It is shameful that you allow Kutxabank to collect 800,000 euros, while at the same time preventing pensioners from being able to collect 800 euros. What I say and defend may be politically incorrect, but it is the right thing to do in politics. It's talking about people who don't remember. It's defending those who don't go out every day screaming on the street. That is to say with total clarity "Help yes, abuse no". But what is not understood of this? What's not understood when you're saying, "You can't go to Lanbide's office in the morning and delinquent at night"? You can't, Counselor! You can't! And our system allows it. You can't, and you shouldn't. And you can and should change this. The truth today is that we had no idea that this bill was going to coincide with its premiere in this House. He's got the cotton test today. Casualities of life, first day and we have a matter that is a hot ball that you have in your office, that have made it fatter and warmer, by the way. But today you have the cotton test. Today with your group we will vote on this proposal. It is a question of saying: "With the money that is already contrasted with abuse and fraud, without raising taxes to anyone and without removing anyone from the GIR, we will help our elderly with 600 euros a year by supplementing the lowest pensions (50 euros a month)". I know that you can also make it through a pension decree in Madrid: 50 and 500. What are our skills for? Do we want to exercise them? Because, if we don't want to exercise them, do we eliminate the pension supplement via RGI? Not at all! No one, nor Mr. Maneiro, would be willing to vote for that. Do we? You have the cotton test today, counselor. Is it more of the same, or not? We'll see you in a few minutes. I don't think sensibility understands acronyms. You, like the lehendakari, as the last of the parliamentarians (I am the last of the parliamentarians), we have an obligation to be on the street in every neighborhood of Euskadi, each in its municipality especially. I do, and it is very hard to find such testimonies as those I have referred to in this House. It's impossible to explain to a pensioner who has to make that sacrifice, because they do it with their heart, because it comes out of their soul... "With my pension I have to keep mine; although I have been working for forty years, now I have to keep sacrificing myself for mine." That is the solidarity that defines us Basques. But that lady, that gentleman, that pensioner, can not be told that at the same time we are consenting to what happens in the newspaper every day; that the next one can carry 10,000 euros in monthly GIR; that the next one can be delinquent and charging; that the next one can arrive, fulfill three years of standard, and live the whole life of the Basque solidarity system. It can't be. It's not a theme of acronyms, it's a theme of heart. It's a matter of feeling. It is a matter of solidarity. That's why among their ranks, among theirs, among those of these gentlemen, among ours, there are many people saying, "I aim at this." It's just "Help yes, abuse no." I hope that we have had the opportunity to tell you at this first sitting in Parliament. I insist, it's your cotton test. Don't let us down.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u17	Thank you, Mr Marot. Passing over to the teams that've been running the corrections. Basque Socialist represents the team, Mr. Pastetor has his word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u18	Thank you, President. I've listened to you very carefully, Mr. Maroto. You have come to this House dressed on this occasion in lamb skins, to present a charitable, almost blissful initiative, so that pensioners with lower pensions will be increased by 50 euros per month the supplement that corresponds to them through income guarantee income. And so said, and if there was no history, I almost want to ask for his canonization, believe me, until one remembers that the party that now proposes to supplement the pension here in Euskadi is the same one that cuts it all over Spain. The same. And it is the same one that refuses to adopt measures to eliminate the energy poverty of millions of retirees throughout Spain who are cold. Same game. And that the parliamentarian who brings the initiative here, as mayor of Vitoria-Gasteiz and for the sole purpose of strengthening his options to be re-elected – because that is the real objective – has demagogically questioned the income guarantee income that he formally claims to defend here, and has created a supposed citizen platform to make the campaign for him, trying to present this security mattress for the most disadvantaged as a focus of fraud that would almost leave in blankets Mr.Bárcenas and the poor defrauders caught by the Falciani List in Switzerland and other tax havens, bouncing the lowest instincts, which is the blackest of all that you have done, suggesting that aid that does not reach the home is because they are taken away from the outside. Now you don't say that anymore, you're in another phase of the campaign. But it started this way, wanting to show that its only objective was to correct the alleged abuses and dysfunctions of the perception of the guarantee income, when it is recorded and collected that it opened its campaign explicitly accusing Moroccans and Algerians residing in Vitoria-Gasteiz of "wanting to live without working", in quotes, because its exact phrases, as if there were left the job offers in an Euskadi with 170,000 unemployed. Pretending, in short, to face some poor born out against other poor born here. That's the sad thing about your campaign. And in that game, Mr. Maroto, we're not going to let the socialists in. On the contrary, we are going to make every effort to denounce and combat it, because we cannot first open the thunderbox and sow hatred of the different and sow neighboring confrontations, then put a good face in this rostrum and say that everything is done for the good of all. One thing is to improve the system of RGI, improve its management and close the cracks that can leave fraud and abuse... Because you are not the only one who puts shoes on the street, Mr Maroto; we too walk the street and we also hear people, and people obviously want mistakes to be corrected and deficiencies to be corrected. That is why the second point in our amendment talks about putting in place all the necessary regulatory changes so that groups that are now excluded, such as pensioners, or precarious workers, or large families, or single parents, who are now excluded in many cases, can also enter the GIR. And another very different thing is to instrumentalize some dysfunctions to open up fractures in society and to provoke confrontations between some citizens and others, for the sole purpose, Mr Maroto (it is very evident, however much you now want to disguise), for the sole purpose of collecting votes. That is, a formula tested unfortunately in many places, that of populism and that of xenophobia, which we are seeing in many European countries. Because it is true that in the Netherlands, or in Denmark, or in Norway, modifications are being made, but a criminalization campaign of the different has not been done previously, as you have mounted here since minute one. And of course we must continually reflect on how we adapt social policies to new situations, but with the aim of defending a basic instrument of cohesion and social solidarity. This is the spirit of our amendment, which we have tabled to your proposal. First, to highlight the network of solidarity that we have built among all, to try to avoid the exclusion of people who have been tainted by life, have the color they have. And, at the same time, reaffirm the readiness to introduce all necessary measures to combat abuses, so that they truly reach out to those who really need them. And in that part I agree with you, although I don't know if you say it very sincerely. And at this point we would also like – because there is more than one actor here – we would like the Basque Government to do its duties as well. Because, while on the one hand Mr Aburto went out in defense of the RGI, on the other hand he did not stop feeding the PP's bubbles, with actions such as the massive sending of letters of claim of amounts that he himself had improperly paid, or by not cutting with real figures the actual entity of the abuses that are committed, or by delaying Lanbide's internal organization, which at this point still does not have a job relationship. And, therefore, the Government here too has its responsibility. We want a government that is not a mere notary of problems, nor a sort of cabinet of studies in constant reflection. We want a government to act, to do things. And I take advantage of the fact that the new Employment and Social Policy Advisor is among us to welcome you and urge you to get to work, because he has a lot of work to do. Let the tooth swell to the many issues that his predecessor left him raw in his leap to the candidacy for the Bilbao City Council, from the effective fight against unemployment to social dialogue, through housing policy or the harmonisation of social services throughout the Autonomous Community, an objective that is not being achieved at this time. And, of course, the issue before us, the improvement and consolidation of an instrument as valuable as income security income to meet the situations of need that were not originally envisaged. But, as we have pointed out, this is very important and we have to deal with it in the same spirit with which we have launched it, and not in the spirit of transparency, unfortunately, because yours is a trapping initiative, Mr Maroto, which is transparent from your initiative in this House. One thing is what you started saying on the street, and another thing is what you're now wanting to sell us to public opinion. To say what you say first you have to be credible, and you, let me tell you, Mr. Maroto, isn't.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u19	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u20	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. Since Mr Maroto seems to like to speak clearly, let us also speak today in a clear and diaphanous way, so that we can all understand each other. You, Mr Maroto, are demagogy, populism and anti-politics, all of which have become a Basque parliamentarian, although you certainly do not act as such and your attitude is an insult to decent politics. He says his speech is not politically correct. What is a political disgrace. That's his speech, a political disgrace. Cheap populism, that's what it is. Mr Maroto speaks in the justification of his initiative of solidarity, and points out that it is a principle of our society and of any democratic system. However, it should be pointed out to Mr Maroto that we must refer to the facts. And if we refer to the facts we conclude that you have been a protagonist, and a volunteer actor, in recent times, of one of the greatest attacks on the ideas of solidarity and equality, by encouraging through repeated racist and xenophobic statements, which you have not withdrawn, the stigmatization of certain groups of immigrants, with the sole aim of achieving an additional handful of votes. That's the only thing that moves you in your political activity: trying to demagogy to get a handful of votes. The problems of society do not matter to you at all, nothing. Its only purpose is to demagogy to get a handful of votes. Neither solidarity nor equality is fostered by similar declarations. It is just the opposite: with his statements and those of some of his colleagues, the solidarity of the Basque system of social protection, coexistence and social peace has been called into question. You speak in the justification of your initiative to distribute wealth and combat social exclusion, and I must reiterate to you what has already been said: your actions and actions have gone in the opposite direction. No sharing of wealth, no fighting against social exclusion. And as far as the Basque system of social protection is concerned, only demagogicism, exaggeration, exabruption, manipulation of data, lack of rigour and populism. He talks about the justification for his initiative to ensure a better allocation of public resources and to fight against the fraud exchanges and abuses that are currently taking place in the GIR. He has also spoken today of fraud, in fact, he has hardly spoken of anything else, without proposing, that is, any concrete measures to combat fraud. On the other hand, Mr Maroto, I do not think of fraud or abuse that is more repugnant than the current political corruption in Spain as a whole, much of which has been starred by the People's Party: Bankia, Caja Madrid, the Gürtel, the excesses, the black money, the Bárcenes, the very possible illegal financing of the People's Party, the opaque cards, the scandal highlighted by Operation Punica, and many other cases of political corruption that have directly or indirectly led millions of Spanish citizens to poverty, ruin and social exclusion. A recently published study said that the cost of political corruption in Spain reached 40 billion euros: 40 billion euros (no 3, 5 or 21; 40 billion euros), the cost of political corruption in Spain, many of which its political party is responsible for. His political party, not another political party. Yours. He has time to justify his initiative to remember the dramatic situation that many elderly people and many pensioners live in Euskadi. The problem is that he forgets to quote the real responsible. Those responsible are the corrupt and the social cut-outs, and in particular the Government of Spain, which, instead of giving priority to the most defenceless citizens, chose to leave them in the gutter and abandoned to their fate. And, of course, those who decided to cut pensions, freeze them or not increase them enough; those who wasted millions of euros in absolutely unnecessary public works, who allowed fraud and tax evasion. In short, those who have governed us and govern us from the Government of Spain, which is most responsible for the pensions that our older ones, the older ones, receive. We should therefore urge him to do so as a matter of priority. Mr Maroto, we too believe that our elders, or the older ones, deserve better pensions, but yours is an electoralist and demagogic initiative, and deeply entrapped, because it tries to shift the idea that the elderly have low pensions because of immigrants and the fraud in social assistance, which, in your opinion, is mainly starring immigrants. That's what you said two days ago, not six months ago. Two days ago you said that of "Suffice it to pay the payroll to those who are delinquent or have never worked, we will help our elders", forgetting, by the way, that many of those who have delinquent in Spain in recent times belonged and belong to the People's Party. These are the real criminals who have existed and exist in Spain, many of the people who from the PP government or the People's Party have acquired public money from all citizens, ruining most of society. Mr Maroto, it is very unlikely that UPyD will support any of your initiatives on income guarantee income or social emergency aid. You, Mr Maroto, made absolutely irresponsible statements about social aid fraud. He pointed directly to the Maghrebs, who he accused of not wanting to work, accused Algerians and Moroccans of not wanting to work and live from social assistance, and stated that some nationalities live from social assistance and have no interest in working, as if all the citizens of a given place acted in the same way. In addition, you spoke of mass immigration and entire colonies of immigrants who receive aid, and the supposed so-called effect of our social protection system. Something that, by the way, is neither true nor would be fraud. Since then, the Basque People's Party has kept this campaign absolutely infumable, without any other purpose, as it said before, than to get an additional handful of votes. It's the only thing that moves you. There may be a disparity of views as to what the Basque People's Party intends to do. I'm sure more than one of us have ever wondered, "But what do they really propose?". Finally, everyone will have their opinion, but I am increasingly convinced of one thing, and it is that you speak of these things, and speak of the way you speak of these things, only because you do not have a credible project either for Euskadi or for Spain, because you cannot speak of anything else, and because you hide, try to hide, try to cover up your cases of political corruption. In any case, the result is known: more distrust of immigrants and more division of citizens. That is what you have achieved, Mr Maroto: more citizen confrontation, less social peace, and the stigmatisation of immigrants. That's his main achievement. Can you be proud of that achievement? I would certainly be ashamed of myself. And, as I said three months ago, what every political representative should do is to promote integration and social cohesion, not confrontation or discord. From there he presents a proposal which we consider to be a trapping and absolutely demagogic one. The party that has frozen pensions in Spain and cut social rights, and has implemented the pharmaceutical replenishment; the political party that has ruled with a social cut; the political party to which there are countless cases of political corruption, tries to propose an initiative in the form of a patch, with the intention, supposedly, that in this way thousands of Basque citizens will live better. It is absolutely demagogic and populist, which, of course, we are not going to support at all. We will vote in favour of our amendment, which, being generic, I believe is also clear: we propose to urge the Basque Government to strengthen the Basque system of social protection, so that public resources can be made available to all citizens who really need them to get out of the situation in which they find themselves. And not only are we going to vote in favour of our initiative, of our amendment. We will also support the amendment put forward by the Socialist Group. Finally, Mr Maroto, it is possible for you again in the coming days, in the coming weeks, to raise demagogic and populist debates. Let him look at it. Let him look at it, and reflect whether politics, and in particular Basque politics, really deserve representatives who embrace such resources or discourses so absolutely demagogic and populist. Let him look at it, because, truth be told, you are not solving any problems, but you are multiplying the problems that exist. Pure demagogy, pure populism and pure anti-politics.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u21	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over to the uncorrected teams, Mrs. Blanco, representing the EH Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u22	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Mr Maroto, I'm gonna surprise you for starting. I have to tell you that we agree with you, when you say that the amount of income is to increase the amount of income that your proposal was to ensure. "It is necessary to increase the number of recipients of GIR, by extending the assumptions or amounts of GIR, ensuring that social benefits reach the people who really need it." Yeah, we agree. The problem here is that we don't agree with it, the real problem here is because you say something in words, but then you do the opposite. You claim RGI to spread and support, but then you arrange a fridulative country platform to reduce RGI. It's called doing the opposite thing, Mr Marot. That's called cynicism, if we were to organise an cinema champion, you'd certainly be the champion. Your speech is cynical and hypocritical, even because it's cynical and hypocritical to increase social rights in deception. I won't stay on that account, though, because I'm not ready to feed your phenophobic speech. However, I agree with you in another point. Yes, the dramatic situation of many pensioners and many people. You're right. Well, if you'd better admit it, it's because of you, PP's. You, P.P., the pensioners, you who have decided to be miserable and miserable. It is you who have led thousands of pensioners to poverty, who have systematically refused to pay worthy pensions. Why don't you say something like that? : "Rajoy's government pays disgraceful pensions, and that's why I apologize to all pensioners in PP's name." It takes little shame to speak from the ranks of the People's Party about the dramatic situation of pensioners and pensioners and to stand here as their advocate. Imagining you defending pensioners is like imagining your friend Barcenas fighting fraud. It's an oxymoron. It takes a hell of an oath to suggest 50 euros to the pensioners of PPk. Lo podian haber pensando 2011, cuando rectaron la RGI en un 7%! Yes, now you're asking for those 50 euros, just as you, together with PSE, took them from the pensioners and all the people who get RGI. Yes, PPk and PSE decided in 2011 to help with the financial billing laws to reduce 7%. And when EH Collect has proposed to suspend that reduction, to value the number of these helps, you have insisted on "no" again and again. In this matter, Mr Marot, you are lying all the time. It is enough to deceive the people who are going through the worst, and to make speeches that set the citizen's life on fire. That's it! The solution for every person who gets paid for pensions and RGI is not what PP proposes today. That's why we vote against it. The solution, at least in a certain sense, was to cancel the agreement made by PP and PSE at 2011. That's the real way out. In a few minutes PP will be able to get away from it. I'll see what you can say or what you're doing. If PP really wants to defend the interests of the pensioners, I imagine he'll vote for it. One last thought before it was finished: The proposition that PP brought us today looks only at pensioners. He deliberately forsakes the families of one-father, the children of the orphans, the victims of the machista violence. Mr. Marot will have to explain why he makes this distinction, why these persons appear to be secondary in PP. But EH Collect demands integration solutions for all the citizens who live in a desperate situation. As I said, Mr Maroto will explain. But, to be honest, I don't think it's very necessary. We all know the reason why PP's proposition is this: May elections. Let no one think of PP's particular concern or concern for pensions, or give him water. I don't give a damn about being in misery with thousands of pensions. It's enough to see his politics to realize that. Why did Maroto say that pensions must now be completed? Why doesn't he consider other collectives? It is clear: because pensioners vote. When Mr. Maroto looks at those who live ill with the miserable pensions decided by his People's Party he sees no people, he sees only votes. If the People's Party really cared about its situation, we would be saving this debate. But it's just that these people don't care about the People's Party. It simply comes to us today with this proposal because there it sees a very appreciable pool of voters in front of the elections. In your speech, you have addressed not pensioners: you have addressed retirees. It does not speak of other IMR collectors, such as minors and minors in orphanhood. Why? It is clear: because retirees vote, and minors and minors who are in an orphan situation do not. He does it just for that, smooth and plain. Cheap, shameless, pure and hard electoralism. We must have courage!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u24	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Mr Marotus, in the name of the Eugulian Group, presented another proposal as to the change of pensions by rent. As you know, Popular Party and Marot are determined to become peculiarly social, and to guarantee incomes. It's not the first time, and it's probably not the last time, you show up some of the initiative associated with friends to guarantee incomes. This, as others have said, in some cases, as today, requires the strengthening of the scholarships, and sometimes the reverse. To reduce social aid by hardening conditions. What a contradiction, Mr Marot. You gotta have a hard face to play like this. We all remember the debate you created in the fall. When you said you were going to present an ILP to be toughed up and that's the way you're following. Last time, yesterday at Donostian. Mr Maroto took part in Donostia yesterday in the collection of signatures that celebrated the Fairest Aids platform, of which he is the main promoter and mentor, whose aim is to collect at least 30,000 rubrics in Euskadi to promote a popular legislative initiative that modifies some aspects of access to social aid. The aspects of the legislation in force which the People's Party wants to amend, with Mr Maroto at the head, are not to extend the assumptions or the coverage of aid. Quite the opposite. They are pushing for the collection of signatures to present a restrictive ILP, which tightens the requirements for access to social assistance. They intend to leave many of the people who are currently entitled to them out of reach. So today's initiative loses its strength and sense in defending it. Mere words. Cheap Demagogia. You don't believe it when you ask. It's not because the Eucan patriot says so, so did the other teams. That's how your attitude and the position of the Popula Party prove every day. With all the nices you're doing, and with the laws you're accepting, in all the institutions in which you're in charge. We find it indecent that such an initiative should be brought from your hand to the legislature. Legez besteko proposes amenaren zioan honela diozue, éta Blanco andreak ere holakoak aipatu ditu: "Solidarity is a principle of our society and of any democratic system. The administrations are obliged to develop all the necessary tools to contribute to the goal of the distribution of wealth and to achieve systems of social benefits that help to avoid situations of social exclusion and to help all those who need social coverage." Teenagers. Solitude is necessary in society, and that is why we have one of the most advanced systems of social protection in the state and in Europe. Because we've made that bet in Basque years. With the solidarity of society we have managed to develop a system of social protection that is leading both in the State and in Europe, which has allowed many people and families not to fall into social exclusion. We are proud of that system, and we want to maintain it, to improve it as far as possible. We share that public administrations must develop all the necessary tools to contribute to the distribution of wealth and to achieve social benefit systems aimed at avoiding situations of social exclusion, as you see in the justification of your initiative. All public administrations must develop such mechanisms and tools. In Euskadi we have been working on this path for more than twenty-five years, and that is why we have a social protection system that sets an example. Can all state administrations say the same thing, Mr. Maroto? What concrete steps have the representatives of the People's Party, where they have ruled and govern, taken to avoid social exclusion? What are the amounts earmarked for social exclusion per inhabitant in each autonomous community? I'm going to give you some data for the year 2013. In Euskadi, EUR 152.63/inhabitant is allocated to RGI and PCV. In Murcia, ruled by the People's Party, they are allocated 3.39 euros/inhabitant to the basic income of insertion. In Valencia, also governed by you, they are allocated 3,62 euros/inhabitant to the guaranteed income of citizens. And the autonomous community governed by the People's Party that allocates the most amount for this purpose is Cantabria, with 26,14 euros/month. Very, very far from the 152.63 of Euskadi. And that is, in short: 40% of the sum allocated to RGI in the State is for Euskadi. Euskadi contributes 40% of all aid in the State. With regard to today's initiative, Mr Maroto, how can one have the defachability of asking for an increase of EUR 50/month for the supplement of pensions through the GIR? You, who alternate in the Spanish government with the Socialist Party, could and should increase pensions to pensioners. But they've done the opposite. The purchasing power of this collective is diminishing, and not only because they help their closest relatives, as you said in your initiative, but because pensions have been stagnant for a very long time. Therefore, Mr Maroto, do what you have to do where you govern; apply all those tools that the administrations must put in place to prevent the social exclusion of pensioners in the case we are dealing with today. Do so, preach with the example, because, if not, your message is empty, hollow, nothing credible. It is time for them to make clear what they intend to do with the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act and the aid regulated therein. Do you want to harden access requirements, as you defend when you put yourself at the head of the Fairer Aids platform, or do you want to expand your coverage? The debate must be serious, complete, out of electoral periods, as we have said in countless occasions. It seems to us, at least, unresponsible to be asking for one thing on a Thursday, and the contrary to the next Thursday. If you think it is necessary, address the issue in its entirety, in a calm way, outside of media headlines, and I am sure that the rest of the groups will be willing to dialogue, improve the system, away from demagogies and merely electoralist positions. I challenge you to raise pensions to all pensioners in the state through basic regulations and in all the autonomous communities in which you have responsibilities of government, and at that time our group is committed to supporting initiatives aimed at studying the way to be able to do so also in Euskadi. In light years there is Euskadi from the rest of the state's communities. I therefore believe that this initiative should be passed on to its fellow party members so that they can implement it in their respective fields. We're not protecting your initiative, Mr Marot. Everything that's not done in the organizations of the popular party can't be overdone by the Eucomune or by the Basque Society. Do your homework, be brave and raise your pensions for once! As for Socialist and UPyD's corrections, we are prepared to discuss it calmly, without exaggeration, beyond the means. Let's talk, let's get along with it, but with the law and its purpose as a whole. We will not support them because they only serve to make the fat broth to the People's Party, and to the positions defended by Mr Maroto in particular. In conclusion, I repeat, the promotion of pensions is the jurisdiction of the state, though they are supported by the pensioners we have made, from the hiccoughs. It is necessary to have little shame to ask in Euskadi what you do not fulfill where you rule. In addition, Euskadi already favours pensioners, complementing small widow's and non-contributory pensions up to EUR 700 from the GIR. Therefore, fewer petitions to others, and act according to what they request here, where they govern and where they belong. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing the responses, Mr. Maroto, representing the American Basque Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u26	The only thing that this debate should not become is the "and you more." The only thing you don't have to become is that. That's what you've all done. I was told by Mr. Pastor, in connection with statements supported by the data that Lanbide made public four months later... They were in the councilman's box. I announced it in June. If you are referring to those statements referring to these two nationalities, Morocco and Algeria, where it was said – because it is a public data – that up to 65% of these people do not work and charge GIR, it is a data published by Lanbide. If you don't think about it, I think you should look at it. The average figure for people who unfortunately charge GIR in Euskadi is 3.5%. When 65 % is given in a collective, a reflection must be made. And this reflection was made before my June statements, also published by the Basque Government, in particular by Ikuspegi, the Ikuspegi Observatory, where it says that 65% of Basques consider that people in an irregular situation should not charge GIR. The mayor of Vitoria doesn't say that: the people on the street say that. 65 % (data from Ikuspegi) consider that people in an irregular situation should not charge GIR. You know why? I share it. You know why? Because Lanbide, who is the Basque Employment Service, cannot employ an irregular person. And of this my mother or hers, or the neighbor next door, what she understands is "How! I mean, what, then, is this 'I'm irregular, I access GIR for the rest of my life'?". That is not understood by anyone, and that is supported by 65% of those who answer to Ikuspegi. What do you think is happening in our country, that there is a journalist who has the holy noses to denounce a corrupt politician, or that there is a politician who is corrupt? What kind of cricket in this country, is there a mayor who dares to say, "There's fraud here," or there's fraud? The second thing to spit is the second. Crispa the corrupt politician, crispa a system that allows fraud, not the one who denounces it. Look, there's one thing that you Socialist Party really are the same as the Basque Nationalist Party, but I'm not going to do the "and you more," I'm going to talk about the people who had supported them so far. In a study – I suppose with the utmost credibility, published in a media outlet – we talked about the percentage of people who shared what I am saying: it is necessary to introduce control measures in the GIR to prevent fraud and abuse. 89 % (the same figure), 89 % of the people who had relied on the Socialist Party and 89 % of the people who had relied on the PNV said, as I say, that control measures must be introduced to prevent all this. What do you mean, "and..."! For you are of the Socialist Party, and the advisor is of the Basque Nationalist Party, who are turning their backs on many people who had so far trusted you! It's just like that. Now, I am very surprised by that reflection, that, populism... well, all that we sometimes hear is attributed to Podemos. I don't know if what I meant, with this lamb skin, which isn't lamb skin, it's kind of like I'm an undercover Podemos in PP. I don't know if I wanted to say anything like that! It has been very funny to me, because it has allowed me to look at the percentage of people on the tablet too, those who demand a change of system, those who say they would vote for Podemos, and 87% of those who answered that poll also agree with what I say: more control, more solidarity, less abuse. What don't you understand about all this? What's not understood? There's a situation I'm really worried about. When I was wondering, "What do you do? And what do you do?"... But where do you think the standard data came from that allowed the denunciation of the plot of Pakistanis who are charging between 6,000 and 10,000 euros a month! From the City Hall of Vitoria. I've given them to you, in collaboration with the Ertzaintza. But where do you think that plot comes from and how you managed to avoid it? For the cooperation that has been provided by the city council that I have the honour of chairing. But how can we do what we do? We do nothing but do this. And I end with a reflection, a reflection that tries to be kind to the counselor. I used to tell him – and understand the simile – that today was his first day, as the first day in the school of a child who debuts. Today was the counselor's cotton test. Today, as we are debating this, there are many pensioners who will be wondering "Well, what are they going to do? Are you going to help me? Are these from Parliament going to help me? Yes, or no? To me, that I have a pension that I have to throw away to get to the whole family, are you going to help me, or not?". That's what many retirees with low pensions are thinking right now. Today was his cotton test. You're going to say no. They're going to say that you don't help retirees with lower pensions. Counselor, first day of class, proof not passed. I say to you, do not complain after the citizens perceive this Parliament and you as far away from real politics, from politics that concerns people, but what we are talking about here today...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u27	Amaitzen joan, Maroto jauna. ...is exactly what many people are worried about. People who don't scream on the street out there, people who are in their house suffering, and also cold, because they don't turn on the heating for problems like the ones we talked about here today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u28	And in the meantime, you guys in the "and you more." That's how your hair looks.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u29	Thank you, Mr Marot. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u30	Look, San Javier. [[Barres]] You are not the only one concerned about the situation of the disadvantaged. No, no, Like I said before, it was worth the canonization... Because you make a tricky speech here from the beginning: as you are very concerned about the situation of many people and the fraud, you use it and manipulate it. And he comes to say, "It's just that you haven't been worried, you think it's amazingly good that there's fraud." And that's cheating, Mr. Maroto. You're a cheater, from the beginning to the end. We have so much concern or more than you for solving these problems, and I have told you in my speech. We propose in our amendment the necessary regulatory changes so that certain people, not only pensioners, who are a handful of votes that come to you very well for the municipal elections, also large and single-parent families, and the collective that Mrs Blanco said, and those minors who are in a situation of helplessness... Of course I do, but that's not what you're talking about. He talks about what an election goal is. And I didn't use "you anymore," for nothing. You've started here to let go of the dungeon! But you, you are the least suited to giving anyone in this Parliament lessons in social and anti-fraud. The least indicated, because it does so with crooked intentions. And it's also that, forgive me for telling you, you get a lot of notice that you do it that way. And you have set an electoral target in this case: low-pension pensioners. And since you grant rights not on the basis of the human condition, but on the basis of what each person contributes, it would be good to remind him that the Socialists were able, in the 1980s, to set up a system so that those citizens (and there were many) who for various reasons had not been able to contribute could also have a right and access to a minimum income with non-contributory pensions. Because your speech, Mr Maroto, in addition to being inconclusive, even calls into question future pensions, because it excludes those who do not contribute from your interest. And with unemployment rates such as those we have, and with job insecurity such as there is, it is quite complicated that those who are in the working population today can guarantee even the payment of current pensions, much less future ones. That is why you make a selection of voters, and your selection has concluded that the data of interest is the group of pensioners with low pension. Electoral objective, social objective. But we propose to select all citizens who have problems and need solidarity, which is not the same as you do. You select and, therefore, exclude certain groups that do not interest you electorally. Faced with those who want to condemn, as you do throughout Spain, the citizens of this country, many, to return home to their grandparents, we propose that no citizen be excluded. In the face of those who are making, like you, a partisan use of social protection, we propose solidarity and reinforcement, as this Parliament ratified last November at the initiative of this political group. And against those who encourage suspicions about their neighbours, as you do permanently, we propose reforms that do not exclude those who are still excluded today. And in the face of propaganda acts by a candidate parliamentary mayor, as you have done here today, we propose that the funds for social emergency aid should be provided from the government. And that is why we want to tell Mr Toña, if he is definitely the social policy adviser, that he should get to the task, because there is a lot to go on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u31	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u32	Thank you, President. Mr. Maroto, facts, not words. What are the facts of the People's Party? What are the performances of the People's Party? What are the policies of the People's Party? Well, it is perfectly summed up: social cuts, cuts in rights, policies against citizens in the worst situation, refusal to promote concrete policies and measures against evictions, cuts in education and health, pharmaceutical retaliatory measures, reduction or freezing of civil servants' salaries, cuts in pensions, labour reforms against workers, policies that have favored inequality, poverty and social exclusion, and corruption, institutionalized corruption, corruption within the People's Party. A corruption that amounts to nothing more and nothing less than 40 billion euros for the public coffers, according to a recently published study. I don't know if you're interested in what I'm saying. I have the custom that, when a Member proposes an initiative, under here to defend my approaches, in the spirit, at least, that the proposer listens to what I say, instead of talking to the fellow next door. You complained a few months ago that the rest of the groups did not want to discuss or discuss with you a specific proposal. I did come down and discussed that proposal. His answer was silence, because he did not answer anything a server said. And now, instead of listening and taking note of what this Parliament is saying to you, you are talking to your colleague. Have you listened to the rest of the groups? Did you hear that? Have you taken note? Is it not surprising that the whole House has positioned itself so forcefully with its idea and proposal? Does it not draw your attention to the fact that all parliamentary groups have spoken of cynicism, hypocrisy, demagogy, populism, anti-politics, cheap electoralism, defachability or shame? Doesn't it make you think this? It should, because politics is not based solely on going down to the rostrum, throwing four sotromas and sitting back in the seat trying to make the polls better. Politics isn't that. Politics is also listening and telling the truth. And yours I say is demagogy and populism and electoralism, cheap electoralism. Because you don't care or care about fraud, you don't care about the absolute, it's absolutely the same. It merely seeks to use the existing fraud in social aid to obtain a handful of votes through absolutely demagogic initiatives which do not solve anything at all. I mean, these are the facts, the facts of the People's Party: cuts in all areas of politics, and corruption. That's the reality. Its policies have been those that have led to social exclusion, those that have led to an increase in inequality, and those that have led to an increase in job insecurity. His policies, the policies of the People's Party. And as far as the Basque system of social protection is concerned, proposals, but proposals to cut it down, not to improve it, not to reach more people. False. Its proposals have been and are only in the direction of cutting it down, not to expand it, not to strengthen it, I say, not even measures to combat fraud in social aid. Only proposals to cut it and to attack immigrants and the worst people are going through it. Demagogy, therefore, and populism. They have already told you: if you want to help or if you want to increase pensions for pensioners, talk to the Government of Spain and Mr Rajoy to take action in this regard, but they have done just the opposite. They've done just the opposite. And the conclusion, of course, Mr Maroto, as it could not be otherwise, because we are adult citizens, is that you do not believe anyone at all, and that is why you receive the strong criticisms that you receive permanently in this rostrum, because you have no credibility, because you notice a lot, and you notice what your only objective is: to demagogue and populism. Mr Maroto, the people on the street are represented in this Parliament. The people on the street, whom you constantly quote, are represented in this Parliament. Basque citizens are represented here. And this Parliament again says to you today that it does not, that it does not agree with your approaches, with your demagogy and with your populism. What creeps, Mr. Maroto, is corruption, it's cuts, it's impunity, and it's demagogy. Finally, Mr Maroto, a 10 in demagogy and populism. That's your note.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u33	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u34	Thanks again. Mr. Maroto, in this second round you have taken off your face. Ikuspegi, fraud, Pakistanis... the thread of his speech in the first intervention, but especially in the second. At no time have you appointed the collective that says you want to defend. Well, yes, sorry, he's named some mother. Pension supplements are not only received in this case by mothers, as you say. It's a much broader collective. But you have taken the debate where you wanted to go, and I think that is why we have managed to take your face off. We know, and he's proven, where he wanted to go and how far he wanted to go. But how do you expect us to give credibility to your proposal? How do you want us not even to table an amendment to your proposal? How do you expect us to believe you, when you are doing the opposite of what you say? This is a poisoned debate, from beginning to end, electoralist. And we have discussed it with you, but we are going to vote against it, as I said before. Let's see, income guarantee income on what basis is it calculated, Mr. Maroto? Income guarantee income on what basis is it calculated? That of the interprofessional minimum wage. You already know where you have to start working. What is, for a living unit, income security income? 619,28. For a pension supplement, 703.73. If you hadn't led to the 2011 cut, now that collective, which you say you're defending, would be charging 770 euros today, and you're paying 703. They took seventy euros, and today he wants to give them fifty. There, his face is discovered again. That's demagogy, that's cynicism. You want to put a tiny stretch on a group that bleeds out, bleeds out for a wound that you've caused. That's what they want to do. And they mix energy poverty with this. Mr Maroto, in order to alleviate energy poverty in some way, there are social emergency aid. There comes the eligible expenses, both to buy a radiator and to pay the bill for the light, for social emergency aid. Do you know that in order to calculate social emergency aid, RGI computes as income? Do you know that if you increase the RGI, that person is less aware of ESAs? I'm sure not. I'm sure he hasn't even bothered to read it. All right, stop campaigning. Okay. They are taking advantage of a vulnerable group, a group that is having a really bad time, to get a chair in March. That's ugly, it's bad, it's painful. Now, it's clear here who the jets are. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Finally, Eucabertarians represent the team, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u36	Thank you again, Mr. congressman. Mr Maroto, the full check-up is tomorrow, so we do not understand that you have devoted yourself to questioning Councillor Toña or to making a note of it, when you have neither intervened nor will intervene today. Don't worry, you'll have time to ask him as many times as you want in the corresponding full control. How sad – indeed, Mr Maroto – that you present an initiative and all, absolutely all the groups speak with qualifications as hard as "empty speech", "lack of credibility", "pure demagogue", "populist", "zinikoa", "hypocrit", "xenophoboa", "defachation", "cheap electoralism"... Man, when all the bands match, something's gonna be right, right? You've even been called a cheater. And what do you want me to say to him? It has become clear that from words to deeds there is a great stretch, and you say one thing but you practice absolutely the opposite. Cotton test, he has referred to the cotton test a lot of times, and also referring to the Toña counselor. You, the People's Party, do have the opportunity to raise the small pensions to which you referred during your speech. They have the mechanisms and the absolute majority in Congress to do so. Be brave, put aside the demagogy and stop putting duties on the rest of the administrations, and solve the serious problem of the very low pensions of the pensioners. There's your clear cotton test. Also, speaking of fraud, he mentioned to the Algerians, that, well, as Mrs Blanco said, he finally took off his face and went to what he was interested in, even though he disguised him. As we are in carnival times, it seems that you have advanced a little, and comes with lamb skin, as you were told. And he talks about money, that you don't want to increase the money, but you use that money from the alleged fraud. You also have a large amount in the City Hall of Vitoria that you could devote to it, which is the money from the Yurre storm deposit, which is 8,205,078 euros. That money too, since the city hall, could have dedicated it to the RGI, but it was used for other servants. The Socialist Party, Mr. Pastor, said that we would have to address the law, the amendments...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u37	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u38	... in the same spirit with which he set himself in motion. And we fully agree that it should be done in the same spirit and with the broad consensus that was achieved when that law was passed. We share it. And that is why we are not going to approve your amendment either, because we believe that the only thing that it does is the fat broth to Mr Maroto. And the same is true of UPyD. We think it's clear to me that Mr. Maroto wanted one thing. He takes advantage, in a populist and demagogic way, of increasing the 50 euros to the pensioners, but where they can and must increase the pensions they do absolutely nothing and try to put duties to others. I insist, be brave and increase the poor pensions of the pensioners where they belong, which is in Madrid. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of the proposition as the Euskal Potula Group. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters 10; the opponents are 64; white, 0; Abstenations are 0.0. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u40	Original text was not accepted as a result. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters 16; the opponents are 58; white, 0; abstations are 0. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u41	As a result, no social correction is accepted. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (The pause) A vote has been this: votes given at the meeting, 73; votes given, 74; supporters 15; contraries, 59; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u42	The full correction of Misto-UPyD has not been accepted. The next round of the party that made the proposal is the representative of the Basque Socialist, Mr. Reyes has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u43	Good morning, everyone. Well, this is an issue that is not the first time this Parliament has dealt with it. We have brought it again because, first of all, we want to face the damage to the people of the mining area caused by the plans of the Ministry of Development, at least announced last month by the minister. Plans that harm a population, that of the mining zone, traditionally crushed, that has its population cores crossed by all kinds of tracks, by all kinds of trains, by all kinds of goods, by an urbanism that needs to be regenerated. And in this context we have always defended two things fundamentally for the mining area: that the freight trains do not pass through urban centres under any concept; and for this, to give a definitive solution to this problem and to the stretch that goes from Barakaldo to Basauri, passing through Bilbao, that the project of the southern variant railway is activated. These two aspects are irrefutable for the Socialist Party, both here and in the municipalities of the area. We defend the same (we do) here and there. And we defended this a year ago in this Parliament in committee, and a proposal from the Basque Nationalist Party came forward because... this is our responsibility, it was for a cause of force majeure, but a member of the Socialist Group was missing in the vote. If not, all the amendments would have fallen due to the type of vote. I mean, without detracting from Parliament's decision, that it is not a decision taken by the plenary of the committee, but by a circumstance that is important for the division of positions on this issue. It is precisely for this reason that we registered the GNP at the end of last year, and for the statements of the minister last November, who had proposed simply to activate the infrastructure, and I quote textually, "and then to see alternatives for the external circulation" (it is understood, of the population nuclei). That is, the biggest is opening the tunnel, and then the ministry proposed, in November, to see, to study alternatives for external circulation, from that moment on. With which the problem we want to avoid was inescapable. In the middle of last month (i.e., we are talking about January already this year), the Meatza platform mobilizes about two thousand neighbors from Ortuella and Trapacaran, and they protest because for three months, they say, the Basque government does not give them a concrete answer. Last week the vice councillor of Transports explains to the mayors – they say – of Santurtzi and mining zone a proposal that, he says, has already transferred the government to the Ministry of Development. Well, well, as the point was today and here we really have been looking for an agreement that will solve the problem for the neighbors, to get the information I call the Transports Advisor – who is here – two days ago, at 9:00 in the morning. I requested at the end of last month detailed information on the project that the Basque Government has submitted to Fomento. You have a deadline to answer, when you answer, we'll see. But I called the counselor to ask her at least a more or less detailed explanation of the project and to place me today, because, if there is something serious, to support if necessary. The counselor tells me that throughout the day I will have an answer (this was Tuesday at 9:00 a.m.), that the deputy counselor will contact me. And Wednesday morning I call because the contact had not occurred. That information had not arrived. And I'm not talking about a detailed project; I'm talking about an explanation, so I can face this issue today – if there's any real news, that I don't smell it, then. They call from the parliamentary group, and one person, a secretary, says the counselor can't be put in, and the deputy counselor is tied up. And until today. That is to say, this parliamentarian, in view of this initiative, wants to comment with the Government on what he is publicly declaring and says that he has spoken to the mayors of the area, and there is no response. I asked the councilwoman personally. Finally, despite that, I have, logically, spoken with Mr.Zorrilla – the member of the Basque Nationalist Party who carries this issue – to offer him a compromise. A transaction in which I take the two points of the amendment of the Basque Nationalist group that refer to the southern railway variant (all right), and I only propose an addition that I already proposed a year ago to the representative – at that time it was another – also of the Basque Nationalist Party. And it is that the Basque Parliament firmly rejects the passage of goods from the port of Bilbao through urban centers, from line 2 of vicinity of Renfe (Muskiz to Bilbao). That's all. That is to say, what is being said in word, what is being said in the area, which is, alongside the two paragraphs of the PNV, the decision of this Parliament: that this Parliament rejects the crossing of the population centres. I still don't understand, I still don't understand why something is sold constantly in Ortuella, in Trapacaran, in Santurtzi, why that can't be put on paper, firmly reject the passage, through the population centers of the mining area, of the entire line 2 of vicinity of Renfe, from Muskiz to Bilbao. Reject the passage of the goods. I don't understand why. In any case, we are then on a proposal which unfortunately has no compromise. Well, everyone appreciates their interest in this matter, and it's clear here today. And what is also clear is that the news from the press that the Basque Government has proposed to Fomento a new project that solves the ballot, which has been given candy and dish with the mayors of the area, has no consistency. I don't understand, if not, why the department hasn't even given me some notes of what it's about. Yes, it has sent, and I saw it yesterday afternoon, to the municipalities of the area a couple of alternatives, which are only alternatives that have been discarded ten years ago, that try to carry – so I have seen above, because the plane is very small – to the steelworks of Sestao the departure of freight train that is spoken of, after opening the tunnel of Serantes. Of course, they have to cross a highway. They have a number of technical problems that 10 years ago made this matter go away. In the end we have, in any case, nothing concrete to discuss today. We don't have anything. It would have been a good explanation to the groups for today of the Department of Transport, to explain clearly if there really was an alternative. And, in any case, what the Ministry of Development has proposed has accepted as a project, or will it analyze it.Does it avoid the passage through the population centers, or pass through some neighborhood? Because I'm sure it is. And, in any case, if we do not bet to reactivate the southern railway variant, any solution that is considered more or less reasonable by some group will lead the traffic to Barakaldo; by opening the tunnel, the traffic of goods will increase from the port, logically, and, in case the port is 100 percent, the bottleneck of Olabeaga will collapse at the entrance of Bilbao, because there the freight trains, to bend to La Casilla, have to occupy the two tracks. In other words, passenger traffic is going to slow down or collapse, yes or yes, with the opening of the tunnel, if there is no solution that is that of the southern variant. There are problems that must be addressed before opening that tunnel, and it is to take into account the population cores, that the freight trains do not pass by, because they are long trains, large trains, with dangerous transport, slower... That must be taken into account. And the urban regeneration needs of the entire area must be taken into account. Because, for example, it came out yesterday in El Correo that the municipalities of Bilbao and Barakaldo are working on urban development in the joint areas, and specifically, for example, in an area of Bilbao, Punta Zorroza. Punta Zorroza is going to be an expansion of Bilbao, the last, great, integral, in which there is going to be a type of modern industry, official protective housing and a great urban development. And there you go to increase the passage of freight trains, also cutting the area, breaking the urban planning of that area and passing next to the new houses a greater flow of freight trains? Finally, as there is no clear compromise, as there is no conclusive conclusion on the table, and as they still do not accept that the passage through the population centres of freight trains is avoided, in order to avoid further harm to the population, this group maintains its proposal. And we cannot logically agree with the Basque Nationalist Party. I've also tried with Mrs. Beitialarrangoitia from Bildu. They've all been very kind, we've all talked, but each one maintains positions that are clear. And it makes such a broad approach of reviewing absolutely everything, without guaranteeing the present, that we cannot, logically, enter into the concrete agreement to solve the real problem. As for Mr Maneiro, from UPyD, he also talks about things that are good, such as promoting the transport of goods by rail through adaptation to market needs and efficiency criteria..., that are good, but that we understand that they do not correspond exactly to the issue we are discussing today, of the Serantes tunnel. So, waiting for what you have to say, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u44	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, Mrs. Betialgariangodia has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u45	Thank you, and good morning, or good noon. Like when we examined the matter at the committee, we have two issues on this point. On the one hand, whether or not the serantes tunnel itself should be opened, and on the other, the south-way. It is evident that with the party that proposes it, and he knows that, for the first time, we are united, but not for the second time, because we think that the project we have mentioned ought to be rejected. It is the intention of the Spanish government to open the tunnel and give up the discussion about the alternative to the deviation, as he has said before me. Therefore, seeing that the tunnel in Serantes is not to be opened, we have focused on our own correction, not so much on the way as we did in our time, but what we do is to focus on the tunnel and ask for this discussion to be opened. It doesn't seem serious to us that the government's position is that he adds the opening of the tunnel as a final solution to the tunnel, and that he wants to make haste, while a company has asked him for a search on the railway line of travellers and goods around Bilbo. And not only that, but the government replied that if the tunnel were to be properly opened last year, it would have to be in a more general inspection. This examination ought to be of use, in the government's instructions, to determine whether what should be done in the current railway line or not. So, without studying, what is the criteria for opening the tunnel? The question is what you want. What we have clearly is what reasons are not to be opened, these are very clear to us. If it were opened, the transport of the port of the Saints would leave the Muschiz-Mubo C2 line, that is, the dangerous merchandise would be thrust through the midst of the village and cut down the restrictions of the railway service. Both on the basis of an attitude against us. And the cause of Ortuella and Trapaga's anger. They are concerned with the loss of the quality of life which the opening of the tunnel would bring them, because otherwise they think they live in one of the most degraded regions of the mines, and they are not willing to suffer any other censure than to be used as secondary citizens. Not only the people, but the municipal assemblies have just received the same exclamation, but it is something that has happened during the last few weeks, and the town councils refuse to open the tunnel at both. And we ourselves also believe that we ought to focus on our forces here today, and to avoid them, we should unite forces. And here, whoever has spoken before, has said that there has been a labor in the middle. I won't deny this effort, but I must explain to him that in the texts to try to make an approach, so he can't say that the Basque Country has made an effort to approach the Collector, including two points of the Jultarian Party, as he knows we are opposed to the sideway, and he only talks about the points around the back. We cannot, therefore, say that there has been a very serious effort to approach the Basque Country to the position of the Union, perhaps because it was supposed to change the position of the other, but let us say that honestly. The Basque Country has not even tried to collect a medium because he knew that on this point he would not join the rest of the teams. And I would rather say this in a sincere manner, and if he entered a middle path, he ought to be content with a text that is acceptable to him, no doubt. We cannot allow Ortuella and Trapaga to become the most dangerous merchandise. I mean, to become people who are going to be on the train tour, they're close to home and probably going to be over by night. They must therefore suffer not only from danger and service, but also from noise. No citizens, no councils in the area and we don't need docking to find a way out. But it is not possible for private and economic interests to obtain a worse service from the local population, to live in danger, or to punish it for the present. That's what we want to do, I repeat, the accent today. Don't let any one say that our opinion about the detour has changed in any way. It's not like that. We are opposed to that macro project for different reasons, and, obviously, we don't even like the project that I've been proposing. On the one hand, because it is a part of the passage, and on the other hand, it has been said here that it passes through a neighborhood, and that the two different alternatives which have been introduced, because it still works in the wide area, have been known in accordance with the information that has come to us, and is true, we know not much of it. That's why we're asking the deep discussion about the country's organisation and the transport pattern to be considered above certain particular interests, whether truly or truly economic, social, and ecological views. And so again, let us not spend the money on projects that are not going on: As in a closed tunnel since it was built, 50 million has already been closed for more than five years. Nor is it necessary that there should have been other infrastructure for the portes of the Saints to carry goods, by Renfe, FEVE, or other roads made. These substructures require real improvements, but they never justify or their absences this macro project. A project that is not permanent in its environment. The damages to the escape of the railway can also be enumerated, and many of them: The deviations of guinea-pooferos, the gigantic track which is intended to be built in the Wallet district, will cross the whole range of the mountains through a range of twenty-five kilometres to Muschik, including the Ganegotata, Gallar Mine, Mount Serantes, or the hydrogenological system of the district. Instead, our question is, why don't you check between Muskiz and Barakal to improve and double the railway, so that you can use the tunnel and make Renfe's train start or put it more often than close the doors? For the train from Baracdo to Muschie is one way, and the people are afraid that if the merchandise are introduced, the service of the people will be reduced, besides the other inconveniences mentioned. There are several different sites where reproductions have been made, but this has not enabled to double the entire network, and thus improve the service. The rest, according to the instructions given to the villages in the area, have been told that these works are expensive and difficult. Not only that, but many points pass very close to the houses, and, in any case, these jobs are not more expensive than the one who asks for the cut-offs. Or another question, why don't you solve the problem of passers-by, which isn't a bad one in this area? On this line C2, Trapaga and Ortuella, there are three of them that are not permitted to present regulations, which need to be eliminated. They have long been instructed that this will be done from the political authorities, but it does not appear to be a priority, and they do not appear to have any will to act. We clearly see that the interests of the country are different, and that among the neighbourers there has been a great deal of anxiety about the project itself, and also also a solution to the subject, if the tunnel of the Serantes itself open, for the intolerable state of this temporary situation. For the first part was made to make no use of anything, the second step was lost, and what we see is that there is no art at all. So that, in order to finish it, we do not think it an intolerable project already made, and at all costs, to make a mistake on this ill-started road. We think we're on time in the direction of the expense we've made, we don't need money and money to continue for this gigantic expense. We think, then, that we ought to recover our reasonable attitudes, to think well of things, to do well and to do what is reasonable. That's what he's been trying to defend in his proposal by collecting the Basque People and not opening the Serantes tunnel for us, and that's what we're asking for to vote for. That is why I said that we can agree in this, and not in other things, and that is why I say, the representative of the Socialist Group who has spoken to me before me, because there is no willingness to make a medium, because in the text there is no such effort. But, in any case, he who needs the first point in his proposition for us today, that is to say, not to open Serantes, would be willing to accept us. For this purpose we ought to vote for it, and this, of course, is no longer in the hands of the Basque People in the hands of the Union, but in the hands of the party who made the proposal, and he will have to explain what his opinion is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u47	Thank you, President. The Serantes tunnel, with four kilometres of route, is the longest tunnel in Bizkaia. It cost 50 million euros, and was excavated for almost one litre, between 2005 and 2009. The reason why an infrastructure of this slope lacks for the moment of any utility rests on the fact that the southern variant railway, a line for freight trains that was designed thinking of joining the tunnel with Basauri along eighteen kilometers, a colossal work that 80 % would be buried and that would require an investment close to six hundred million euros, according to data from a few years ago. The idea of rigging the Serantes and looking for a direct exit to the trains with containers and goods, including the dangerous ones, that are currently passing through the urban center of Santurtzi emerged two decades ago. In 2000 Mr. Cascos arrived at the Ministry of Development and gave the final impulse to the tunnel. They say that the former leader of the PP took a capital surprise when he discovered that more than 90% of the port charges were leaving or entering the free zone by road. The plan presented to him by the engineers seemed brilliant: it went by to dig 3.6 kilometers of underground corridor to come out next to the district of Nocedal, in Ortuella, on the other side of the coastal massif. There the railway would link with the C2, the network of closenesses that joins Muskiz and Barakaldo, which should be completely removed to withstand the transit of longer and heavier convoys. During the works of execution of the tunnel it was reached interinstitutional agreement, with the participation of different social organizations, that it would only enter into full operation when the variant south railway was a reality, with the possibility that, if strictly necessary for some problem in the current route, it could be used in a punctual and exceptional way to give way to the goods of the port of Bilbao through Ortuella and Trapacaran. On 16 October we met the media that, during a meeting with Mrs Quiroga, the Minister of Development, Mrs Pastor, announced that the problem of the Serantes tunnel will be resolved urgently. A solution that would go through its immediate commissioning, so that the freight trains begin to leave the port of Bilbao through line 2 of nearby Renfe, thus opening the door to a supposed expansion of the park of Santurtzi, as the mayor of that locality has been claiming. In short, it is a conflict, a conflict also complicated to resolve, between the municipalities of Trapaga and Ortuella, in front of that of Santurtzi, and with a work already done that has cost the public coffers 50 million euros, and that they can go to waste, since it does not seem very likely that the variant south railway will be carried out in an imminent way or even during the coming years. On the other hand, we want to point out, because it seems interesting to us, what are the effects of 90% of the goods going by road, and they are the following. Loss of competitiveness of the productive fabric, in a context of irreversible economic globalization in which the importance of logistical costs is critical, by widening intermodal chains, and especially in our country, due to their peripheral situation within the European Union. Important external costs, including a negative environmental impact, for the massive use of road mode. Increased energy dependence on fossil fuels, resulting from the low use of the rail system. Systematic degradation of collaboration between modes of transport. Costs of non-action insurmountable, due to the impacts generated on the low sustainability of the transport system, among others. Being aware that the opening of the tunnel generates controversy in the municipalities of Ortuella and Trapaga, I think that the ministry has, was right in proposing the opening of the tunnel, as it brings added value and a safer exit to the goods of the port of Bilbao, in addition to profitable the investment of 50 million euros. While waiting for the southern railway variant, in our opinion, at last, it is a toast to the sun. And these considerations and arguments have been clouded by the pre-election process. Last January 28, the minister has fixed 2015 as the year in which it will be attempted to close an agreement between the Ministry of Development, the port of Bilbao, the government of Euskadi and the municipalities involved on the project of the variant south railway, that allows to give way to the traffic of goods from the Basque port, one of the greatest yearnings of the harbour authority. We will see, in any case, what remains of that idea and what remains of that project. And, on the other hand, the Deputy Councillor of Transport met on the 5th of this month with the mayors of Santurtzi, Ortuella and Trapaga for informals of the efforts and the approach made by the Government to the Ministry of Development, on the improvement of the railway connections of the port of Bilbao, and the proposal formulated to the ministry, to realize a tunnel in double way from Serantes to the ACB, avoiding Santurtzi and the nuclei of Ortuella and Trapaga. In conclusion, EUR 50 million has been invested, EUR 50 million has been invested in public works without any kind of planning, as has happened so many times in this beloved country. The PP, it seems, as it is electoral year, in the end, seems that it does not remember the minister's proposal to open the Serantes tunnel, or at least does not defend it well enough, although we will now hear from the spokesman what exactly it says and what exactly it defends. And, on the other hand, the Basque Nationalist Party has apparently found a miraculous solution, making a kind of watermark, unfolding the tunnel and connecting it with the ACB, a great work unplanned, unbudgeted, and with all certainty very expensive, and moreover not concrete. In short, 50 million euros have been thrown away, the problem of the traffic of goods of the port has not been solved, and now, in order to avoid to make a strategic and necessary decision, due to the pressure, legitimate in any case, of three municipalities, it is made and proposed a toast to the sun for the sake of a hypothetical interinstitutional agreement that will surely be very expensive. In short, for all this, and recognizing that solutions are not easy, what we are going to do is defend our amendment in its entirety, in which we propose that this Parliament urge the Government of Spain to promote the transport of goods by rail through adaptation to market needs, bringing value to the global logistics chain, with objectives of improving the management of the system, the quality of service, efficiency and sustainability. And we propose to urge the Government of Spain to manage the development of major infrastructure projects with efficiency criteria, in order to prevent the repetition of an expansive policy of the infrastructure bubble that we have suffered in Spain and that has only generated waste, unemployment and corruption. That is why we are going to vote in favour of our amendment as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u48	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Zurrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u49	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. Today the Socialist Group brings us a recurring issue, as has been shown, since it was already dealt with in the Committee on the Environment and Territorial Policy on 4 December 2013, and the amendment tabled by Euzko Abertzaleak was adopted. You, Mr Reyes, are presenting today for approval again a GNP identical to that presented in 2013, amending only the first paragraph, the date of publication. And I remind you that in that committee a fully valid parliamentary mandate was adopted, despite its circumstances, as I have acknowledged, a parliamentary mandate to the Basque Government, which, as we must say, everything, and as we will later point out, was already working on the subject before that mandate. And it is true that since then there have been changes in this respect, and therefore these changes do not cause us to alter our December 2013 proposal. On the contrary, as I will mention later, it makes us reaffirm ourselves in it. Our proposal basically said and says, first of all, that the Ministry of Development is urged to continue the development of the project of the southern railway variant of the metropolitan area of Bilbao, giving continuity to the Serantes tunnel. Secondly, the General Administration of the State and the Basque Government are urged to cooperate closely in the development of the constructive project of the southern railway variant, offering the possibility of the formula of a convention between the two administrations to put it into effect. In our view, the construction of the southern railway variant, of which the Serantes tunnel is only a part (only a part), would meet two requirements that cannot be waived. Firstly, it would make a significant contribution to the increase in rail traffic with origin and destination in the port of Bilbao, which is one of the most important transport and logistics centres of the European Atlantic Arc and one of the fundamental axes in the development of Basque economic activity. I simply want to give the data for 2014, where an increase of 4 % over 2013, in which 14 % of the almost 10 million tonnes of general cargo has been transported by rail, and of that 14 %, a fifth (19 %) are containers by rail, in particular 631,000 TEU, with a total of almost four thousand trains, which is equivalent to about 20,000 trucks. On the other hand, any solution of the railway connection must pass by fulfilling the commitment of the ministry in 2007 (remember, Socialist Government), to suppress the railway traffic of goods by the municipality of Santurtzi and, at the same time, that no traffic of goods are incorporated in the railway line of proximity that runs by the municipalities of Ortuella and Trapagan. And these requirements are being met by developing a first phase of the South Railway variant project, whose information study was formulated in 2008 and which, after the period of public information, stayed in a drawer sleeping the dream of the righteous, until this government has arrived. And in this sense, the Basque Government has proposed to the Ministry of Development a double-track tunnel solution that connects from the Serantes tunnel to the ACB, without crossing Santurtzi and without affecting the urban centres of Ortuella and Trapagan or its proximity line. The Ministry of Development has committed itself to the processing and public information of this project as soon as possible. It is therefore clear that we are starting from a radically different point of view from that of the Socialist Group and, therefore, also from that of Mr Bildu. Faced with its negative proposal to firmly reject the start-up under any concept of the Serantes tunnel, our approach is positive: to continue the development of the project of the southern railway variant, giving continuity to the Serantes tunnel. With the socialist approach, what is achieved? Nothing, just keep it up. Leave the 2008 informational study in the same drawer in which the Zapatero Government left it, and continue to have the monument to the tunnel. A number of objectives are achieved through our approach. Firstly, to improve and guarantee rail traffic, and to improve the data I have provided earlier. Secondly, to facilitate the fulfilment of the commitment of the Spanish Government (socialist, 2007) with the City of Santurtzi to free the rail traffic of its municipality and to allocate these soils for public use. How else does the Socialist Group intend to fulfil this commitment? Simply by not opening the Serantes tunnel or by rejecting the passage of goods through Ortuella and Trapacaran cannot be achieved. Thirdly, it does not affect passenger traffic. Fourthly, to avoid the incorporation of freight traffic into the railway line of proximity which runs through the municipalities of Ortuella and Trapacaran. And, lastly, to give social utility and profitability to the more than 50 million euros invested by the socialist government in the tunnel of Serantes, by promoting its opening. You, Mr Reyes, have a habit of talking about birds and flowers, etc., and on this subject we are going to talk about facts, concrete data. We, the Basque Nationalist Party, already referred to this point in the electoral programme, and said one of its initiatives: to promote the construction of the southern railway variant of Metropolitan Bilbao. And since it was not among the priorities of the Ministry of Development, it offered this possibility of carrying out the works through commission. And on 9 April 2013, before the parliamentary term of office in December 2013, the councillor sent a letter to the head of the Ministry of Development showing her the willingness to collaborate in the progress and development of the South Railway variant project and proposing the possibility of signing an agreement using the economic concert route, the Economic Concert Act and the Railway Sector Act, as is currently being done with the high-speed train. If you want, then I can give you more specific information about meetings, letters and more. I would ask you what steps, with concrete data – as I have given you and as I will give you in the second intervention, because I do not have time now – the Socialist Government did in its mandate on this subject. Nor do we know (data Mr.Reyes, not words) that those responsible for the port authority during those years raised great concerns about this. And, with regard to the project of the southern railway variant – I don't know if you know it, or I misinterpreted it – it logically goes into a tunnel, and it doesn't pass through any urban core, with which we understand that if the southern railway variant were realized, that objective would be clearly achieved. Another fact that draws our attention to its GNP is that it obviates the Basque Government. He mentions the ministry, the municipalities, etc., but under no circumstances does he refer to the Basque Government. Perhaps that could explain that during the socialist term in that institution little or nothing was done about it on this issue that they are so concerned about. Perhaps they thought that the Basque Government had little to do on this issue, and that is why in its three years and peak of government they did not move an apex. With regard to the transactional... Yes, it is true, and we appreciate your intention to reach an agreement, but, as I said, we had tabled, we had adopted a compromise amendment in the committee in December and things are being done in order for the parliamentary order, and we understood that that is the way forward, and we did not introduce anything else that changes, because there is no reason to change. Finally, regarding you and the subject of information, I was commenting that you called the Counsellor this week to ask her for information. I remind you that you requested documented information dated 30 January, check-in on 30 January, and that the time limit for replying is until 3 March, without recourse to any amparo from the Bureau. The Board of Spokespersons that set this plenary session was on 5 February. You said we have nothing to discuss today, Mr. Reyes. Who has included this item in today's plenary agenda without having the information? Not us. Not us. With regard to Bildu, we do see some change, although we believe that it is not substantive, but formal, as demonstrated by Mrs Beitialarrangoitia's intervention, since in December 2013 they raised the two points which reflect her amendment of current totality plus two other points which complement and give a clear view of her approach on this subject. Its objectives are clearly – and this has been made clear – first, to abandon the idea of opening the Serantes tunnel, and secondly to declare itself inviable and also to abandon the project of the southern railway variant. Which I must say is not surprising at all, as it is a constant in its way of proceeding. It's inside your line of opposition to everything. On the other hand, they call for a social debate to be opened on the organisation of the territory and transport models. And in this sense we must tell you that we have been debating and working on this matter for more than thirty years, and you were neither expected nor expected. Well, some of you do, since at the beginning of the millennium the Territorial Railway Sectoral Plan of Euskadi began to be drafted, as the amendment relating to the railway management in the area of Bilbao Metropolitano and other municipalities was approved in 2005 by the tripartite government of the lehendakari Ibarretxe (yes, that tripartite government formed by the PNV, Eusko Alkartasuna and Ezker Batua), held the council of Environment and Planning of the Territory a councillor of Eusko Alkartasuna, which would have to say something about it. Therefore, ask, ask, in this mutant world, some fellow bankers and their coalition about this debate and their position on it. Just like your closest partner on the bench, you can explain it to him first hand. And then, also with the same Government, the study of alternatives to the draft outline was drafted, in 2005 and 2007. Therefore, we understand that the same debate has to be done within their own home to be clarified. And the reference to not spending money on projects that don't get started... Well, well, I don't know if he meant this one or others in particular. This is about finding feasible alternatives to solve the problem. So, what are they trying to do? We believe, we want to believe that they do not intend to close the port of Bilbao or its economic activity. Send over 20,000 trucks to the road, in an ecological exercise to the highest exponent? Sometimes here in this House they have been in favour of supporting rail transport, of transferring road transport to rail. Twenty thousand trucks, on the road. Decongests the road by reducing CO pollution 2 - No, no, no, What is your proposal to solve your problem of the entry and exit of goods from the port of Bilbao? I'm finishing up. With regard to UPyD, with regard to its amendment, as you have already mentioned here, we think it is a statement of principles, but it does not solve any of the problems. The same goes for the Serantes tunnel, a southern railway variant, as for the Murcia railway. Nor are the problems of the neighbours of Ortuella, Trapacaran and Santurtzi solved, nor are the infrastructures that allow an economic growth of the port of Bilbao improved. In line with the first paragraph of your amendment (since it is not, therefore, equally not worth mentioning either)...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u50	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u51	... the Juncker plan establishes the trans-European railway connection to Bilbao as a priority, and precisely at the initiative of the European Commission, in this case or the Spanish Government. And with regard to the second paragraph, then, let me say that it is like the value in bullfighters, which is supposed to be. We therefore understand that our amendment is the one that can best solve this problem, and we will vote against the UPyD amendment. Finally, regarding the People's Party, of which, as on many occasions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u52	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u53	...our group has denounced the roller...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u54	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u55	... and the Spanish Government's lack of receptivity to most of our demands, on this occasion, and by virtue of being fair, it must be acknowledged that for some months now, the Ministry of Development has been very receptive to the proposals made by the Basque Government in this area, as I have already pointed out. We would therefore like to conclude by thanking the Group of the European People's Party for its support for our amendment as a whole. We believe they will support us, as they did in December 2013...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u56	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u57	I'm just finishing up, for a second. [[Barres]] ... And the current predisposition of the Ministry of Development to seek collaboration with the Basque Government...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u58	Finish it. There's a second turn.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u59	That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u60	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing over the uncorrected teams, the representative of the Potion Party, Mrs. Ruiz has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u61	Thank you, Madam President. For once the Basque Nationalist Party was going to throw flowers at the Basque People's Party and the Government of Spain! It's a shame he did it out of time. I would encourage you to use your second shift to focus on that line of communication. Mr Reyes, among the communication problems that you have with the Basque Government, between the lack of information that you denounce, which prevents you from dealing with this debate with more elements of judgment, and, above all, with the impermeability that you manifest, knowing, because you have made yourself public, the progress, the movements and the willingness that there is to be understood between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain, sincerely, you do not honor... I quote from a sentence I read from the last debate in this Parliament (I was not yet a Member). He said, "Let's see if we're really useful politically to the citizens here today." Well, honestly, I don't think this debate is going to be very useful, and it could have been saved for now. And I say this because the parliamentary initiative that is being debated today is the socialist reaction to the conference that Minister Pastor delivered in Bilbao, invited by El Correo, within the framework of the Economic Expectations forum. Mrs Pastor's intervention, of course, addressed issues such as the TAV, the Serantes tunnel, and the southern railway variant, in front of a large audience, and had a lot of media echo. After all, we are talking about a major player in the most important investments being made in Euskadi. And those reflections that the Socialist Group had in presenting an initiative in this Parliament have not now had them for, with the new declarations, with the new situation, one of two, or having withdrawn this proposal, or having made a new one. In short, your debate and initiative is out of time, but yet you are committed to discussing it. Good. Because between that conference that gave rise to this initiative and this debate that we are having today we have counted again with the presence and the work of the minister in the Basque Country, and this last visit, which took place last month, what has shown is that the foundations are being laid for a great institutional consensus in relation to the future of the southern variant railway and the tunnel of the Serantes; an agreement and a collaboration that goes through a great institutional understanding between the Government of Spain, the Basque Government, also the port of Bilbao...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u62	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u63	...and the municipalities affected. We must also remember that the European institutions, which are asking Brussels for help in connection with this connection, are going to be there. Of course, the Socialist Party's non-legislative proposal is in line with the contradictions that the Socialist Party has been distilling throughout recent history, over the past two decades, with regard to this infrastructure. I am not going to remind you of them, the Members who have already spoken before me have already done so. But the initiative, the tone of it, I would say even to the little conviction with which it has defended it, defuses, and much, with the attitude of the Government of Spain and the Minister of Development after the working meetings held with the Councillor for the Environment and Territorial Policy, Mrs Oregi, and with the Board of Directors of the Port of Bilbao. The minister has publicly stated that the deadline of 2015 is given to carry out with the Basque Government, the port of Bilbao and the municipalities affected the project of the variant south railway, which will serve to quickly remove the goods that are loaded and discharged on the docks of the port. Don't you think, Mr. Reyes, this is a good starting point? To the Basque Socialist Party, of course, the attitude and disposition of the Ministry of Development following its recent visit to Bilbao seems to have left them imperishable, as if time had stopped and no movement was taking place, nor were other attitudes and efforts being made to reach solutions that, as everyone has recalled here, are certainly not easy. The ministry is also carrying out a functional study of the Bilbao railway network and its environment that is not yet completed. The People's Party would have liked the Socialist Party to have reacted not only to the statements made by the minister in the El Correo forum, but also to the latter, and would have joined the will for consensus and cooperation that the Spanish Government and the Basque Government are already working on. Of course, the goodness and advantages of a railway solution to the transport of goods are known, assumed and shared by all, as I suppose it is also shared by all political groups that the solution has to be viable, at a reasonable cost, that can be assumed, and that solves the problems of the territory. Only in this way is it understood that here we come to work for a consensus and a solution. As far as the amendments are concerned, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia's amendment is that we do not share it and we are not going to vote on it. Mr. Maneiro's, either. And, as Mr Zorrilla has already announced, we will vote for the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Passing the answers, Basque Socialists, Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u65	Thank you, Madam President. Well, the question is obvious: we are in an election year. A year ago, this issue was discussed in this Parliament, and the People's Party Government did not find out, did nothing about the southern railway variant, did nothing about the settlement of goods traffic in the mining area. I mean, he hasn't done anything. The minister has come, and in November she said what I have read before: first open the Serantes tunnel, and then see if there are solutions. And the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party have spoken for, with nothing in their hands, because nobody here has presented anything... And what Mrs Ruiz, the representative of the People's Party, has said is that a proposal will be made during 2015. I have not heard any representative of the Basque Government... Well, the Basque Government has not spoken to me, although I have asked, but I have not heard any Members of Parliament today... Mr Zorrilla I have not heard him say that there is a signed agreement, even if it is of intent; where he is. Because just come here and show it, and we're done. There is a media noise because the elections are coming, and then God will say, but, man, between now and May we are moving that there is a solution for the neighbors of Ortuella, Trapacaran..., and the rest will be seen. Yes, they're intentions! How can the Socialist Party not listen to intentions, after years collaborating with people on platforms, on the street, giving face! After that government that you say you didn't..., a minister came here and committed herself to the end that we had to give a solution that didn't go through the urban cores. After last year I did the same thing I am doing today, look, try to avoid harm to the citizens of the mining area, one of the most punished areas of Euskadi, also in the railway area, that crosses like rotten veins the peoples of the mining area, that prevents urban regeneration and that prevents quality of life. And you're saying you're going to open the Serantes tunnel without giving a solution, because the solution here is none. Where are the papers? Where's the agreement of intent? There's no solution. They say, to get goods out. The port of Bilbao – it is true, I said a year ago – is the one that has the greatest traffic of the Atlantic arc, and that, if the tunnel of Serantes opens, will increase the passage of goods and we will manage to remove trucks from the road. That's right. Therefore, the only possibility of reasonable traffic goes through the southern variant. And it turns out that the approved proposal of the Basque Nationalist Party has two paragraphs in which it speaks only of the southern railway variant. How can you come to say now that you are doing the southern variant, when the current traits you say you are proposing are not included in the informative study of the southern variant? But what a southern variant that is! If the southern variant coined for the entire population is the route that frees the Great Bilbao, which goes beyond Basauri, which connects with the Basque Y, which gives way to all the goods of the port of Bilbao, what southern variant are they talking about? Where's the southern variant? They're doing a cheat, they're doing something for the election, which, crystallize or not, flatten people. Messages without content and with lies, because it is not the southern variant. It's not the southern variant. Tell me where you were, in the layout of the southern variant, what you said you proposed today. Regarding – and I care – the request for information to the counselor, look, I did it cleanly (a phone call), and I told her it was really to clear me up, so she would tell me a little bit about how things were going. He could have told me that he had nothing concrete and that he had nothing to say to me, but he told me textually – and I say this because you have affected, and I'm sorry – that you are working with Fomento, there is nothing concrete, and that you have left to study it, and that he would give me information. Until today, and that's the truth. And it is not a question of whether or not you have submitted a request for documented information. If you'd told me no, no. It is a matter of the word of a adviser to the Basque Government. That's what we're talking about. Lack of conscious information after saying it was going to be given. So, Mrs. Beitialarrangoitia, when someone proposes a transaction to another group, that group usually – and you are pleased – gives an alternative to see if there is a rapprochement. There was none. I mean, it's not that I didn't want or make or compose the figure to make a transaction. I offered him a transaction, and there was no more. That's it. That's it. That you can understand, because they're very distant positions, but don't use it. I know that when we get out of here, everyone will have to be portrayed in the valley, they will have to be portrayed in Ortuella... Everyone's gonna have to do that. Don't look at the suit there from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u66	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Lady Betivina, representative of the EH team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u67	Thank you. Mr. Reyes, I don't have to paint. If I try to make a deal with someone else that was yours, I don't either make a deal or something that the other doesn't approve of. That's why I didn't try to give you half-way, because I knew your position and mine were different. That's what I said, and so don't come here because there's been an effort to tell me. I didn't try because we have two different positions. And you wanted to sell as an effort something that passes through a paper or a proposition, and that's not for me to make an effort. An effort demands an attempt to approach the position of the other, which has not been done, and I interpret it. And I also asked you to vote on points and you didn't answer me. I don't know whether I'm not supposed to admit it, and then I'll think that the interest of the Socialist Party isn't actually opening or opening Serantes, but making a detour at all costs, and I'm against that project at all costs, but in any case I'm still saying whether it's ready to vote or not at the moment when the vote comes. And another point. Here some have been mentioned as positive and others negative. I don't know what supersur has from positive, 900 million, Aldundia for 35 years, some people use to make careers because there's hardly traffic. If that's positive, we're not positive at the Basque Country. That's obvious. And tell the people of the Narrows to see if they're not only to be so, but if they're parallel now, what's positive for their quality of life? And if they answer what I've been told before, they'll say nothing. And pass, ask the representatives of Ortuella and Trapaga, why did they just sign a motion and say that what they agreed is not to open up in the Serantes tunnel? Besides, in one of the two councils, a new point says that the council will make two attempts to make use of all the means which lie in his power, so that he may not open it. So maybe you've got negatives at your game, not just positive ones. Or, perhaps, we defend ourselves by an attitude we are and where we are, just as one remembered that we are in the year's eulogy. The Basque Country has been defending the same thing in both cases which has been discussed about Serantes, and I have explained today that today, with two points, the preceding four, it is because at this moment we think it the priority of opening the tunnel alone, and not confounding it with the quality of the inhabitants of life. And in that trying to put a accent on it, but be careful not to change the opinion we have of the way around. Because our attitude remains like other macro projects, so that we don't have another $700 million. What, clarro, the representative of PP here, has said that a project must be useful and that it must be a reasonable cost. Well, it's not the Supersurrs or the Lobsters. And still less, when the Government says it itself, and he himself acknowledges that here he is doing a examination, which belongs to the traffic of travellers and merchandise, which lasts a couple of years or so, he has already carried on with it a few months before he thinks he ought to be able to open it or not. But I don't know whether the year-old as well has been applied to him now, whether he has been in a hurry, whether he can wait two years, and at any cost, I don't know, because in return you're going to open that tunnel. I can see the position our team has. I understand that today the most important thing for us is to stop the serantes tunnel. Other people thought so too. Let us try to make this possible by the vote, and to keep each one in his own position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. Myst. Mr. Maneiro must not speak. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Zurrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u69	Eskerrik asko. I'll try to make up for the time before. I have to tell you, Mr. Reyes, that you have a lot of boldness, I would say that a superlative boldness, scratching, if not surpassing, fearfulness, and then calling liars to others solves everything. As Mr Damborenea also told you in the committee in December, you have the custom of asking others to do what you Socialists have not been able to do. I asked him one very specific thing: what steps did the López Government take in its three and a half years in this area. I haven't heard any answers. I've provided you with the data. On 9 April 2013 (I don't think it was an election year) this government has already contacted the Ministry of Development to take an interest in the matter. If I have time, then I'll give you other data. See how easy you had it so as not to harm the neighbors of Ortuella and Trapagara and facilitate the lifting of the roads of Santurtzi: during the years 2009 to 2011 the socialist governments in Gasteiz and Madrid coincided. Look, Mr. Reyes, in three years, if they had wanted to, how much progress could have been made on this issue. Birds and flowers, as you usually say, Mr. Reyes. Perhaps they had other priorities at the time, such as the attempt to extend the metro to Castro Urdiales, despite the fact that the parliamentary mandate told the lehendakari López to prioritize the southern railway variant. They had occasion, they had it in a drawer, in 2008 they put it in a drawer, and now they come to have others solve the problems. Of course it's election year (you said so), and you're trying to make media noise! Who has raised this issue in this plenary, Mr Reyes? The Government is working in collaboration with the Ministry, and is working to find a solution, a solution that was not sought from 2009 to 2011. Perhaps that is why, because the elections are approaching and they are trying to recover an area they lost, on the one hand thanks to the important work and commitment of the men and women of EAJ-PNV, but on the other hand because of their non-compliance in the area and, therefore, because of their lack of credibility. They say they just want the neighbors in the area not to get hurt. So do we, but you doing what? Nothing. We believe that the solution is the southern railway variant, and that is why we bet on it. And one thing we would ask you: that you do not generate any more alarm and uneasiness to the neighbors of the area, and that you let me do, that the approach in which the Basque Government is working with the Ministry of Development is the best solution for the neighbors of Ortuella, Trapacaran and Santurtzi, as well as improving and guaranteeing the railway traffic. Moreover, we encourage you and your group to support our entire amendment. Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, we have already told you that we are not at all surprised by your position. We're on the no. In the commission it literally said: "Gu ezezkoan gaude". Let's see if they start getting over it and move on to the "maybe" to finally get to the positive. You are opposed to everything, yes: to the growth of the port of Bilbao, indirectly or directly, to the Serantes tunnel, to the southern variant railway, to the high-speed train, to Petronor, to the incinerator gipuzcoana, etc., etc. You want to anchor yourself in time or go back to another century, where your approaches are probably more ecological, we do not discuss it (perhaps with a lot of garbage accumulated in some territory, but more ecological), but increasingly poor, with less productive economic activity, with more unemployment, and therefore with less income for the development of social policies. And we will have to devote ourselves to agriculture and livestock, with all due respect for this very important sector in our country. The economic impact data of the port of Bilbao, which I have not previously provided, generates 700 million euros to the gross domestic product of the Basque Country, and generates about 10,000 direct jobs. And then, when the annual preparation of budgets arrives, they will rewrite their letter to the Olentzero asking, as in this case in the previous year, 550 million more for employment policies, to generate employment... First we destroy it and then we create it, but the big question will be with what revenue. Finally, the PP – now yes, within the right time – we would like to have to recognize and thank him for the Spanish Government's willingness to our demands one full yes and another too. That would be a good sign for Euskadi's interests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u70	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. And to conclude that Euscala is the representative of the Popula team, Mrs Ruiz has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u71	Thank you, President. Mr. Zorrilla, it costs you, eh! Few, few seconds, but, finally, keep trying. Mr Reyes said that the issue is obvious: it is an election year, and, of course, governing becomes a permanent campaign. But it's not like you say it. You, who are a scholarly parliamentarian, may know the theories of Blumenthal there in the eighties of the last century, or more current in this century, of Morris, who spoke of that: it is that governing is a permanent campaign, because you have to be making decisions. Yeah, it's election year. For me, for you and for everyone. It was also last year, it will also be the next... It's just that we're always campaigning, but in the right sense of the word. And if that means making decisions, governing, facilitating agreements and seeking solutions, then welcome are the election years. And thanks to me, he's asking us for an agreement of intent. You can, you can informally call the counselor and get out of formalisms of requesting documented information, but others have to demand an agreement of intent. He is not worthy of the word of Basque, or Basque, and also manifested publicly. But, well, in his mind, he's not getting any consensus. I believe that today you have stood out, and you are giving material to make electoral campaign, not government decisions, for specific municipalities facing the municipalities. He's accused us of plating people, of wanting to placate them by giving them oxygen balloons, of lying, of electoralists... Of course, with those limbs I hardly see that you can join any agreement this year, which, as it is electoral and we have elections in May and probably at the end of the year, because, then, I don't think we can count on you to row and seek a solution to the Serantes tunnel and the railway network and to make the port something more competitive. In short, everyone has reminded you of what you were able to do and did not do so while you ruled. And it's just that you haven't done here even a melancholy exercise of what might have been and wasn't. That's right, demands, sensitivity to neighbors... Look, fortunately, our responsibility is to govern in Spain, and the minister is making commitments, she is doing it publicly. And you have the ability to control the government here and also in the Congress of Deputies, and you will be able to see throughout the year how what has been a disposition of intentions, even if it is not reflected in a convention, is going to be translated into reality. And, if not, on time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. All right, we're done talking, we're going to vote. A vote has been requested. Mr. Reyes, you're going for a little vacation? Do you accept? Yes, they admit it. Marian, can you tell me how? Please. Wait. One, two, three together, and four apart. Okay, we're going to vote for the first of the original text of the Euskal Socialists as a team. First point. One. We can vote. After the vote, the result was this: in companies, 72; votes given, 73; supporters of 36; rivals, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 0. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u73	As a result, the first point is not accepted. After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; the opponents 15; the opponents are 57; white, 0; abstations, 0. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u74	Therefore two and three are not allowed. After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 15. The contrary, 36; white, 0; Absence, 22. [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u75	Consequently, the original proposition of the Social Party has not been accepted. (The pause) A vote has been this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 21; contraries, 52; white, 0; abstations 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u76	The correction of the EH Collect group is not accepted. (The pause) A vote has been this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; in favour 1, 72; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u77	The full correction of Misto-UPyD has not been accepted. (The pause) A vote has been this: in companies, 72; votes given, 73; supporters of 36; rivals, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u78	So, the US patriots are not allowed to rectify the whole group. The next round of the party that made the proposal is Mrs. lópez de ocarariz, representing the Basque Potula team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u79	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari, Counsellor. The sheep sector is the great one forgotten by the Basque Government, by this and by the previous ones. If we look at the Journal of Sessions of this House, periodically there appear initiatives referring to the sheep sector that mention mainly problems: problems in the collection of milk, problems of non-payment, problems of fraud at some point, which was sanctioned but which put the designation of origin Idiazabal in a limit situation... We are talking about irresponsible behaviour and, in some case, as I was saying, illegal behaviour by certain industries. Aldanondo takes the palm in these behaviors. Aldanondo Company whose father and mother is the Basque Government. It was born to support the production of Idiazabal, because at the beginning of this designation of origin there were few pastors who were dedicated to this production, and this company helped generate volume in order to take a position on the market. The spoiled child grew up, the government fed him very well and cared for his whims, and suddenly the child became a capricious monster, who picks up the milk of the shepherds as he pleases, pays when he wants and as he wants, and his behaviors have been scornful to the shepherds and even illegal, as he told them, in some case. The company has been defending itself with excuses: that the farms are very dispersed, that the volume of production is very low, that for them the costs are very high, at another time they had great stock of production because the sales had fallen, the consumption had been reduced, and therefore they did not have to collect milk... I would like to recall that in the 2010-2011 campaign (previous legislature) the Government made an effort to try to group producers together and generate a higher volume of collection and gain production capacity to have more negotiating capacity. They set up more efficient collection routes... The reality is that today, February 2015 (three campaigns, we are in the fourth), this company owes to the farmers who have delivered the milk a significant amount of money. We are talking about 600,000 euros, which is small producers. Three campaigns. There have been delays before, and this is unbearable. If the figure is important to each... That you'll say, "Some of you haven't closed." Why? Because it is not the only activity, because with this they cannot live, and they have other complementary activities. But, as I said, if the figure is important, the damage they do to the sheep sector is much more important, because it is essential to maintain the landscape, to maintain the planning of the territory, to maintain culture, traditions, to maintain a traditional elaboration with roots in our Autonomous Community and also recognized outside it, and with a desire to go abroad as well, even if the Government does not feel very well. Therefore, as I say to you, the damage is very important. In the two years this government has been in office, this circumstance was taking place. Already in 2014 we asked the Government what it was doing to resolve this issue. Well, the government – which did not tell us, but we heard about it – gave Aldanondo money to pay the pastors. And what did Aldanondo do? He paid some, some who belong to a union, in the spirit of not speaking, to shut their mouths. And to the rest, that they were not unionized or that they were not so relevant, therefore, he did not pay them. This is Aldanondo's practice. The councilwoman told us in this House that they were actually looking for another company to take charge of the milk collection, the making of the cheese, the taking over of Aldanondo and the debt he owes to the farmers. But it's that Aldanondo also drags in another debt. In 2006 or 2007, Aldanondo decided to make a new structure, asked the Basque Government for the aid that might correspond to it, had the aid... It coincided, in the parallel months in which the aid was delivered, when the ministry denounced him for fraud on Idiazabal labels, but, apparently – which was asked then by the government – the aid could not be denied. And he also asked for some repayable credits that he hasn't returned, that he already had to start returning, of which he's only returned... Ladies and gentlemen, a fiasco. A fiasco for the Basque Government's Arks, and a fiasco for the sheep sector, and a fiasco for the Basque Autonomous Community. Because the sheep sector (and the livestock sector, but the sheep sector) is very important, because of everything I have told you: because it is an economic activity in rural areas, and because it generates very important benefits for the whole territory, culture, traditions... As I said, very important in the primary sector. As I was telling you, some farms are still being maintained, but do you imagine, a young man who knows this, who wants to and can think about continuing with the exploitation? Do you think he wants to see the future, that he can make that decision, with this panorama? Of course, it has encouraged many young people not to make that decision. And this also harms what is the generational renewal of a sector that is so important. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, what we are presenting in your day, because we understood that we were in a situation of limit, is that the government create a fund that returns, that gives the farmers that money that Aldanondo owes them, and, when he finds that company – that they were supposedly working and that seems to be already there – that that company incorporates that money into the Basque Government, to the fund that was created in his day. I think it would be like an advance, as an advance to solve this important issue as are the defaults that this company has generated in the sheep sector. The initiative that we put forward was, indeed, for the Government to create this fund, and then what we were saying, that the aid lines of PDRS are now being negotiated, and that aid lines are being strengthened in favour of the livestock sector and especially the sheep sector. And we were talking about aid and lines to encourage the rejuvenation of the sector, and also aid that takes precedence over and enhances the incorporation of young people, and aid that strengthens the production sector, its structures, because it is important. The groups have tabled amendments, and, as we have also been aware – because this initiative was presented in October and we are dealing with it in February – it seems that there is already a company that will take over, what we say in the compromise amendment is that the Basque Government uses all the legal and administrative means at its disposal to ensure that Aldanondo pays as soon as possible the debt it has contracted with milk producers, as well as to facilitate and promote the commercial relations of those affected with other queseries. We say – and this is the incorporation of the Socialist Group – that we make a change of policy for the sheep production sector, boosting small and medium-sized cheeses, and that we make greater control of the aid it provides. To carry out the interinstitutional and sectoral work to structure and vertebrate the production of latxa sheep milk around the existing cooperative Latxa Esnea and others that could be created, and the small and medium transformation, such as, for example, Artzai Gazta and other small cheeseries. In the end, what we are asking you to do is to do the work for which you have competence and in which you have help to vertebrate, that of sheep's milk production and processing. In addition, we say that it exerts administrative pressure to ensure compliance with contractual commitments between milk producers and buyers, bearing in mind that perishable products, such as milk, must be paid within 30 days. In the end, what we say to the Basque Government is to comply with the Food Chain Control Act, which I believe is very explicit and which marks the exercise of the work that the Administration has to do to control that there is no abuse in the processes that take place in the food chain: the contracts, the prices that are paid to the producer, the abuses that are made in certain offers on certain areas, etc., etc., etc. And we also say that, according to the outlaws and within the PDRS, it reinforces the specific support measures for sheep's milk livestock production, as well as those affecting the generational relief. It is the amendment that we have signed by the three groups, which I hope the Basque Nationalist Group, which I do not understand why it has not signed this initiative, supports in the end, because I believe that what is said in it is very important. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u80	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing over the divisions which are set before them, the Representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Lazarus, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u81	Good morning, everyone. We've often been reporting from EH collect that this is the last 30 years of the New Year's farming policy in the wrong direction. In fact, as a compass, they have had an intense and special diet of agriculture, and the transformer of manufactures, the interests of great stalls and great corporations, are by default, before the interests of farmers and citizens. These relationships have been natural and historically connected between peasants and people and, in a conscious way, they have been deliberately broken, and that's why different policies have been used from EAKNY. And in this sense, as we have elsewhere mentioned, the peasants have forced themselves into the doors of a funnel and this funnel, the exit, the transformer industry. The peasants in a state of indeference, leaving them un autonomy to decide, and in a state of terrible dependence. And it's enough to observe the data that in the past 30 years three of the four peasants have disappeared. And the topic today, in the sheep-ese sector, if we look at the facts there, is what we see in the last four years, that 400 shepherds have lost 200. In this sense, we questioned Mrs. Tapia on her day, about the country police that had been pushed to and fro for the past 30 years, and she said they were rounds. And not for us. And the topic we have here today, this court of the Altar, is a test, an example, that the policies of the past 30 years have been wrong in the direction. In the court of the altar say that there are shepherds who turn milk into cheese and sell milk, and that there are also those who sell it. And that's where the altar comes to us, buy the milk of the shepherds, and make them milk. The great investment in the farewell plans was made a few years ago, which can even be called a macro project, there have been 22 million gallons of milk in the past few years to process it, but its capacity has been more than three times as big. And this big infrastructure has turned out to me from fun to help. As a direct support between 4,2 million 2004 and 2010, and 2006-7 years back as a return to 3 million dollars. In all, in ten years, the Altar is above 7 million euros. And then when we drive by by by by the side of the road, you see the chorus of "Comprommedos con nuestra" And this is a full lie. The EHNE union has accused him more than once, and in the autumn last, the Altardo owes the shepherds. Nor is it easy to determine the amount of that debt, and how many shepherds are involved, but there may be a number of 60,000 dollars, which the Altar owes. And in the four years of this subsector, we may say that he has come almost half-way, who gave milk to 427 farms in 2009, and in 2013, 241; four years, 200 herdsmen. And the right person to be responsible for this situation is fun because from the beginning he's done for this macro project, because the sector has been monopolized, and the pastors have been handed over to a few buyers, instead of betting on small cheeses and rhymes, because it's a bet on the central model. Besides, the shepherds have not had any collectives for many years. So many co-operatives and associations have been created in the sector, in this case no collective is complete in the sheep-ese sector. And in that sense, even EAJREK won't take half a step, rather than protect the interests of the shepherds, because he preferred to protect the interests of the altar and industry. In the middle between the opposition teams today, and Mrs. lópez de Ocariz tells us what the content of that medium is, and I'm not going to score it, but I'd like to say that what the opposition teams have agreed on here today is to change the policy that they've been asking you to change, because they've been wrong. Let the macro project cease to promote, and make a true bet for the cheese-houses, and encourage the multitudes of shepherds, and in this sense help them to increase and create new ones, so that the shepherds may better defend their interests in the presence of their industry. For the power of shepherds selling milk is the only way to guarantee the future of this sector. And it's just, you know, when you're talking about it, you know, it's gonna be like, like, you know, you know, like, like, you know, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, you know, That's inside his work to share his scholarships. But besides that, as a government, you have other things to do, so the sector will have a future. The sector must be dialized, the direction specified, the new routes performed. And in our opinion, EAJenK has done those jobs in a level. But the point is he did what he did in the wrong direction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u82	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. The Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs. Fresno. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u83	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. There are aid to producers, and there are aid to some producers. There's cattle that milk their cattle every morning, and there's a government that doesn't give them what's theirs. There are producers who are trying to maintain a productive model of sustainable rural development, and a government that says it helps them but allocates resources where it should not and does not enforce the law on due payments. And we're talking about that today. That's what brought us here. And today those who believe that it is the producers (who milk their sheep every morning, which then makes the cheese, which is prestigated to them, which gives us prestige) who must be helped, in an effort, we are the ones who ask to look at the small and medium producers. The sheep sector in the Basque Autonomous Community is going through a difficult and suffocating time. A suffocation resulting from the lack of evaluation of agricultural and livestock activity, the economic and structural situation it is suffering from, the reduction in the income of its products, which has been triggered by the upturn of cereals, fuels, a decrease in consumption and increasing external competition, which obliges the operation of the sector to increase its competitiveness. But also the declines in public aid, it all affects. And what makes the situation of producers serious is: the price of agri-food products is not profitable, uncontrolled increases in farm products (gas oil, fertilizers, livestock feed...), abandonment of farms due to their poor yield, uncertainty about the future of the common agricultural policy and its impact. For this reason, sheep farms have had and have to make an important investment to improve their livestock facilities, renewing the tooling and equipment. But extensive sheep grazing is not just a way to make a living; it is a model of production and a model of life, despite its modest profitability. And that way of life and model of production has a problem in origin. Many pastors, largely older, deliver their latxa sheep's milk to a long-established cheese company in the Euskadi agri-food landscape, and have not received any amount of milk delivered for many years. These shepherds are between the sword and the wall, because they feed their flocks with a very expensive feed, milk their sheep, and deliver the milk to this company without knowing whether they are going to charge or not, and at best, when they do. And some of them have thrown out the towel and stopped milking. Others, the luckiest, have given their milk to other cheeseries and are still in the sector. I won't give you the name of the brand. The Socialists do not want to harm a market production that wants to meet the needs of those who allow it to have markets. I will not give the name, because it is a brand that identifies itself with an excellent job in opening markets for Idiazabal cheese. However, his work many years ago does not justify the last actions of this company. The milk sheep sector suffers from a critical situation as a result of the company's defaults offered by the brand. The producer who makes this marketing possible delivers his milk, but there are many years of non-payment that the sector is suffering, a figure that is difficult to quantify, because many farmers do not dare to denounce; amount that can reach 600,000 euros, which means for many milk producers. Along with this complaint, they do not materialize for default in the courts. The data from the sector. Of the 427 houses dedicated to the sale of milk for the designation of origin Idiazabal, we have moved to half, 241. Continuing with data, while the production was bleeding, the company that I do not want to quote because it affects a brand and affects producers, has received aid from the Basque Government for an amount of 4,266,633 euros...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u84	Silence, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u85	... in addition to a reimbursable advance of 3 million euros, of which the company has returned only 90,000 euros. Aid for the sector does not go to the sector, it goes to a company. From the Socialist Party we call on this government to carry out greater control of the aid it allocates, especially when those who must be supported by the aid – which is the farmers, the producers, the ones who make it possible for this company to exist – suffer defaults, which in many cases have forced the cessation of the activity in which they work. This Government condemns the desperation of small and medium-sized cheese farms, which today would be an aid to the future of the producing sector. This Government must, and we call for it to do so, make a policy change to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises, to prevent their disappearance, which must be the future of the productive sector. We call for compliance with Law 15/2010, which states that payments for fresh and perishable products are paid within 30 days, and that liabilities in the event of non-payments are tightened. We believe that we need a restructuring of the milk sheep sector and public policies that take account of the need for the sheep sector. We all talk about the goodness of cheese with Idiazabal designation of origin, but if the current situation continues, what will happen to those products in ten years? How much do we want and what pastors are going to stay in these ten years? That is the question that all of us must ask: what do we want to do?, how do we want to help them?, what will happen to these people and their future? We must work to boost agri-food contracts to ensure prices, farms and product quality. We must draw up a plan for the improvement of the sheep sector, to meet the demands of quality and to guarantee milk production and cheese production. There must be a design, together with the livestock sector, of a specific strategy based on a value chain that includes viable farms. The agreement that we have reached reflects the concerns, concerns and ways of solving the problem that the sheep sector has been suffering for years, the request that they collect, necessary to change the course and make a change of policies, to give impetus to small and medium-sized enterprises to avoid their disappearance, which must be the future of the productive sector. We believe that coordination and all possible agreements to work together with outside parliaments and within the sustainable rural development programme are essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u87	Mahaiburu andrea, legebiltzarkideok, egun on curry guztioi. Faced with the error of the so-called vote and, therefore, the unexpected entrance of more public, I hope to bore less than the sheep, but the issue comes difficult to try to give him some joy. With small annual oscillations, more because of conjunctures than otherwise, the livestock sector in Euskadi contributes 32 % to final agricultural production. And the milk sheep sector is scarce, it is 22% of the total livestock, but it is of enormous importance – as has already been said here – for the contribution it makes to the management of the territory and the conservation of landscape through grazing. Focusing on what this GNP is bringing us today, which is nothing other than milk sheep, and particularly the milk producer for Idiazabal cheese, I think it is worth trying to frame the sector in the Basque agricultural sector. If in 2002 the census of sheep in the CAPV was 297,000, on 5,200 farms, with an average of 57 sheep and a milk production of 10.3 million liters, in 2012 it was 220,000 heads, on 5,800 farms, with an average of 38 sheep and a total of 7.4 million liters. In other words, in ten years the number of holdings had risen by 10%, but the number of sheep and milk production had fallen by 27%. However, and considering that the most valuable production is cheese, the cheese had risen from 1,135,000 kilos to 1,468,000 kilos, although in the middle it had had a higher peak. In other words, we have an increase in holdings in the range of what is called garden sheep, of less than 25 heads, which has risen by 46%, while the most professional, those of more than 100 sheep, have fallen by 37%. In other words, the sector has become smaller on farms. All this requires urgent consideration in order to reinvigorate this sector. The origin of a generic reference mark, as it is vastly large, with a good figure, with strict bonds, industry, and small cheese authors, are important points of strength, we cannot refuse them, especially if we consider what efforts we have done to set up this sector, whether the shepherds or the authorities have done. It must be assumed that it is a highly atomic sector, that its size is diminished, and that some professionalization is lacking in its commercial sector. He even affects the nutrient of the current economic crisis, and with all this he leaves the sector in a very bad situation. I will not deny that, if these facts are joined by the fact that a food industry owes a large amount of money to a large group of shepherds, those shepherds are put at risk, which in itself does not mean that the sector is at risk. That is, being a major problem, it is not the most serious one they face, although it may be the most urgent, especially for pastors who have not yet collected. Against what it may seem from the proposal presented by my friend and colleague Carmen López de Ocariz, the Basque Government has been working, and intensively, on this sector, and especially on the specific problem of defaults. Another thing is that Mrs López de Ocariz's initial proposal was unworkable, to create the fund. And she knew it, trading in a way that satisfies quite more, because it involves going back to the path of reasonableness. The current Basque Government, by the way, inherited the problem of the previous one. And it's not about throwing balloons out or blaming anyone; it's just finding a reality that turned out and is extremely difficult to solve, as it's a company that structures part of the sector (part, not the whole sector). Avoid suspension of payments, seek viability of a indebted company, maintain it with another model of manager and management, and not spend more public money if it is not for a credible viability plan with new managers and operations, recognize me that it is a hard-to-solve sudoku. But they also have no doubt that the Government is working hard on the issue. Well, treated this issue – I insist, of very difficult solution but now managed and with alternatives of supply for pastors victims of the defaults – it deserves to analyze beyond this concrete situation and deepen in a sector that, as I have said, is of vital importance for the maintenance of the space, the landscape and the rural world, and that has managed to produce, transform and market a product that identifies with us, with our country, with our rural world. In this regard, and precisely in order to address the sector as a whole, a strategic plan has been developed and is in the process of being finalized jointly by the Basque Government and the Navarro Government with the intensive participation of the sector (large, medium, small and small, of all) and is putting forward a significant number of objectives and strategies in the light of the weaknesses and strengths identified. It must be remarked from this plan that the number of shepherds must be encouraged and planned to introduce young generation-relations, and of course increase the number of written sheep. We have to raise the sector. Finally, even respecting the fact that the production units are large. The purpose is to enable the union of the Shepherds. What for? The rest, in order to merge the milksalment and give it a greater supply of negotiation. In addition, and considering that the current volume of Idiazabal cheese is insufficient to maintain a brand and ensure future stability, it should be encouraged to increase the number of small, artisanal cheeses, as well as some with a higher capacity for processing and marketing, which in the end provide volume to a product that needs it. In a product such as this, which is based on nature, rurality and craftsmanship, which is like Rioja Alavesa wine, it is necessary, essential, to combine a large number of small and craft industries with some or some of the largest, which provide content to a market that transcends the borders of the production area. If not, mid-term failure is guaranteed. Another thing is – and that is also transcendental – that companies that provide a sector with volume should act with sufficient professionalism, honesty and prudence so as not to put at risk farms supplying raw materials. In this strategic plan, drawn up jointly, I have already said, by the Basque and Navarro governments and by the sector, I can assure you that nowhere does there appear an action aimed at subsidizing pastors who have not collected milk. Nowhere. Nor does the request for a change of attitude from what has been done so far appear. On the contrary: strengthening what is being done; accelerating production growth, increasing marketing and growing the sector, without questioning that it is basically structured around small and medium-sized projects, as it has been so far. On the one hand, and to finish, for the time being, I can assure you that the government has worked intensively to reach an agreement that will allow the providers of the unpaid to provide clients with secure payment, and that, if you look where you look, is a triumph. It is a success to the extent that, although they maintain a debt, they can continue to work with the guarantee to collect. Now we have to work to replenish the debtor company and manage to repay the full debt as soon as possible. And, on the other hand, our intention in this GNP, with our amendment, was simply to ask the Government to step up its work to find formulas that would allow the pastors to pay off the debt soon, but without it devolving us from the fundamental mission, which is nothing other than to design and implement a global strategy for the milk sheep sector in Basque, which is why in the compromise we presented, in the amendment, we expressed the need to include in the RDP an approach to aid geared towards the needs of the sector, in order to achieve this secure progress on the path of sustained growth. In no case was it a change of course, because you don't know where, unless you want to go where now. And it's been going where it is now for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u88	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Misto-UPyD won't speak. Passing the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u89	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Mr Tellería tells me that our initial proposal to set up a fund is not viable. Yes, it's viable. That would not be the first time this Government has done that. Yes, it's viable. Where I have doubts, serious doubts, it is in that it is legal to give money to a company that owes to suppliers, under sleeve, without information, and that then that company, instead of paying (the goal with which they have given the money, pay), pays to some, and then devotes the money to not knowing what. Opaca, it has been an opaque act and it has failed to achieve the objective that seemed to be being pursued by the Government. Of course, the proof is that there are many farmers who have not charged. Mr Tellería has not told us if he is going to vote in favour of the initiative. Looks like it, doesn't it? As far as I know, the only glue Mr Telleria put on to sign this amendment was point 2, where it said "realize a policy change". And what you see as something negative to me is a blow to the government, recognizing it has some policy. Because, if we tell him to change politics, it's because we think he has one. Well, look, this government doesn't have any. This House has zero knowledge of the policies of this Government in the livestock sector, and in the primary sector (I am extending the arc). And you just have to go to the budgets, to what you have done in the budgets. Not a new line of help. Zero. And the ones that had cut them off. So what do you say we orient...? What? What did he say? That we direct the direction of these policies? What I believe, Mr Tellería, is that what we have to do is to encourage them to be strengthened, to generate productive structures. For what? So that they have more strength in the face of negotiations with companies, with industries. They are doomed to understand each other, but with more strength, because in the end their products have to be delivered. There will be those who can transform, and there will be those who can't. And you have not applied the law on improving the food chain to encourage associations to be established, contracts to be applied, etc., etc., etc. I therefore believe that what we are saying in this initiative to the Government is what it does not do, in fact, and the same in these two years it is putting the batteries and it is beginning to do something. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u90	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u91	Mr. Tellegio, you say the sector says we have to go on with what we've been doing now, we have to go deeper. And I'll tell you that this is a lie, that the sector has long been asking for what the opposition has agreed on in the medium here today. It's been years since the sector requires that. And you mention, from the present situation, that it requires reflection. The fact is that we all have made this reflection; you, as it seems, have not yet reflected. And in order to help me to make this reflection, in order to explain what has happened with the Alton, I shall try to make a comparison. We know 400 Shepherds have been selling milk a few years ago. Let's imagine a 400-work company where workers don't have a work agreement. The company does what they want, imposes the desired wages, imposes the conditions of the work he wants. That's the patriarchal dream. Well, that's what happened to the shepherds who sell milk in the sheep trader. And that's been protecting him and he's been protecting him. And besides, in that 400-work company, 200 workers, 200 shepherds, when they're fired, it's still by the company. For four years, as I said, 200 shepherds have left their own business, and this has been pretty quiet. And Mrs. Tapia also told us on her day that these were the pastors who had least professionalities. Have no respect for him. Behind these 200 pastors there are 200 different realities. There's also a economy. There's 200 sheep and there's 200 sheep in the Basque Country that washed those sheep 200 places. And all this happened with fun and protection. And it is praised here that the whole sector, which is contained in this formal origin, is, in some degree, to be resisted in a rather dignified manner in this present state of crisis. And what we're going to say is that it's not my merit at all. That's because the sector itself has invented self-defence, whether production, transformation, and marketing are done by many pastors themselves, because they fill the whole cycle. And this is what they do with a native race, a lalock with a sheep. And these principles have been defended in the Regulous Council of the Original Source, and I am sure that if the Jelt party of Eusis had been more able to produce or influence in this council, the interest of industry being continued to defend itself, besides milk, other foreign races would be admitted to this day in the name of the original Idibutarian origin. I'm sure that would be the case, because he's always bet to protect the interest of the transformer of industry, not the shepherds. And this is what happened. In the Navarre, the government of Navarre has also been encouraged by the challenge of the descent, besides the milk of lax, the milk of the sheep-breed, which is the origin of Assaf Israel, though later when the sector has taken control of the council, it has been restored again....
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u92	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u93	Yes, I'm going to finish it. The exclusiveness of milk that it has set. We're sure it was in your heads, too. So, listen to EAJ, there's a need for a new policy in the sheep-ese sector and that's what Congressional is asking for. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u94	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u95	Yes, Mr Telleria, the circumstances of the sector have changed, but they have changed to worse. That is why it is important not to anchor ourselves in the past. We believe that there is a need to improve the defence of the sector. Our group, the Socialist Party, is working to solve and solve in the best way the problems that the sector is going through and which endangers its situation. Mr Tellería, you have to work and look for the future. These decisions that we take are necessary, because they are requested and demanded by the sector. Our group is watching over the need for the moment and circumstances that this sector is going through, with all its problems and concerns, and thinking about its best future. In the measures to be boosted in the sheep sector of our Community, it seems to us that it is important to work with the primary sector, in order to generate more value added activity, so that there is awareness of the consumption of local products, their sustainability and involvement in the management of the territory. The aid plan for the agri-farming sector must be evaluated annually in order to respond adequately to its needs. More support and support will be provided for the generational empowerment and integration of women. The profession of pastor requires high availability at work, and is characterized by harsh living conditions, which in some ways explain the extent of the problem of generational relief within the sector. The role of women in the sheep sector. Women are the ones most affected by the refusal to give up ownership and control of exploitation. The possibility of women succeeding their parents in exploitation is certainly a complex and unique process. It is necessary to promote the conditions of women entrepreneurs, and this generates an identity of rural women, capable of becoming a professional farmer by their own decision. Training is a fundamental tool to contribute to the professionalisation and qualification of sheep farmers. My group, the Socialist Party, ask for better and better training for people who have dedication, work and are linked to the production, management and marketing of livestock, and in particular to the sheep sector. We must work together in training. Professionalized development and research associations and entities are responsible for the production, processing and marketing of this sector. The primary sector must feel socially and economically supported by this Government, which must ensure with greater commitment to protecting, assisting and promoting this sector which is so unprotected. It is necessary to use the acquisition of values in the system of management of local races, respectful of people, animals and the environment, managing the land through the use of pastures. For the better development and proper way of energizing the sheep sector, it is important that the sector be able to have coordination between municipalities, outlaws and the Basque Government. All must work to implement measures to strengthen trade, to enhance existing scenarios, and also to seek new activities. It is essential for the development of our Community, making people's lives more attractive, especially for the younger population, by offering new activities to prevent the ageing of the population. Institutions which I have appointed and which must feel the importance and work for the future of the agricultural sector, all of them must defend the interests of farmers in the implementation of the common agricultural policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. And to finish up, Mr. Telllería, who represents the team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u97	Thank you, ma'am. When that company, which, by the way, is not a big company, is in the SME category (Aldanondo is a very small SME), he suggested and requested to create the industry, because there was, it is true, and there is still, more milk production than cheese processors, so it came well. No one criticized that appearance. Another thing is that an entrepreneur then has unfair, illegal, wrong behavior... But that is a problem for that entrepreneur and it will have to be the Administration that tries to put it in order, but it is not bad the very existence of the company as such. Surely for you yes, but it is that with you I have already given up, because your vision of the sector and mine is that they are radically different. In any case, the debate will always be exciting, but in what you and I think is the agricultural sector (conclusion, honourable Members) we are radical disagreements. What he thinks and what I think and we will continue to think is radically different. Isn't that right? Okay. For from there with you I renounce to continue discussing what the sector is. Now, I am surprised that, for example, Mrs Fresno, of the Socialist Party, says that we must change, when they, in the government until three days ago, used the decrees that they are saying today to change, that they are the same decrees that we had and that they are the ones that fundamentally empower the small and medium-sized. The same aid decrees, the same incentive. Moreover, I invite you to see, from 2010 to 2014, the aid that was given to you by the Basque Government. Read them. If you see any... I've got the last five, I can go further. The biggest is Aldanondo, which is a pyme. And of course you have been given EUR 7 million, as you said! Do you know how much Aldanondo put on, and what do you know that I have no affection for him? EUR 29 million. Do you know of any assistance that was given in 2011 to a cooperative that you mentioned in the transaction, to a cooperation project? He was given 125,000 euros. Do you know how much that cooperative put in? Zero potato. Such things happen, because they are subject to the law and the decrees in force. So, it's been a lot of years doing things one way, and right now there's a strategic plan just finished with the sector, Mr. Lazarobaster. Mrs López de Ocariz, the Basque Government has never given Aldanondo money to pay the debts, not even under sleeve. And if you say an accusation like you did, so strong, you'll have to prove it. You'll have to prove it, because it's too strong. There are confirmations of banks, banks that give confirmations not with government money. That doesn't have to do with a money that goes under the line. I hope at some point he denies what he said, because it's not true. The Basque Government has not given Aldanondo a hard time to pay the pastors. Quite the opposite. And, with regard to the compromise, we will vote on 1 and 5 in the affirmative, more than anything because they are the amendment that we tabled, although you have deteriorated it literally. I mean, ours was so much prettier literaryly than the one you left behind. But the important thing is the idea... the aesthetics are often important, eh! As for the 2nd and the 3rd... Regarding the 2, let's say no (I think it's the 2, or the one that says we have to change the policies). We are not going to change policies, because, when you are saying that we support small and medium-sized people, it is what this policy does, it is what those decrees do. Read them, read Lehiatu, and you will see what Lehiatu is supporting! So, let's say no. And we are going to abstain in the other two, basically because that is what is being done, and I have never seen a compromise amendment that uses so much advertising from cooperatives and brands. They could have used others. Me, if I had an Idiazabal cheese shop and I didn't see the name of my cheese shop on this one... It looks like a two-complaint ad and two co-operatives! So, we don't like it, and in any case we're going to abstain, because the idea we're talking about seems interesting to us. And, in any case, basically the differential with the sector with Mr.Lazarobaster is that it is a question of size: what you think huge, to me seems small. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u98	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Eztabaida loved denez, bozketara passako gara. Puntuka bozkatzeko arazorik badago? Is there a problem with the point vote? No, no, Okay. We're gonna vote. We can vote 1, 5... [[Berber]] Itxoin, itxoin! Is there a problem? Arazoa dago bozketa puntuka bozkatzeko, ez? Jarri teens. (Berbotsa) Well, it's enough that there's a group... The Socialist Party, Mrs Fresno, do you have a problem? No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u99	I just want to ask you to listen: can you vote for points? Would you let this vote for points? And if someone says no, say no. I'd also like to hear the reason, but, well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u100	Eskerrik asko, Luisja Telleria. Away from the doubly piggy bank. Lopez de Ocariz anderea...?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u101	None of the three groups that signed the compromise amendment want to vote for points. Here someone wants to entangle... We do not want to vote for points. Do you understand?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u102	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. But when I asked you, you said something else, and Mrs. Fresno said she agreed. But, okay, he still agreed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u103	Yes, Madam President, we have no problem doing it both ways. No problem. [[Barres]] I mean, we don't have a problem doing it for points. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u104	That's what you said from the beginning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u105	That's it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u106	Ados, all right. Lalabaster, I know you said no. Yours was clear, the rest of it wasn't so clean. Because the two teams don't agree, we vote on the united text. The transaction, the popular Basque team, the Basque Socialists, and the EH Collectors vote for the middle-line correction. We can vote. (The pause) A vote has been this: the votes given at the assembly, 70; the votes given, 71, 43; the contrary, 27; white, 0; abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-02-12.u107	So we have accepted the half-path correction. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-nine.
