ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u0	Good morning, everyone. I'll start the whole meeting. Before the list of subjects, tell them that the new House of God has delegated the vote, and that the third point has been left for another. First point in theme list: "Mation, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Popula team Carmelo Barrio Barroja, in question De Miguel of Gastine. After the court's car, it's about the sizes of the RedMunch. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Barrio, it's your word to introduce and remove initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u1	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari, members of the Government, good morning. Egun on. In the debate of the interpellation in the full past I intended to have a constructive spirit, and to see what efforts the Government was making to neutralize attitudes such as those described in the Vitoria-Gasteiz Judgement No. 4 in relation to what was and is known as the Minhano case, the Kataia case, the De Miguel case... He's had other denominations. The order describes situations and behaviour related to the commission of certain offences (prevarication, misappropriation of public funds, bribery, money laundering, trafficking in influence and a few more), which have some of them incidence and sustenance in unlawful actions within the framework of the actions of persons forming part of different Basque public administrations and their public societies. Ways of proceeding that affected public money and that were part of the relations of political leaders with private companies and individuals mainly, including companies and companies without activity and without workers. It is clear that today we are awaiting the final trial, as decided by the judge who investigated the case, but also, if the time has elapsed at that stage of investigation, it has also done so for how it should and can be addressed from the political and administrative controls that these circumstances do not occur again, or that it is much more difficult to occur. It is true that we are talking about people's responsibilities, but it is no less true that steps can be taken and measures taken so that those behaviours described by the judge can be neutralized. As I said in the interpellation, I am not going to enter the field of names or charges, but as far as subsequent actions and control efforts are concerned. We would like to know whether the Basque Government has taken seriously the recommendations of the parliamentary committee of inquiry, which took place primarily in 2011, and which had its final report or opinion adopted in plenary session of this House on 10 May 1012. Last day Councilman Erkoreka said they were working, and we want to check it out. I will not recall the work of the committee, here is the opinion, but I do want to focus on the fact that this opinion, in addition to conclusions and responsibilities, made a number of recommendations to the Government. This plenary made a number of recommendations to the Government, and they are a fundamental part of the work of the commissions of inquiry, at least in the parliamentary practice of this House. Recommendations which had to do with improving procedures and controls in certain aspects relating to public sector contracts, minor contracts, contract splitting, the Office of Economic Control, motivation in the award of minor contracts, sufficient publicity, information on the website of the Basque Government, analysis of invited companies and their competing interests, the authorization to the Office of Economic Control to verify the presentation of the works carried out, the performance of technological parks and public companies as contractors... A comprehensive list of recommendations and actions urged the Basque Government, concrete actions. The parliamentary investigation focused on the actions of political leaders of the General Administration of the Basque Country and other administrations, but in particular the actions focused on departments such as Culture or Industry, or on public societies such as the Álava Technology Park or Sprilur. The Public Service Adviser has already told us that work was being done on the development of those recommendations, on the substance of the inquiry, and in that sense it is where we want, in order to verify this, to raise the motion you know. Something very serious has happened with the case of Miñano, with the case of De Miguel, and the society wants it to react to these cases, which react strongly to these cases. The case of Miñano or Kataia or De Miguel has taken place in many areas of public action, and we must react. We have to react. In that regard, we, from the Basque People's parliamentary group, called for the House's support for the following motion, which was adopted at the plenary session on 27 March 2015. The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to make a report within the current session on the extent to which the recommendations addressed to the Executive contained in the opinion of the Commission of Inquiry into alleged irregularities in the Departments of Culture and Industry and on the alleged espionage by agents of the Ertzaintza, approved by the plenary of the House on 10 May 2012. That is the motion we put forward. I think it's a job you can do at this time. The counselor has already said that he was advanced, so in that sense I think there is enough time. And, with regard to the amendments tabled, I believe that both are constructive. I also understand that Mr Maneiro's, which I share 100%, deserves a separate debate, and I would like the representative of UPyD himself to put it in the form of a non-law proposal or as he sees fit. I believe that it requires a specific debate in relation to regrettable public proceedings, in relation to the reaction to this judicial case, and, in that regard, I believe that it does deserve a separate debate, but I believe that the object of this motion and of this initiative is precisely to have information from the Government on those concrete actions. And I say to you that I share 100 percent of what Mr Maneiro has put forward in his whole amendment, but in any case I think we have to focus on what the specific motion says. On the other hand, there is the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party, which wants to extend the deadline for the submission of the report, something which I understand would unduly delay parliamentary work and would be detrimental to the effect that Parliament took some initiative. That is, we understand that it is good that the report is at this session, so that if we have to take some legislative or other initiative (controlling, pushing for government action) we have enough time. And I think that besides the work would have to be done already. It is several years, it is three years of work on this subject, i.e. at least the status report of the recommendations I believe can well be presented during the month of June, and that is the approach. I think that's the point. The amendment of the whole of the Basque Nationalist Party I believe is not beneficial, simply extending the deadline, because parliamentary work would be delayed. And what we want is to identify what has been done in order to comply, and I understand that that should take little time. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u2	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing over to the direct teams, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u3	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Counselors. Mr. Lehendakari. The motion put forward by Mr Carmelo Barrio is fine, but it is clearly insufficient, in our view. He doesn't say much, and he doesn't make much. After all, what it is intended to do is to urge the Government to make a report within the current session on the level of implementation of the recommendations made by this Parliament three years ago, and I believe that this is little, knowing what we already know today, knowing what has happened, or some things that have happened, and having also known and having heard in particular some absolutely regrettable and unacceptable statements made by senior leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party on this issue over the past few days. And I believe that this Parliament must have sufficient agility to be able to discuss matters that are fully topical. That's why I say this motion is fine, but it's very limited and it's short. I believe that today in this Parliament we should be prepared to be somewhat more forceful, to say more than just asking the government to submit that report before 30 June. I think we would be willing to say something else, and that is what we propose that this Parliament should say today. We could actually withdraw the amendment, postpone it or present an initiative to talk about the unacceptable statements by Mr Egibar or Mr Ortuzar, and talk about them within a month and a half or two months, or perhaps after the summer, but it seems to me that we have the opportunity to talk about those statements today, because there is an amendment talking about the issue. Statements that focus on this issue that we are discussing. Therefore, why are we going to postpone discussions? This Parliament must have sufficient agility to be able to discuss matters of full relevance, and the statements made by senior leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party trying to condition justice are absolutely imprehensible, and I therefore call for the vote of the opposition groups and for them to vote in favour of the amendment tabled by UPyD. Furthermore, I believe that this Parliament has to say and stand clearly against certain corrupt or allegedly corrupt actions, and I believe that we would also be able to do so. The amendment is here, I think it is very topical, and I therefore maintain it. In relation to the facts, it is obviously not worth reviewing the facts relating to the case of Michael; we all know them, and we know the gravity of them. The truth is that it all began in December 2009, when an entrepreneur opened the case by denouncing that De Miguel and another leader of the Basque Nationalist Party, Aitor Telleria, had extorted her to collect a commission for the award of the contract of extension of the Technological Park of Miñano. And from there everything else. The truth is that the judge prosecutes twenty-six people for eleven extraordinarily serious crimes, in a plot of corruption apparently linked to the Basque Nationalist Party or linked to persons directly related to the Basque Nationalist Party. And indeed the crimes are very serious. We are talking about prevarication, failure to prosecute offences, trafficking in influence, money laundering, misappropriation of public revenues, fraud against public administrations, negotiations and activities prohibited to public officials, falsity in public or commercial documents, against public finances, or price changes in public tenders and public auctions. This, therefore, seems to us to be sufficiently relevant for this Parliament to stand, to stand very clearly, against these supposed practices, beyond what justice finally says. And it is also clearly against certain statements made by senior leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party, who have had no other purpose than to defend their own and to condition the actions of justice. The last thing we know is that the judge of the Court of Instruction No. 4 of Vitoria has dismissed the appeals filed by fifteen of the twenty-six defendants, in order to ratify his decision to follow the procedure. He thus ratified a previous car dated 9 March. The judge points out the objective of the alleged plot: to obtain irregular public contracts and to collect illegal commissions. If the Basque Nationalist Party benefited from this, we cannot say so, but it seems obvious that these people used their outstanding political position to commit these alleged irregularities or illegalities. As to whether the Basque Nationalist Party knew something or not, we cannot say, but it is difficult to think that it did not, when many of these people were clearly linked to the Basque Nationalist Party. But, in any case, what the leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party had to say is that these practices are in any case unacceptable. This is what they should have said, rather than saying what they have been saying over the last few days, both Mr Egibar and Mr Ortuzar. Mr Ortuzar said that the investigation could have an interested political impulse, spoke of ill-treatment to the Basque Nationalist Party, said that not all procedural guarantees have been given, attacked the chief prosecutor of Álava, spoke of manipulation, said that there is an interest in throwing stones at the country's roof, as if the country were the Basque Nationalist Party. And, for his part, Mr. Egibar has spoken of the fact that there is an intentionality for the case to appear on election eves. And to us this seems absolutely regrettable, and on this too this Parliament should be positioned today (for what to expect, today). Regardless of the presumption of innocence, what we need are politicians and institutional representatives who focus on qualifying certain allegedly corrupt behaviours as unacceptable. That is what Mr Egibar should have said, that is what Mr Ortuzar should have said, that Mr Lehendakari should have said: that these behaviours are absolutely unacceptable. This is what should have been said, rather than talking about the presumption of innocence or trying to pressure justice. We can talk about presumption of innocence, of course, but we should also talk about presumption of innocence of justice, rather than attacking judicial proceedings and saying that what is intended is to attack the Basque Nationalist Party. Finally, we are talking, therefore, about a plot, an alleged organized plot of illegal commissions, which affects about twenty people related to the Basque Nationalist Party, and should have been the Basque Nationalist Party itself the most forceful, most belligerent political party against this type of action, and obviously demand that all responsibilities be cleared up. This should have been said, beyond the presumption of innocence. Obviously, the judge and the justice system will talk in the final analysis, but instead of stepping out saying that what is intended is to attack the Basque Nationalist Party, instead of saying this, what should have been said is that these behaviors have to be absolutely banished. And that is what our amendment proposes. I think we are in time to discuss it, why we are going to wait a month or a month and a half, or three months, being able to do so today. I therefore maintain our whole amendment, which seems to me to be clearer, more forceful, more topical, and which goes beyond the motion put forward by the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u4	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Madame Arriguega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u5	Good morning, everyone. Mr. Barrio was a member of an investigation committee like myself. The conclusions of this committee voted in plune, as he said, on the 10th of May 2012, and, of course, with the guarantee of the neutrality of a political majority. A little while later, in a week, Barrio made an interpolation for President López. Then Monsieur Barrio said: "Ve cómo no es precilita la interpelción?" "Es datamen dæ que hay que empezar ya a la incre." Ya, empezar a stop ya." He even introduced the motion after the interpenetration, and I remember telling him suddenly that he was an independentist. It has been a long time since, and, indeed, Mr. Barrio's insistence has been long asleep, until at the 9th of the March when the judge shuts down the input car, almost three years later and in cases, of course, for the day before the town and foru elections. So the mention that the PNV intends with its amendment to delay the presentation of the report over time is surprising to me, Mr Barrio. By the way, in that inquiry that Mr Barrio made to the lehendakari Patxi López this one exposed a series of measures that in his opinion his Government was already taking, and that in his textual words were all "guided by the spirit of laying the groundwork for a more transparent Government, in which there is no room for corruption, friendship or espionage to the political rival". Espionages. Also in the title of today's initiative the word "spying" appears, and yet for some purposes at least three years do not pass in vain. Gorka Maneiro (sic) said: "In the end, it has been possible to establish firmly that a crude system of espionage controlled by a leader of the PNV was created." Juanjo Agirrezabala said: "There are sufficient indications to say that two agents of the Anti-Terrorism Division collaborated with Mr. Telleria to convey information to him." Carmelo Barrio himself said: "Two officials and one politician are responsible for an irregular collaboration for the transmission of information." And Oscar Rodríguez, who is not here today but is from the Socialist Party, said: "Spying to different public people has been part of the investigation, and this is the most serious thing for the democratic system." I believe that the most serious thing for the democratic system is the frivolity that leads some people to put specific people and their families in the public eye, so that they will then be acquitted by a sentence that says that the signs are at all points insufficient, and that the issue was not even police information, but basically gossip, which was, by the way, the thesis that we were defending. There is also another subject of the purchase of the consecrated lands which we have treated a long time at the examination committee. Patxi López's government led him to court and charged him with a possible income over three million dollars. The majority of the legislature had "proclaimed" this patrimony. Well, in June 2013, the charges were permanently filed. And why? Because several witnesses said what we defended on the committee: that what was paid was equivalent to what was paid at the time, and that there was nothing else. And with these two quotations, I have three ends. One, to beg pardon as a member of the legislature, has never been put back in his decision concerning these cases. Two, that the votes made by the members of the legislature are not guaranteed to prove the truth. And three, not the dictation of a committee of the legislature, nor the input car, do the guilty. In any case, as Mr. Barrio was saying in the interpelation that Mr. Erkoa did to him, he's doing a good job, and he's trying to make the proceedings even more strict. Does that mean that these proceedings have never followed the law? No. It is, alas, owing to the impatience of the cases of corruption in Spain during these past years, that all public administration is receiving more and more severe measures. And all of them, I'd say that he's one of the most advanced equivocations I've ever mentioned in the early 2012 interpelation, though he said that President Patxi López had already taken several measures, and his government had not finally introduced the report that he'd asked for again. We know that Revascon was invented a system called Registro de Conctos del Sector Público, and we know they didn't feed it. No small contracts ever showed up and the Ulkul government is doing it. There is no doubt that human action is always perfectable, any procedure is improveable. So much so, that surely there is no perfect procedure, nor is there anything perfect. But it is clear that the Basque Government is making progress on controls, and above all on transparency. In fact, we are certain that there is no reason to prevent the Government from issuing the report that Mr Barrio's initiative calls for; on the contrary, we sense that the level of compliance with what is required will be frankly good when the Government brings the report to the House, which will do so. In fact, we, as a parliamentary group, have asked for this in our amendment, although it is true that the urgency of Mr Barrio's original initiative seems excessive to us. If Mr Barrio agreed three years ago with the then ruling Socialist Party to delay the presentation of that report until the end of 2012, because, three years later, and given that he has not been too hasty about it so far, it would be logical for us to reach the same agreement. But it doesn't look like it's going to be like that. In addition to what I have said, the draft law on public administrations which the Government has submitted in this House goes far beyond the law adopted in Madrid. And then we have the other item that appears in the UPyD amendment, which Mr Gorka Maneiro has dealt with, which is also reflected in an inquiry to the lehendakari that will be carried out tomorrow by the People's Party. Both move on the same subject: in quotes, "unacceptable statements by prominent representatives of the PNV against the proceedings of the justice system", and in the interpellation "Egibar has made statements in order to discredit and pressure the actions of the judiciary", etc. Well, I have to say that I don't believe that anyone, nobody is free from original sin, and of course what I don't believe in is hypocrisy as the basis of political discourse. Moreover, I believe that the judiciary is sometimes out of bounds, or it has been out of bounds. And, to give some examples, I believe – and I am speaking personally, of course – that several macrosummaries against the left abertzale have argued in spiral, or I believe that the judgments and orders corresponding to the Bateragune case are not welcome. And I think saying "give him a checkmate" might not like it, but it's not a crime, for example. And I have to say that, as Egibar said, I know that in the indictment there are paragraphs and paragraphs of copying of the opinion of the commission of inquiry. Of course, Justices for Democracy has come out saying that nothing happens, that's because the members of the committee were experts in law. And there were only two law graduates in that commission of inquiry, one myself, and I certify that as an expert nothing, and another Mr. Barrio. And, Jo, I would ask you: Are you so expert as to guess three years earlier, literally, with stitches and commas, whole paragraphs of the imputation order? Because with that, more than expert, I would call him a fortune teller. That is true, when the work of the commission of inquiry was carried out both Nerea Antia and I several times denounced the "fiction" – this also in quotes – that the chairman of the commission, Mr Agirrezala, had to visit and depart in court with the prosecutor and with the judge. I don't know if this has anything to do with what we're dealing with. And that a spokesman who judges for democracy comes out saying that a copy-paste is "coincidence of morphological characteristics"... Well, man, I'm gonna add this phrase to my personal collection of very fun euphemisms. And it is also true that, as Segalés, the spokesman of Judges for Democracy, said, "the actions of judges are always reviewable by the judiciary itself." Right, just over the years and we're getting old. There is a sentence from Mr Maneiro – after which I will continue in my second speech – which I would like to comment on, and he said: "Irrespective of the presumption of innocence". I believe that regardless of the presumption of innocence one cannot speak, that this demonstrates a low democratic quality, that the different courts will indeed be issuing judgments, pre-investigating, taking into account or not the remedies presented by the accused, and that there will eventually be final judgments. I'm convinced, and I trust that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u6	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u7	... Both Mr Semper and the others will find many acquittals also in this case. But, in any case, all basic rights must always be defended, and of course that of the presumption of innocence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing in the district of teams that don't run, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u9	Well, good morning. I was just thinking about focusing on my speech, but I'm still looking at pictures after hearing some things from the PNV representative. I can perhaps get to understand that I am making this kind of strange journey on a number of cases that have absolutely nothing to do with this; what is already much harder for me to understand, and it seems to me that it does not correspond to the democratic culture of a serious party, is that it is dedicated here also to making accusations about the impartiality or not of justice, right? I hope you do not have to retract what you have said here, but it seems to me that within the democratic culture you are, of course, sharing or not judicial sentences, but you are also not applauding them only when you are doing well, which is what you are doing, and criticizing the action of justice when it seems to you that it can harm your party. I believe that this democratic culture, after many years of democracy, seems not yet to be based on certain political representatives. In any case, on what we are dealing with today, I am going to start by saying that we are going to support the motion put forward, even if it is only because it calls for something tremendously elementary and basic: that a parliamentary mandate be fulfilled, no more or less, and that account be taken of this compliance, something which seems to be most elementary in the democratic and parliamentary logic. And what bothers me is that that is something that this government has not just gotten used to, as we have made clear at the last appearance of the Secretary of Relations with Parliament. By the way, Lehendakari himself had already warned us about questions from our group a month and a half ago. He already told us that he did not disobey parliamentary mandates, but that he did not take them as such, but as guidelines. I mean, I'd do it or I wouldn't do it at all. That is also the case in this case. Because we share the explanations given by Councillor Erkoreka in the answer to the question that gave rise to this motion, we also believe that we must respect the times of justice and that we must guarantee all the rights of the persons involved, of course, but in this case there is a judicial aspect whose scope will determine the judges, and there are contrasting facts, such as the public money granted to companies that cannot prove to date that they have performed the services paid. That is why it seems to us to be a book to respond to the recommendation to recover public money that does not fulfil its purposes, regardless of judicial responsibility. As it seems in the book that, if controls failed, the mechanisms that prevent such events will be improved. And that is where we disagree with what the Councilman said a month and a half ago, assuming transparency measures, as Mrs Arrizabalaga has done. And we radically disagree, because, as this same Parliament at socialist level has just reproached the Executive, no steps have been taken in this legislature, but steps have been taken in precisely the control of minor contracts, as this Parliament believed, the ones most prone to irregularities such as those found. And it seems that there is a majority in this Parliament which does not see a sufficient commitment to transparency in the law on public administration, which was a test of cotton to test the true will and which we will have the opportunity to talk about next week. The last parliamentary term did indeed carry out intense and rigorous work on the case before us, and came to conclusions that were supported by the vast majority of Members of this House and also by those who now, in this parliamentary term, we sit on these seats. And that, among other things, is our role: to ensure the proper functioning of the institutions, the efficiency of the management of public money and the improvement of transparency policies. And a government must listen to the majority and comply with what it agrees, in accordance with the rules in force. To ask for something as basic, as elementary as the fulfilment of what this Parliament determines should not even be discussed by any political group. In this case, the recommendation is made by a commission of inquiry. And this is already being the norm in this legislature, because the Government has constituted in its own rule of operation, and in the version of the lehendakari, to hear what is mandated here but not to listen, and of course to comply only with what is of interest to it. And that is why we are not going to take on judicial responsibilities, because that is up to the courts, and we are only going into what is, Mrs Arrizabalaga, pure parliamentaryism, something as simple as what is proposed here: to fulfil parliamentary mandates and to be accountable for them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u10	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u11	Good morning, everyone. It ran on 7 March 2010 when Ertzaintza agents detained at their homes a number of persons linked to the PNV lavés, all after a complaint about bites made in public contracts; bites practiced through a number of companies screened the detained persons. Over time, twenty-six people have been charged in the case of De Miguel, the most important corruption case in Araba's history. In those crazy years of the end of the Belle Epoque before the current crisis the Basque Nationalist Party has been sprinkled with several cases of corruption, casually – note the irony – with connections between them. Thus, at the same time, Epsilon appeared in the park of Miñano. It does not seem casual that all these cases that occurred in Araba were not known by the party to which all the defendants belonged in the case of De Miguel in the rest of the cases. More so if some were people of the party's own structure. And unless the strategy of the People's Party is repeated in the Bárcenas case, it does not seem logical or sincere that supposed ignorance. Yes, it is true that in some cases there were people within the party structure. In 2011, we had a series of exact behaviors from the EAJ. Then Joseph the same Egibar, the first, took counsel with him. During this parliament, De Miguel himself was protected. He said that Joseba Egibar himself went out to hug De Miguel directly in this Parliament, which he did not do with any other of the defendants. It seems that at least some political support from the party existed. Although, in honor of the truth, we could speak in two ways of seeing the problem: on the one hand the president of the EBB of the time, the current lehendakari Urkullu, who claimed the party's card from the defendants, and on the other hand the position and defense of the pNV lavés and the Egibar itself. A few months later, when the border report appeared, Mr. Egibar's behaviour changed. Then he decided to keep silence. On the same day, Idoia Mendia, as spokesman for the Basque Government, pointed out that there could be a link in the financing of the PNV. I'm not saying it, says the hemerotheque on July 30, 2011. A lot has happened before today. Last 27th of March, for example, the President said a few things about the De Miguel case. Mr Lehendakari said on the one hand that it is not a case of irregular financing, and on the other hand that it has nothing to do with this case with the PNV. Cases of corruption in the PNV should be, in the opinion of the lehendakari, the multiple exceptions that justify the supposed rule of honesty in management. The truth, in keeping with the events that have taken place, is only one: there was a commission of inquiry that left a number of irregularities to be seen, and since the irregularities mentioned, a number of recommendations have been made. They were adopted in Parliament and referred to the Government of the previous legislature. On the other hand, justice followed its slow path, and has accused twenty-six people related to the PNV, including several ex-directors. These accused have been able to commit eleven crimes, including prevarication, coercing, trafficking in influence, money laundering and embezzlement of public revenues. Therefore, reality is stubborn, there are things that cannot be doubted: the other, that justice had continued its slow course, and had engaged 26 persons, who were connected with EAJ, and in some cases by the authority of EAJ. While the lehendakari spoke of respecting the judge's act, other PNV spokespersons did not share his point of view and criticized him. Looks like Miguel's case is related to this party. Today we are presented with two alternatives to vote, one more complete than the other. What is rare to me is to ask the government to comply with the mandates of Parliament itself, which is what it should do. Although, bearing in mind that the report requested is for the end of the current session and it is to know whether or not the recommendations of the commission of inquiry which the PNV itself voted against have been complied with, we simply support the proposal, although we already know the answer to that report. To be honest, what do you think is the level of compliance with the recommendations, and that the point to which the greatest importance was given, which was that the Basque Government should recover the public money invested, has not been made? There are common denominators in all cases that we are familiar with related to the Basque Nationalist Party: the public administration pays money to companies related to people of the PNV; these people are pointed out politically; the PNV defends these people and the honorability of the party itself; it is shown that, although it may be legal, it is a scandal and an illicit exploitation of public money, and in the end the institutions governed by the PNV do not demand the return of that money. Money that, by the way, is lost in business networks and disappears as if by magic art. So asking for the report, even if it is possibly a waste of time, because they are not going to comply with the recommendations, may be an interesting step forward in calling for political responsibilities from the Government party and from the Government itself in the designated departments. So we'll vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u12	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Passing on the answers, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u13	Thank you, President. I am grateful for the vote in favour of those who have announced it, and I would also like to convince Mr Maneiro to do so in favour. That is to say, I agree with you, I agree, I have already said this, but I intend, with the motion I am presenting, to take a political initiative, of course, but also a technical one, to check as quickly as possible the action of the Government and to be able to take parliamentary initiatives in the light of the required report. I would like that, whether it has this phase or this political dimension, or criticism, because it actually arises from where it comes from, but also technical, because I think it is good that we have that report in June, we study it, and we can react, we can verify it, we can see the level of compliance and we can react and we can establish parliamentary initiatives. And at the same time be able to study and analyse and discuss an initiative of the characteristics of which you propose me. It's just that if you say you're not going to introduce it, it does allow me to present your text as a non-legislative proposal, because I'm interested in that debate. I'm interested, I'm interested because you're right, I'm interested in that debate. Because, we have already said, the PNV has not reacted well, the PNV has not reacted democratically to this case. He didn't. That has been seen, we can verify, and that we can discuss, because there we would go into many details. But I would also like you to analyse the technical dimension of this initiative that I propose. I say again, we want to analyse the issue of public sector contracts, in fact, at what level progress has been made in minor contracts, of contract fractionations, of the authorization of the Office of Economic Control to verify the presentation of the works carried out, the performance of technological parks as contractors, the analysis of the companies invited and their competing interests... There are important things here. What progress has been made in relation to transparency, controls and all those issues that we asked for and which this Parliament requested in the recommendations of the committee of inquiry, which were interesting, were also clever. Of course we did, of course we did ask the Government, the Government that was, what progress had been made, but, well, the Government dissolved and logically could not continue to work on those recommendations. And we are doing so right now to the present Government, because it is our duty, Mrs Arrizabalaga. Don't distract attention, Mrs. Arrizabalaga, don't distract attention. I ask you to focus, please, on the initiative that I presented after the inquiry that I held with Mr. Counsellor. What a shame this case is for you! What a shame this case is for you! Of course, I'm not an expert in law. I do have a degree in law, but I certainly don't, so take it for sure. But insistentially I am, and I assure you of course that I reaffirm everything I said in the adoption of the opinion, at every moment of the successive moments of the work of the parliamentary committee of inquiry. Because the truth is, we've seen very clear things, and about those we think and about those we analyze. You tell me I'm insistential... Yes, I am and I am, and indeed I want the Government to work and I want the Government to inform us of what it has done on this issue. And besides, you said, there is no problem in presenting this report. Well, let me introduce you, because you've had three years to work. In other words, I should like to present it as soon as possible, in order to facilitate the work of the Basque Parliament itself. Look, Mrs Arrizabalaga, you react critically and bitterly and distracting attention, when it is you who had to be exemplary at a time like this, when it is you who had to be exemplary. Do not frivolize, do not distract attention: get into the matter. They also had to be exemplary for humility, for the PNV and the case of Michael. Also for recognition of the separation of powers, of first democracy. First of all, this recognition of democracy. And because you lead the government and society needs strong references to crimes, even if you commit it members of the party itself, but you need strong references. Where's the self-criticism in the PNV? That self-criticism that the lehendakari asks of others, where is it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u14	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u15	Yes, thank you, President. Let us see, the amendment put forward by UPyD is clearly better than the motion put forward by the Group of the European People's Party. The People's Group agrees with the amendment tabled by UPyD, and the other groups would also be willing to vote on it, or at least from their speeches I understand that they agree with what is proposed here. Why do we not, therefore, make a summary of your motion with my amendment for a more complete compromise that we can bring forward today, instead of within a month and a half, when you may be presenting the resulting motion for an inquiry that you are going to defend tomorrow precisely on this issue? Man, if we are against duplicity, let us also eliminate parliamentary duplicity! What are we going to double-debate for? Why don't we already discuss what we propose here? This is the issue: why are we going to postpone a debate on statements made by Mr Egibar a week ago, within a month and a half? For what? A parliamentary duplicity that only interests the Basque Nationalist Party. Finally, I say, our amendment is more complete, it talks about the same thing and complements what you propose, and we propose that this Parliament reject the unacceptable statements by leading political and institutional representatives of the PNV against the proceedings of the justice in the case of Miguel, statements made with the sole and undemocratic purpose of pressuring and conditioning such judicial proceedings. Statements made to defend yours (to defend yours) and to discredit justice. It is not necessary to be an expert to understand this, it is clear that this is the case: it is a question of discrediting justice, defending its own and trying to pressure that justice. By the way, statements to which Mrs Arrizabalaga has again joined today, as a great defender of the lost or rather turbulent causes of the Basque Nationalist Party, as bodyguards of the essences of the Basque Nationalist Party, or perhaps, more specifically, of Mr Egibar. Above all, you again insist on absolutely unacceptable statements made by leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party, and you have the face to do so in this House. Absolutely unacceptable. His statements show that we must vote in favour of the amendment tabled by UPyD, or at least try to reach agreement, to a common text. There's nothing wrong with it. They have just attacked justice, they have just pressed justice again to defend their own ultimately, and this is extraordinarily serious. Nor does it seem to me that there is anything more to say here today or to demand that the Government and all the political and institutional representatives maintain, that we maintain a strong speech against the scourge of political corruption, clientelism and friendship. Why are we not going to be able to say this today, that above all we have to maintain a strong discourse against political corruption, amigoism and clientelism? And even in line with what you are proposing, our third point also complements what you are proposing and improves it, because we say that the Government is submitting that report to the House itself; that it is the Government itself who is submitting it to the relevant committee. I therefore believe that this is an amendment that complements and improves the initial motion. Let us see, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, it is not the same to say, for example, "We respect the judicial decisions and we want the facts investigated to be clarified, which, if they are true, deserve all our contempt", which is what a representative of the Basque Nationalist Party or of any political party, a democratic and decent representative should have said, that "The Basque Nationalist Party has been mistreated, scrutinized and criticized for this issue for five years", or that "There is an obvious manipulation and distortion to damage the image of the Basque Nationalist Party", or that "We do not understand the interest of throwing stones against the Basque roof". It's not the same thing as the other. And in both ways one can defend the presumption of innocence, but it is not the same to say that we respect the decision of justice and that such behaviors, if true, are absolutely unacceptable, than to attack justice. It's not the same, and this is understood by a ten-year-old. Mr Lehendakari, tell your parliamentary spokesman. Tell him, how he has to act on this issue. Tell him. Tell him that he has to respect judicial decisions, that he has to say, that he has to focus on that, that he respects judicial decisions, and that such conduct, if it is true, is absolutely unacceptable. Tell her, because if she doesn't, it's that you agree with those intrepid statements by Mr. Egibar and Mr. Ortuzar. Tell him, please. Finally, as I see it, I have no problem voting for the motion of the People's Party, but I say that it seems to me insufficient and we lose a golden opportunity to vote for a better text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u16	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u17	Mr. Pastor said "extremely strange cases that Mrs. Arrizabalaga mentioned." Joe, we're so strange! And that "they have nothing to do with this what we're talking about." Mr Pastor did not read in his day the opinion of the committee of inquiry which voted. Because these "extremely strange" cases you spoke of were the very famous line 1 of investigation, and the somewhat less famous but very laborious, which we have already had appearances on this, the second half of line 4 of the commission of inquiry. In one, acquittal sentence; in the other, there is no case. So strange and that they have nothing to do with, nothing... In addition, the conclusions and recommendations contained in the opinion and which we are talking about today also refer to both assumptions. When the People's Party says, Mr Barrio says that it is insistential, I will tell him that it is, that it is, that it is insistential. Insistencialist like the Guadiana we learned at school when we were, I don't know, eleven or twelve years old, that which appears and disappears. And I'm saying it because it happens on election eves all the time. It's an intermittent insistence. Speaking of the recognition of the separation of powers, we do a recognition of the separation of powers. Here on one occasion I have spoken about the rule of law, that rule of law with which the People's Party is often filled, with an interpretation of my view very restrictive, of course, as regards the guarantee of basic freedoms and rights and other formulations. But I think I still remember a few months ago the spokesman of the government of Mr Rajoy, Soraya Sáenz de Santamaría, or the Minister of the Interior himself, making a mockery of the judges of the National Court who called for protection from the General Council of the Judiciary, etc., for a matter of calculating penalties and applying European directives... Suspense points. What to say to the patriot on the left is that we know what your strategy is a long time ago. You have a great deal of fun about losing power, and you rely on the whole strategy against the Jelt Party. And we have been seeing this for a long time in Gipuzia, and have had some pretty examples, for which you have no difficulty in finding allies of any kind, and going by their own hand. And it is still more surprising to me that the Spanish judicial power which you have so well known has been adopted by you, and that you are inclined to take the papers under your arm, and to appeal to the prosecution and to the courts. It's kind of weird. Mr. Juan Luis Ibarra commented that it seems frivolous to him..., after another type of evaluation of some statements by representatives of our party, that it seems frivolous not to make any reference to the judicial decision, that judicial decision never seen, in his words, in the Spanish justice. Because he's got some graphics. And it also has obvious morphological coincidences, but they are due only to the fact that the parliamentary opinion was drafted by major exegetes of law. Well, I've taken a little example, a little example, because, of course, the imputation car is potol. What is underlined in orange are textual paragraphs, sic, that is, with letters, with dots, with commas, with capitals and with lowercases. Exactly the same as in the opinion. It's a small example, I didn't want to bring any more weight. I have an asterisk, and there's a difference, I have to admit. To be honest, there's a difference. Copy the paragraph, I don't know who copies who. The paragraph is copied, this is the imputation order, but they add a word that wasn't even there. It was not in the opinion adopted by this Parliament. And that word, what is it? The judge puts it, the parliament didn't put it. Well, the word is "presumably." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u19	Well, I insist again, this is something very simple! We have not laid charges against anyone, nor have we made any presumptions of guilt against anyone. We have said one very simple thing: that the parliamentary mandate is fulfilled – it seems to be in the drawer – and that they are held accountable. Now, you've again affected the error. It is a political mistake to bulge what you have done in the first intervention and in the second one! In the second one he said, more or less... more or less, he said, "I don't know who copied who." What were you insinuating here, connivance between certain Members of this Parliament and certain judges to make a judgment? Because that's what you said here, pointing out the text! Look, what you have done here reminds me a lot of what you did a few years ago, remember?, when the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country opened a trial against the lehendakari Ibarretxe then and against the leaders of my party Patxi López and Rodolfo Ares, for the same reasons, with absolutely different behaviors: you raised the tone, put the cry in the sky, called demonstrations before the palaces of paraguas justice in hand, and we, who agreed to a large extent that that trial should never have opened, were absolutely respectful of the actions of justice, regardless of the assessment that we might deserve. And those actions, which were of political pressure and of trying to condition a result, are what you are trying to put here on the table, Mrs Arrizabalaga. See, you guys... I understand that they feel assaulted, that they are hurt and that they want to defend themselves, but please don't do such pitiful shows as the one they staged a few years ago in this country again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u20	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Unite the EH team as representative. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u21	Yeah, I'm going down again just to give you a second chance, so you can understand what my thesis was. At no time have I defended the judge's performance, nor have I gone there. What I have said is something else, which is that the case of Miguel is a case of the Basque Nationalist Party, as are the other cases, which is what you try, over and over again, to do the technique of making a boat. They've copied... It seems that some copy the slogans, others copy the techniques. And what you do is that you are directly politically detached from everything that doesn't smell good from your party. As soon as they get caught, they're no longer reliable people of the party. Until then, they were, and a lot, people directly from the party structure. You hide and hide from what is a way of doing politics, which is yours. When you talk to us about legality, democracy and so on, you have made the laws that have allowed you to amigoism, political clientelism, the existence of screen companies through which, through them, there are people related to your party by whom you get rich... You've created that system, it's yours. It's yours. It belongs to the Basque Nationalist Party. You don't have to tell me if we're afraid of losing power or whatever. We don't have it. The problem is yours. The problem is that if you lose power what is shown is one thing: that the dwarfs soon grow to you. Once they lose the power of the institutions and control over the institutions, the dwarfs immediately grow to them, and the cases of Miguel, the Hiriko cases, the Epsilon cases, and all those cases that show that their way of doing politics, their way of managing the institutions, is not so good, it is not so honest or so good. You make political clientelism, you keep people from your party taking advantage of public money from all citizens, and that is what has become my previous thesis. Not at all have I come to make any mention of the judge's car or what the judge says.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u22	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. After the discussion, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Barrio Baroja's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at table, 71; the votes given, 72; the supporters 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u23	So the motion is accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Gather up [as] a congregation of the congregation of the children of Israel, to keep the tribute of the money of Gipus, and to extend [it.] Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Pindo has the word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u24	Good morning, everyone. We are now able to dispute on the level of the world, and especially in the degree of Europe, where several men, hearing, and men's agents, define a more just policy of taxation: To achieve a more just and redistributor system, to resist the social difference that increases in our societies, we must place a legacy and a capital in the purpose of the tax system. For this purpose it is most useful and useful to the tax of wealth and of great fortune already established in the Gipus. The ultimate aim is to distribute the tax burden more fairly and equitably, and it is essential to shift the tax burden of labour and consumption to the assets, capital and income derived from such assets. Because it is unfair for the working class to contribute more than 80% of the collection, when it possesses less than half of the wealth. Oinarrian bidegabea den banaketa ideologiko horrekin errortik aldatu beharrean gaude, age zerga ha bide zuzen horretik doa. This requires a real tax on wealth, a non-partial tax, and the tax on wealth and big fortunes in Gipuzkoa today is the tool for this purpose. The tax on wealth and big fortunes, in short, affects those with wealth greater than 700,000 euros and 300,000 euros in habitual housing; it is a tax that promotes the productive use of wealth, eliminating at once the evil so-called fiscal shield, and a fundamental question: it is a tax that provides information about people's wealth, a key issue in the fight against tax fraud, since undeclared profits all know that they usually end up in goods, and this tax helps to discover these inconsistencies between what some people say they earn and the wealth that they really treasure. In short, it is a key tax to build a fairer and more progressive tax system. This tax, besides its fundamental end, has three other principal points: to increase and strengthen the progress of the tax system; to promote the productive use of wealth and capital to other speculative use; and to control the changes which may be found in the goods of wealth, that is to say, the central goal. Hence the same system of taxing is strengthened by this tribute. The contributions of the taxators will be more strikingly one with wealth, and not with other circumstances. In fact, many exceptions and limitations on the tax- taxes on the property are enabled to give rise to the aggressive plan which is said in a milder manner, namely, to escape from tax payments, and in some cases to make the same tax-basement directly. The tax of wealth and great fortune is well made. He's increased collecting and won the legality of the tax system. In fact, we call it an indispensable instrument of strengthening the claims of well-being. The choice, then, of taking away this tribute, is to be explained how it will be strengthened by those who seek to remove it. How they will face this unjust division in the system of the taxes, which has taken advantage of great fortunes and corporations, which enables the mass of speculation and tax-violation. We know that attacks against this tax are strong, but these attacks are also very poor. They're a ideological discourse, they defend class interests. Of course, the tax on wealth does not at all please the rich and are arguments which have weak foundations in evidence. The chief argument against this tax is this: If we raise taxes to the rich, they will go to another country less taxable, and consequently the investment and employment will be lost in our own country. Therefore, according to this argument, it is the injury of all the people to increase the taxes upon riches, that is the argument. But this argument has no economic foundation. It is by no means proved that a smaller tax over the inheritance increases the productive investment. And I'd say more: the capital is, in fact, frequently directed to financial conversions, and it leads to the international markets, refusing to work and to develop in the place. So there's so little to be done on this road. And that it is to change places, the discourse of fear is constantly excited, when it is known that it is not so general, nor easy to change the place where it is not to pay for a tax. The data's in there. It's not me, we don't say it, the experts say the data of delocation is swelling. The struggle against this tax, which has been opened by communication, and by certain accidents, is giving rise to vanity. The other is punished by this tax, and we hear these assertions repeated. But we have clearly stated it, and have defended it with firmness and applied it: It is punishable to inflict a punishment, and taxes are not Punishments, but merely the means of making a contribution to the benefit of all men according to their financial capacity. in obedience to those who say these phactic powers blindly, some say, like a mantra: and, of course, it's a tax against corporations and corporations. And the facts again make all this assertion small. On the account of the wealth of 2013, and the tax of great fortunes, which are public, the average efficient rate was 204889. And with a few simple examples it will be evident that this tax is not of any importance. For example, a person with a clean income of 3 million Euro would pay at the most $33, which is 10,000 euros, a person with $3 million. The 5 million is $175, that is 37,500 euros. I say all the goods of pure property, that is to say, they pay less than 1% of their debts. So where is the confessional character in this tax? Nowhere. This tax enables those who have most of it to make a real economic contribution to the system. And that's what we have to do. Look, against the wealth tax and the big fortunes have been said and many lies are said, the data have been twisted to exhaustion, fears have been stirred, and I am sure that today we will hear again many of these, given the amendments tabled and that there have been two groups that have not tabled any amendments. We have heard recently how the candidate of the Nationalist Party for the Gipuzkoa Parliament says that the first step he will take in the event of his election will be the elimination of the tax on wealth and great fortunes. That is to say, its priority is to eliminate a tax which affects 1% of the population and which represents a 47% increase in the collection compared to the property tax of the previous year. It's clear who's the priority. The PSE has not tabled any amendments in this case, so we ask it to maintain its support for the wealth and wealth tax, as it did in Gipuzkoa at the time. In fact, we ask him to make a choice in every country of the Basque Country, which is the progressive and consistent attitude. PSE knows that, and that is why he protected this tax at the very first moment, in the year 2012, exactly December. Now, as it may depend on other interests, it will be arranged with groups of right-points protecting the tax-contrary. What happened to PSE? What's changed? What's changed since 2012? Why again, to the workingman who constitutes the majority of society, a new opportunity to deceive and strike him here today? The PP has repeatedly said this, and it is well known that its commitment is to withdraw this tax, and in the amendment it has put before us it goes further and advocates a general reduction of taxes, following the path marked by a Spanish state that what has really fallen, almost to the point of elimination, is public policies and services, placing the state at a rate of unemployment above 23%, with more than 700,000 families without any income, with 20% of the population below the poverty line, and with 11.7% of the population who, while still working, are still poor. This is certainly not the way for the development of a full welfare State. UPyD is presenting us with an amendment that is almost the same as a motion that we have already discussed in this Parliament and before which all groups have already taken a stand against at that time. Therefore, I do not have much more to add to the amendment tabled by the UPyD Group. So, in conclusion, we demand to protect this tax and open it to Biocira and Arabara. For the well-being-remembered is the choice for the strengthening, the actual choice. It's for a more than fair society. In opposition to the social inequality which increases, the work which can be done from governments is an instrument of strengthening it. It's a bet. After all, and as I said at the beginning, the tool is suitable for getting a fairer and redistributor system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing it to the team that's running the corrections, representing the Basque Potula Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u26	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that you have to recognize Bildu who has the courage to come here and ask that we extend this supertax to the rest of the Basque Country, but I'm just going to tell him a couple of things. It harms one hundred percent of the Gipuzcoans (and one hundred percent is one hundred percent), and benefits no one. And, of course, come and tell us here, as you have told us, that thanks to this tax the state of social welfare is saved, with a collection of 20 million euros... Well, if you consider that the welfare state is saved with this EUR 20 million that has been raised thanks to this fantastic measure, because we are all saved, there is no need to do much more. I could only agree with one thing you said. Yeah, just one. He said that this tax, like all property taxes, serves to know, which is for what was created in his day more than thirty years ago: extraordinary tax that was to know wealth and who were owners. That's what it was for. It did not serve, and was never the purpose of that tax, for collection, because it evidently does not correct inequalities. I will tell you why this tax exists in Gipuzkoa, and this tax exists in Gipuzkoa because here there was a fiscal pact between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, to which we only joined in part, to correct some of the things that were raised and benefited from lower incomes, and to benefit from job creation. And why wasn't this harmonized in Gipuzkoa? Because PNV and PSOE didn't want to. And you know why they didn't? Because, as someone said there, the Gipuzcoans have to know what they voted for. And it is clear that they are going to find out, and that this is a measure, like all tax measures of this kind, whose effects are seen in the medium term. That there's obviously been relocations? Hey, you know that. But don't talk to me about experts, you have the outlaw parliament and the Gipuzkoa estate you handle. You know who's off-site! What they haven't told us is, with those relocations, how much IRPF has stopped entering. And don't talk to me about experts. You have the data, making it foral. Experts say, experts... No, no! This is not a case of experts; this is a case of numbers, of money: how many come, how many such, how much is collected and how much is stopped. I'm going to tell you why it's very bad, and it's also contradictory with what you say. Because it says that this encourages a productive use of wealth. This is the greatest falsehood of all that has been said here today, of everything. He says, "No, because 700,000 euros are exempt." Look, an entrepreneur, a self-employed person who has benefits, as he thinks he can reinvest in the company to create a job, you go and crucify him. Of course, you go, and scratch him. Therefore, this of encouraging the productive use of wealth... You forgive me. That entrepreneur, that small business, if he has profits, the best thing he can do is not reinvest them, because then he is counted in his wealth tax. Yeah, this is it. So it's much better to spend it on trips, for example, because that doesn't count the following year as a wealth tax. Of course, this is the brilliant measure that you have proposed. He says it's not confiscatory. You have removed the fiscal shield, but you do know (in your group I don't know if everyone, but you do know), you know why the fiscal shield was on, and you know why it's confiscatory and why it's not confiscatory. You know the rulings of the Constitutional Court. And we will still find that perhaps someone will take it and resort to it – if it is not already done – and it arrives, and in its moment declares that this is unconstitutional, because it is indeed confiscatory, and then it will also have to be returned. Sure, sure! We'll have to give it back. And what is the purpose? When you do politics with taxation, and we've heard a lot about politics lately, it's fine: that the rich pay, how about, let's do this, the rich pay... I've been saying here for years that I've never seen the rich really pay, and that no measure... Every time someone comes here to raise taxes, we pay more and more the same. You say, "We have to benefit the lowest incomes." Lower the IRPF to the lowest rents! Do like Mariano Rajoy! For example, up to EUR 15,000, we're going to drop three points, to 19%, we're going to benefit the lowest incomes! Why don't you do that? Of course, those who earn up to 15,000 euros, we're going to drop them to 19%. That's to benefit the lower incomes and the workers' incomes, of course, and the wage earners... But raising taxes to others, that does not benefit the lower incomes at all, as you say. Don't make me... You guys plan the real descent of the guys! We are going to do the same... as I put it in my amendment, we are going to do the same thing that has been done in Spain, that those who earn less than 15,000 pay at least like the rest of the Spaniards, less than here, three less points! If you're so interested and really defend them so much, do it! Look, when savings are penalized and investment is penalized, employment is harmed. And this isn't that I tell you, this knows everything... it's that you know it, too. That is why he has made the discourse different from the effects that the tax actually has, when he says the productive use of wealth. The productive use of wealth is done with the opposite. Hey, you self-employed, you little businessman, you reinvest? Listen, look, for him to do it for real and create more jobs, I'm going to lower his tax. That is to encourage the productive use of savings, yes, and profit, and the opposite is to harm it. And this is so clear. But, I repeat, the culprits of this are not you. This continues today in Gipuzkoa because these lords and lords... who, by the way, these lords and lords refused to move him to Álava and Bizkaia. And why is he in Gipuzkoa? To let the Gipuzcoans know what they voted for, as we were told. Okay? What do you want me to tell you? I'm a vizcain. So, that the Gipuzcoans want to harm themselves? Well, what do you want me to say? Free are, they vote, and they pose and they decide what they want to do. I, as a vizcay, evidently refuse; it may even seem to me good that taxpayers with money and possibilities come to Bizkaia and invest in Bizkaia. If I were a pitcher or Castile, or La Rioja, I would approve of his proposal. I would approve it, because what I would try would be for good taxpayers, entrepreneurs and self-employed people to move from Bizkaia or Álava to La Rioja, to Cantabria... But, as a vizcain, I obviously have to vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u27	Thank you, Mr. Dammit. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u28	Yes, thank you, President. We will vote against the initiative put forward by EH Bildu. I believe that this EH Bildu initiative raises three different issues, but they are interrelated issues. I am going to make a general reflection on all of them, I am going to point out the position of UPyD, and I am going to explain briefly what my proposal is, which will obviously be rejected in the same way that it was rejected – I know – a few months ago in this Parliament. But I think that behind what EH Bildu raises, three issues can be seen, as I say, different but all related. I believe that from this initiative put forward by EH Bildu it is concluded that EH Bildu wants this Parliament to somehow decide on the taxation that affects the whole of Basque citizenship. And to me this is fine, I think this should actually be the case, I think this Parliament should decide on the taxation that affects all citizens. Not only do we discuss or advise or urge the general boards of the historic territories to pursue a fiscal or other policy, but I believe that this Parliament should definitely decide the taxation that affects Basque citizens. I think this is raised by EH Bildu, although certainly indirectly. We'd agree with that. I believe that what EH Bildu is also saying is that it would be good, that all Basque citizens should have the same property tax, and that Gipuzkoa's property tax should therefore be the same as Bizkaia's property tax and Álava's property tax. That is to say, I believe that EH Bildu, with this initiative, places in some way the necessary fiscal harmonisation in value. I think that it does not defend the same for broader areas, for the whole of Spain, for example, or I do not know if for the whole of Europe, but I think it is defending fiscal harmonisation, and this also suits us. We believe that tax harmonization is appropriate. And thirdly, what defends EH Bildu more clearly is that the property tax in force in the whole of Euskadi is that which is currently in force in Gipuzkoa. We do not share this, we do not support it and we will not support it. We prefer to highlight the need to harmonise property taxes. And we have certainly not put forward any alternative proposal to this property tax, because it would have been in vain, it would have served no purpose. It would have been rejected by the rest of the groups. And I also say that the competent authorities today are the general boards of the historical territories. Therefore, presenting an alternative property tax, or that UPyD would say what the property tax would have to be implemented in each of the historical territories, seems to me simply a waste of time. It could be done, but it's not what UPyD is going to do today. I will say, by the way, that we are not going to defend tax increases until all the unproductive expenditure in Euskadi is reduced. Following the fiscal reform agreed between the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi, which had positive elements, we are not going to propose further fiscal increases as long as the immense unproductive and superfluous expenditure that continues to exist in Euskadi is not reduced. Certain reforms are still necessary, we think, like improving the progressive nature of personal income tax or that capital income is taxed in the same way as income from work, but we think it is not today's debate either. Finally, that we have tabled an amendment which is very similar to that which we already defended here a few months ago and which was rejected by all the groups. In point 1, consider that Euskadi needs a harmonised tax system, with an equivalent overall tax burden for all Community citizens, and that it meets the criteria of progressiveness, justice and equity. This was already approved at the time. In fact, it was a proposal of the Socialist Group in that monographic debate on taxation. Secondly, what we are proposing is a model for this Parliament to help harmonise the current capital taxes. It was a model that we defended last November and that did not like the rest of the groups. It is certainly a model that can be criticized, but in any case, what we want to highlight is the need to harmonise that property tax, and it is the formula that we propose. There's probably better, but it's the one we're defending at the time. And finally, what we are proposing is that this Parliament should defend the implementation of a single fiscal policy for the whole of Europe, so it calls for and commits itself to promote all the changes and legal reforms that are necessary to achieve this objective, and the fulfilment in Euskadi, Spain and Europe of two principles that we consider absolutely fundamental: fiscal equality, and citizen equality. Much remains to be done to achieve those objectives, but we believe that they remain indispensable objectives. Tax experts point out that if there is a tax that advises to be harmonised in order to avoid relocations, that is the property tax. Basically for one reason: the ease that big fortunes have to change their tax domicile. We all know this, and even the Basque Nationalist Party itself, the Basque Socialist Party and the People's Party pledged to take that step and to harmonize the only tribute that had remained to be harmonized after the tax reform. However, the months have passed, and even some year, and no progress has yet been made. In January 2014, it was said that PNV, PSOE and PP have the harmonisation of property tax on the 2014 agenda. Nothing has been done on the matter. It doesn't matter maybe, or they're into other things. On January 23, 2014, in a media outlet it was titled: "The Basque Nationalist Party moves to harmonize the property tax and close the circle." Nor has anything been done on this issue. In any case, what we want to say is that it seems essential that the property tax be the same in Gipuzkoa, Bizkaia and Álava. That is what we advocate with our amendment. Let us set a model, the creation of a paper, so that in that paper we decide what that tax is, in the same way that we put it a few months ago. He did not like it at the time, I imagine he does not like it today, but it is our way of saying that we must harmonise all taxes, and in particular this tax which is still pending harmonization, such as the property tax. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u29	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing the teams that don't run, the Basque Socialists. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u30	President, ladies and gentlemen. Bildu proposes that we make an assessment of the wealth tax that already works in Gipuzkoa, and that this Parliament make it its own and transfer it to the outlaws of Álava and Bizkaia. I would like to put on the record, to point out the position of the Socialist Party, of what moment this House is in relation to taxation in the Basque Country. After a long time trying to do so, after a lot of hard work, after a lot of insistence, the Socialist Party managed to create a milestone in this House, which was, for the first time in its history since its constitution, to hold an in-depth debate and an in-depth political position on the role of the taxation of this institution in relation to the whole of Basque society. This happened in 2013, at the end of 2013, and after a wide debate, a cross-cutting debate, a very open debate, a debate that ended with a lot of resolutions (almost thirty, or about thirty), where there were also positions of agreement and alliances of different kinds (for this reason it was a very open and very cross-cutting debate), a series of resolutions were agreed. These resolutions went so far as to see this Parliament taking a political position on taxation in the Basque Country, and then transferring it to the person with the competence to do this work of collaboration and harmonization with this Parliament. Well, this gave rise to tax figures, it gave rise to tax rates, it gave rise to coordination policies and evaluation policies, it gave rise to policies to fight tax fraud, to the joint institutional commission for that fight against tax fraud, to coordinate and work more easily on data connection... Finally, it was a debate which had a great deal of weight, a great deal of importance in the area of taxation, and which obviously had to be developed later. I can agree with anyone who thinks so that some of those resolutions have not been sufficiently worked out, that there are some delays in some respects. This is very evident in the fight against tax fraud. We have wanted in our initiatives, which you all know, to speed up the fight against tax fraud, to be more effective, to set targets, to quantify, to measure, that there was a much more poignant political commitment on the part of the institutions. Well, we haven't, because then when we put forward these initiatives we have had some difficulties, but at locks and ravines, too, figures have been made and work has been done to make the fight against tax fraud more effective. In short, I would say that we have made a very ambitious, very political, very country-wide tax reform proposal, very much to see the country as a whole, very much to provoke an equality policy in the whole of Basque society. Well, our pretensions weren't entirely achieved. They advanced a lot, but obviously they had to be submitted to a majority that we don't have and that therefore needs different alliances with other forces. This tax reform is beginning to yield results in many areas. One of them is the ability to collect. We started this legislature with a proposal from the Government that the budgets should be cut in a tremendous way, and we are in a different situation, because there has also been an increase in resources in the parliaments, so that the Basque Government also has them, as a result of that tax reform and also obviously by the evolution of other variables. We are, therefore, at a time of relatively rapidity in order to be able to assess this tax reform. And I don't think it's good to overwhelm that comprehensive tax reform that was made at the time with initiatives every two by three. It is true that there is some difference in taxation; in this case in the case of wealth tax there is a different taxation between the three territories. It is true that one of the resolutions proposed such harmonization, suggested that all this should be reviewed and that what needs to be done, which has not yet been done, because in the corresponding body where the Government and the deputies meet, this has not been done, or has not been done, or has been left for another time. It is true that some things will have to be checked, and one of them will have to be this. But what we can't do is that a major tax reform like the one that was made in 2013, and that still has to bear fruit, is every two by three moving as a result of very concrete initiatives that can have a political interest, I don't discuss it. I believe that the initiative proposed by Bildu is an initiative that has its political interest, that has its interest in a certain definition or model of society, in a way that proposes fiscal progressiveness, but this is not the time to make this approach in a common way, because it would be as much as not having evaluated, not having properly carried out the tax reform that we did, not having sufficiently evaluated it, not having had a calm debate on the new fiscal policies that should be done, and in the midst of all that, that is, in a thing that is not yet completed, introduce elements that may have its interest, but which are certainly not in what was the philosophy of that tax reform, which intended to be quite complete, that of 2013. We are therefore going to reject Bildu's proposal. What we want is to continue to develop, to continue to deepen, to continue to assess what the 2013 tax reform has been, and in this position we are going to maintain. It's not the first time we've done it. It is not the first time that some group has put forward some kind of complete reform in this period and that we have had the same position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u31	Thank you, Mr Price. Madame Gorospe, who represents the eulogy team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Our party, the eubertarian party, will be opposed to this other proposition, as we have a right to dispute our votes. And it will be the contrary, for two months now we discussed another subject here, to answer submission about the production of taxes, and then for the arguments we used, and for those which have been said here: This is not the right time and not the right place to plan it. But you yourself, Mrs. Piñero, in this discussion, was an initiative introduced byUPyD, and then you voted against it. And you used to say: "But to-day he who places himself upon the table is a part of the proposition." And you added it to another section: "We maintain our position and defend the integrated tax reform." So today, this initiative you've introduced or defended here in the name of your team, is also partial, and it would be contrary to defending the integrated reform, Mrs. Pindo. That way, we repeat, is the contrary of our vote. We have in common an integral form of tribute, as has been said in 2013, that which was admitted, namely Biceia, Araba, and Gipus, in the three countries, and the agreement was obtained by a large political consent, and you were excluded from it. In other words, stability was what he was looking for. It requires stability in various ways, and we believe that the work that was then done was really interesting. Mr Price has said "que sus pretenses no funeron satisfechas íngrament." It's not even ours, it's a political game. Even from the Jeltal Party, and from all political sects, we present our attitudes on all subjects, in different matters. At this moment, with the elections of councils and foru-elections, we present our different political parties, which are subject to or other matters of matter or tribute or tribute, and then, seeing the results of elections, we enter into different parties of negotiation, we begin to speak, and at last arrive at the agreements. That's the political game. What we think is that the gathering has difficulty understanding that it is so. And whatever happens in your case, if Collect has an attitude, if the majority is enough, that's going forward. If the meeting has an attitude and another political party has the same attitude, it'll still be out. But if you're gonna move your position, you're not qualified to make a deal. That's why you stay out of that agreement we made in 2013 at that moment, and out of other agreements. We said it was your attitude: o lo mío integration, 100%, or nothing. And that's really a complicated attitude in political matters. At this moment, as has been said, we present, as we have already observed, the formulary of the foru-elects, clearly and distinctly, and present our attitude clearly before the taxation of the wealth of Gipus and of great fortunes. We don't like that tax. We would rather go forward on the way to the harmonic, the tax-carrier of the Araba and Biscay. And we say why we don't like that tax. You mentioned the anti-ideal arguments being used. The contrary and the favourable must, when established, be allowed to give arguments, favourable and contrary, and to say why we defend them. You said they'd say the tax was a settlement. And the point is, it could be a confession. And it may be, because it is not united to the limits of income and wealth. That's what happens. And you have given some facts, but only those of the tax of wealth. You didn't say that there's no limit, and if a person earns 100 and has to pay 50 for his fortune, if he has to pay 60 and 50, 110, it can be a confidence, we say, and that's why we don't like it. You mentioned that it serves to encourage production, but it's not like that. It's cashed into the property of 25% of what's attached to the company fund. And that, Mrs. Pindo, does a lot of damage to small companies. And I don't know if you guys know the Eukadical trade, but you know it. You know in Erci, Eukadin, over 90%, that they are 93%, micromen, which means, on the one hand, that the amount of their operations is below 2 million euros, and that their assets are less than 2 million dollars or 2 million euros. That's reality. And when you said, "It's obvious who Markel Orono defends," he defends them, because you're hurting them for this tax. Little ones, village ones, 93%, that's right. And I'll give you some facts to see that. An example. If the estate is totally $5 million and 1 million in its property and 4 million in the company... For you, Mrs. Pinedo, as I know in our countries the more we know their efforts, the more we know their own money, the more they buy a papiloon, the more they buy an engine, put a company to make a fortune for the people, and to make a profit by themselves, and this is the reality of the fact of the '93%'. And in this case, for instance, he paid 700 euros, which he would have paid for the first 5 million, four million economic activities, and today he pays 12.200 euros. And he'd pay 400 in biz. And I do not agree with you, Mr Damborenea, when you say that this tax does not benefit anyone; that it harms everyone and that it does not benefit anyone. It does, and I'm going to give you an example. Total assets, 25 million; EUR 20 million in idle assets, not linked to any business activity, which therefore generate neither employment nor wealth for the country; EUR 20 million in idle assets, and EUR 5 million in business activity. Earlier in Gipuzkoa they would pay 382,200. Eta badakizu, Pinedo andea, zenbat ordaintzen duten orine? Now in Gipuzkoa they pay 195,925 euros: 187,000 euros less than before they would pay those who are truly rich rich. And putting the burden on the little ones, those who have practically all their assets linked to a business activity that generates wealth for the country and employment. Hori gives the truth. Besides this, we always clearly declare what our position is, but we have plain evidence of the circumstances in the political area. To establish the attitude of different parties in all matters, let us all know, and let the people know what each of us stands for, and tell us plainly. Two, we examined the results, in this case, happily accepted the data of the integrated reform. Introduce between proposals and parties to begin the advance. We're not locked up, Mrs. Pindo. We believe that this form of taxation gives stability, that the results must be improved, and we shall hereafter consider which way it is to go. And we should like to go forward among all of us, as has been said, to look into the future at the path of harmony. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the day of the answers, representative of the EH Collectors. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u34	Good morning again. I'll try to get out of here. Mr Damborenea, that you and I do not agree is the normal thing, because if you and I agree on these issues, then we would be wrong. That harms 100 percent of the Gipuzcoans... It will be one hundred percent of the Gipuzcoans who care about the PP, because one hundred percent of the Gipuzcoans will never harm a tax. And besides, I insist, taxes don't hurt. The taxes are for everyone to make the contribution to the society that belongs to him, and in this case the people who have more will have to make a little more effort than the people on foot, who make other kind of taxes. And it does not harm the 100 percent of the Gipuzcoans because with this increase in collection they have been able to do a lot of work and the Gipuzkoa Diputation has been able to maintain many lines of work, for example in social policies, covering many gaps that are being done from other institutions, in favor of the Gipuzcoans and the Gipuzcoans who really need it. But they probably aren't the ones who care about the People's Party. In relation to whether I know the taxes or not, he threw a flower at me. Well, I'll pick it up. I do know them. And that the purpose is not collection, because it fails to eliminate inequalities. I have said in my first intervention, that its last end is not collection, it is another, but it is that taxes are not individual, they are within a whole, of a group, and this tax has a specific purpose, and one of them is that those who have the most make that extra contribution. It is a collection, but it obviously has other purposes, as I have already explained to you in my first speech. And I'm not gonna explain why, if not, I'm leaving... and we're running out of time. Well, some have told you that this tax exists in Gipuzkoa because the Gipuzcoans have to know what they voted for... well, well, everyone will know why they do politics. We do politics not so that someone assumes the consequences to bad or better; we always do politics for the benefit of the citizenry, and that is the reason for this tax in Gipuzkoa. And in relation to relocations, that if there is data, obviously there is data, and I have no problem with telling you the data, but it is that we do not make a mountain of a grain of sand, Mr Damborenea. You know the data as well as I do, because the Gipuzkoa Diputation took care of making them public, and it was 49 people who left, yes, and went in 61. And you tell me, "No, they've been relocated for tax." Yes, but of those 49, half went to Madrid, which, oh surprise!, has no property tax. What do you want to tell me?, that we have to remove property taxes?, that we have to become a tax haven, so, sui generis, as is Madrid? Is that what you want? Well, say it! If I know what you want! I'm sure that's what you want, because Madrid is a great example for your party, but for me I assure you not. I'm sure you don't. And obviously there's always going to be. But what is it, that because others don't do we have to stop doing it? For, by that rule of three, in a global world where tax havens exist, we would never do anything about tax issues, nothing, zero, because there will always be a tax haven where the rich will be able to go, because there are political and economic powers and lobbies that take care that tax havens among all of us can't make them disappear, or at least control them. And well, that it is false that the productive use of wealth is encouraged... He has said so many statements without a single support, nothing, absolutely nothing... Say the same thing again, the same and the same. Productive investment is encouraged, it is promoted in a very simple way: making productive investment more profitable than non-productive investment. So simple, and that's how it is. UPyD is already told. The Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party have both come down to talk about their fiscal reform, but very little about the proposal that EH Bildu has put here today on the table, which is a debate that is, which is a debate that needs to be made, which is a debate that needs to be filled with teeth. And you didn't want to inflate his tooth, you didn't want to. They have shielded themselves in their great tax reform, in what way, in what should be done, in what should not be done... And I insist on the Socialist Party. You supported this tax, and it is that a few months ago, in September, a representative of the Socialist Party in this House in a committee said: "It is a fact clearly noted by tax policy experts, and it is that the tax model right now in Gipuzkoa is the most efficient and equitable of the three territories of the Basque Autonomous Community. It is an out-of-the-box rule that benefits entrepreneurs who use their business assets to promote economic activity and not to speculate with it." I do not have much more to say; this has been said by a representative of the Socialist Party in this House a few months ago. Go back to the principles, and leave the objectives, gentlemen of the Socialist Party. And it's like PNV. In the first part, reform up and reform down, que no sabemos political game. That wasn't a discussion today. And we don't have capacity for agreements. Yes, we do, we know, we get a lot of settlements, but that's not the discussion today, it's the tax today. That he doesn't like the tax, because... Ah, on top of that, you tell me again about harmonisation, when at the time you spoke to Mr Maneiro about harmonisation, whether or not it existed, and you said that there was harmonisation, so, well, you will know what argument you want to bring us. That this tax is confiscatory, that it can become confiscatory...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u35	Finish up, Mrs. Pindo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u36	I'll make it short. Regarding the fiscal shield, look, this is very easy: two people who have the same value of wealth, 6 million euros, if one of them is property and rents them will pay in the IRPF 39,500 euros, and therefore in the property tax will pay 13,340, but another person who has the same, 6 million euros, on floors that does not move them, does not pay IRPF and does not pay property. That's the way it is, and it's the result...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u37	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u38	Bakarrik bukatzeko. Here you did not want the debate, you did not want to talk about the tax, and again you have shielded yourselves in a tax reform that you know was short and very short.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u40	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Maneiro, the People's Party did pose at the Gipuzkoa Junta, with little success, as it was evidently shown, and that is why we have this debate here. If not, we wouldn't have it, it would be otherwise. And with little success because it is evident that it remains in force in Gipuzkoa despite the fact that the Socialist Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and the People's Party had a hyperabsolute majority. And he voted against those who voted against him. Therefore, Mr Prieto, do not say that it has not been harmonised in the OCT. The disharmonization there is that which you initially produced in Gipuzkoa with your vote, and then thanks to the pact you made with the Basque Nationalist Party so that it would not be touched, and that it would not be touched for what I have told you before. Listen, now the PNV is saying that its great candidate complains about this tax in Gipuzkoa... because I no longer understand anything, because, of course, it is not a deputy general because he preferred Bildu to be the one to lead the Gipuzkoa Deputy. Sure! It is that when you negotiated tax reform with those gentlemen this was expressly left out of that pact and reform. This is out. Therefore, do not come now saying that the guilty are these gentlemen. Well, these gentlemen wanted that, but they've been able to do it thanks to you for four years. Now don't come here saying you're going to save me from what you've allowed to do. This is what's a little weird. Today, in 2015, it's a little weird. Or, well, it doesn't look weird. As you have told us, there are now out-of-court elections and we do not want this tax. Now that the out-of-court elections are here. And in the meantime, what was going on? Sure! Bildu's representative tells us that taxes don't hurt. Man, in this particular case, to employment and to the promotion of employment. You tell me, "The purpose is information." For that reason, investments do not need to be accounted for! Sure! If the purpose of this tax was the information, the same information is held in Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. The purpose of this was not information, and you know it. It was fiscal demagogy, which looks great, but then there are prejudices. But the damage is being seen, of course. You tell me "Of course, most have gone to Madrid, that there is no property tax", and then Madrid turns out to be a tax haven. Look, we were recently being criticized for Mariano Rajoy's tax reform of the PP because we had the highest taxes in Europe, and now it turns out to be a tax haven. Oh, sure. But it's just that you, when I asked you about the data, you told me about experts. Do you have the data? Does the Gipuzkoa Diputation get more real with those taxpayers today, or did it raise more before, with those taxpayers? You'll tell me, "Now let's raise more." Yes, of course, because small businesses and self-employed people have been shoed here and paid this tax, but those who really had money and left... How much did the Gipuzkoa Diputation enter the IRPF and its assets and how much does it enter now, with those new ones that you say? I don't know, this thing about someone with 6 million euros, I don't care if it's on floors or what, don't declare property tax... Of course he pays, in all three provinces! I don't know where that came from that if you have 6 million euros in flats you don't pay property tax. Pay in all three provinces, at least as far as I know, unless in Gipuzkoa they have some rules of these that we don't know and now they get to do some weird things with the congress, but, come on, I'd be surprised if they were really into that. Now, if they really care about all the lower incomes, wage earners, etc., etc., I repeat, if they really care about those, let's lower the type of IRPF to those who earn less than 15,000 euros; let's put it as in the rest of Spain, to 19%! Because everyone here gets their mouths filled talking about the least-winners and the wage earners, but why do they always refuse to lower their taxes? You know why? You know why? And it doesn't matter if it's Bildu, or the PNV, or the PSOE of the Finance Congressman. Do you know why this is happening? Because in the end in the zero tranche at 40,000 euros, or 35,000, half of the entire IRPF is collected, because it turns out that there are not so many rich. And then no Member of the House of Finance wants to reduce those who earn less, because in the end it's where it really comes from. Now, if you really care so much about the workers, the wage earners, bring those down the IRPF, as Mariano Rajoy has done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u41	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Misto-UPyD shouldn't talk. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u42	Yes, Madam President, just to clarify two things. The first, the account of the facts, so that no misconceptions are made. In 2012, a tax reform was carried out in Gipuzkoa. As a result of this tax reform in Gipuzkoa, among others, this wealth tax was approved, where the Socialist Party actually agreed. This is a tax reform that was carried out in Gipuzkoa when it was impossible to carry it at a general level in the Basque Country as we had been insisting, because we did not get a majority in this Parliament. It was many times that the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party rejected our proposals, our initiatives to make a global tax reform in the Basque Country. And we had to wait, insisting, not passively, but actively, as the Socialists did, we had to wait for political circumstances of necessity, for other correlations of forces, so that, together with other political, budgetary, employment and institutional agreements, there would also be a tax agreement. And this is what brought the tax debate here. The Socialist Party had been coming for a long time, since before 2012, long before... In our legislature we tried, we proposed it many times when it was lehendakari Patxi López, it was tried many times, and there was no form, those majorities were not given. And while this was happening in politics, conditions were created in Gipuzkoa to make a tax reform and to include the wealth tax. Well, when later, in 2013, a political agreement is reached, and that political agreement has an embryo with the Basque Nationalist Party and then it opens, because it is a cross-cutting agreement, and it has the input and support of many, and in a different way, well, well, a reform is being made, which is the one that we can agree on; that it is not the one that the Socialist Party wants, which was certainly not the one that the Basque Nationalist Party wanted, nor the one that the People's Party wanted, nor the one that Bildu wanted, that you, too, we, these gentlemen, all of us, were voting cross-cuttingly different resolutions because we were in agreement with the resolutions. We were not against a treatment similar to that of Gipuzkoa in the wealth tax, but there was no majority in this House that could allow it. And since there was no majority in this House that could afford it, that was one of the many issues that had to be parked among the proposals that we were each making. Therefore, at the moment we have a tax proposal, which is that of 2013, which, as I said earlier, still needs to be implemented, which needs to be developed much more, which needs to be evaluated, and which then needs to be looked at if some changes need to be made. Mrs Pinedo, Mrs Corcuera, in any case, when she made those statements – which you did not mention to her but read here – when Mrs Corcuera makes those statements, in any case, the comment that I think it was that you had made is that of congratulating Mrs Corcuera. Because what Mrs Corcuera did was when Councilwoman Tapia made a statement that Gipuzkoa's entrepreneurs were leaving because the tax reform that had been done, and among other things this, meant an unbearable burden for those entrepreneurs, when she made an attack on this Gipuzkoa tax system, and when she also said that this harmed the Gipuzkoan entrepreneurs, and Mrs Corcuera, out of loyalty to the Socialist Party's own policy everywhere and also in Gipuzkoa, what she did was to come out in defense of that tax reform. That, by the way, as it was in the Committee on Economic Development, perhaps it would have been up to her to make that defence not to Mrs Corcuera, but to some Bildu representative in the committee. Therefore, you could have quoted yourself if you did, you didn't need to quote anyone else. But, well, in any case, as what abounds does not harm, it is often said, for, look, there was also that favorable statement by Mrs Corcuera. Finally, Mr Damborenea, we did not make an agreement to disharmonize absolutely nothing, but quite the contrary: we made an agreement to harmonize. It harmonizes as far as sums are concerned in order to obtain absolute majority and to ensure that the resolutions are adopted here. And, obviously, this wealth tax could not have been dealt with in more depth, as we would have liked, because there was no such amount and support. In any case, for us taxes are not a burden, for us taxes are not a tax on citizens, but taxes are a way of doing politics to provide services, social policies, investments, opportunities for citizens, and therefore for public intervention. I understand that in your policy, which is not in support of public intervention, because it is not in support of equality policies, you throw at everything, but, in the end, everyone has their political philosophy. Ours is clear, it is clear: we are in favour of increasing public participation so that there are policies of greater redistribution and greater equality, and from there we have always been defending our political positions. We have brought forward those for which we have had a sum. For which we have not had a sum they are still there, and of course we will continue to defend them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u43	Thank you, Mr Price. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u44	Thank you again, Mr. President. I'll start meeting. Mrs. Pindo, I'm flattered that when you tell me we didn't go into the discussion of the matter. We've come in, we've given the argument why we don't like it. We have given examples, to whom concrete examples and numbers are injured, to whom they are benefited, and to whom they are benefited. We have spoken of the reality we have at present in the tax camp, and we have an integral reform which gives us stability. We've talked about everything. I don't know what you want me to say is that we come to the point. Examples, examples, and the present state. And, by the way, because we think it's important, I have mentioned how political game moves, and I have said that we fix our positions, then we negotiate for the sake of the majority that is necessary, and that in the end there is an agreement. Mr. Damborenea, it sounds to you about the hairs on the cataract, doesn't it? We all have to leave hairs on the gurney without fear of being bald. Do you remember? Then do not say that the Basque Nationalist Party changes its position depending on whether it is in elections or not. We have a clear position and always in relation to this tax. Not now because we're in elections. Always. But we have to negotiate, we have to agree and we have to move forward. And that's what characterizes us: waist. Of course, Mr. Damborenea! And you come to me to say that we do not make it clear what our position is in relation to this tax. We say this, and of course, very clearly, but we also say that this country needs stability, that this country needs agreements, and that for that we are willing, Mr Damborenea, to leave hairs in the catera without fear of being bald and bald, I say again. By the way, as for lowering taxes, look, what I would tell you is that you go to Madrid and you insist on Madrid and tell them to keep going down, that they still have room; that they keep going down, that they still have room. Let us take this issue more seriously and more rigorously, and with less populism. Lower, for example, the tax and the treatment of redundancy payments. You talk about the most disadvantaged people. For example, rent per habitual dwelling is also deductible. That's helping people with less resources. And you have no deduction for this concept, for putting some examples that have occurred to me now. I forgot to tell you at the first round that we'll vote against the Potion Party and theUPyD full-line corrections. And I'll have to rectify Mr. President, Mrs. Pindo, in a previous discussion that I said that he was harmonized, that he was harmonized here, that he was harmonized, and that now I say that he was on the way to this harmony, that he was on the road to the Social Party, collect, the Social Party, the Poptular Party, theUPyD, the Euz Party Jults, that we must all talk. But what you did then is to confound two different concepts, and I think it's important to explain what we said. And here, Mr. Maniro, I answer why we won't vote for you. We don't think there's only one policy of taxing in Europe. Harmonized, but not the only one. And we said, Pindo: "The harmonic system doesn't mean the system should be the same. On the other hand, accepting certain general principles, it makes it possible that there should be more than one system of taxes within the same community, equally among different States in Europe." And we profess what all the other states profess, because we have a proper capacity in the tribute: some particular things, to agree to some general principles, but not to have a single system of taxes. And we said, Mrs. Pindo, about the pressure on the prosecuting attorney, that was the first thing you were talking about: "Presion fiscal equivalente or equivalent tax price, what is that? "I don't know. And after we had explained it, we said: "We may therefore say that the different rules of taxing must not necessarily be said to be equivalent to the tax-conditions of the historical countries." "Podemus conclucir que el merocho de que exgaciousi tributias ungulantias nostica forzosamente que las pressurenes fiscalos de tereratoros históricos non equivalentes." That was our speech at this hour, and don't confuse things. We're going to the point, not mix things up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of the EHG as a group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; the votes given, 71; the opposites, 19; 52; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u46	Not accepted. Then we'll vote for the full correction of the Basque Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 70; votes given, 71; in favour of the enemy, 62; white, 0; abscesssion, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u47	Not accepted. And next we vote for the full correction of the Misto-UPyD team. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 70; votes given, 71; in favour 1, 70; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u48	This correction is not therefore accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "The Moment, introduced by Gorka Maniero Labayen Mistto-UPyD, concerning the measures against the promoters of the city. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u49	Yes, thank you very much. Good morning again. Motion on Hiriko. It is not my intention to talk about what has already been discussed at the time, it is not to talk about the committee of inquiry either, it is not to look too far back, but above all to express what we believe the Basque Government should do on the basis of the data we already know. Hence the motion we tabled at the time. What we were proposing was that this Parliament should urge the Government to act as a particular accusation in the judicial case opened in the Court of Instruction No. 3 of Vitoria against several of the promoters of the failed Hiriko car project. It also urges the Government to take all necessary measures to recover all the aid and subsidies granted to the companies promoting the Hiriko project, where crimes of embezzlement, documentary falsity, fraud against the administration, fraud of public subsidies, misappropriation and money laundering could have been committed. This, the recovery of aid, was one of the recommendations already made by the Committee of Inquiry into Epsilon and Hiriko. It has already been approved, therefore, although it seems obvious that this should be remembered and re-examined today. Four amendments have been tabled to this motion, and if we leave aside that of the Basque Nationalist Party, they all say similar things. That's why we've been able to reach a transactional. Although only signed by the Socialist Party and the UPyD Party, I think it could finally be supported by the rest of the opposition groups. In any case, we'll see what each of them says. We have finally signed a transaction, I say, with the Socialist Group to urge the Government to act as an injured party in the lawsuit filed by the Provincial Prosecutor's Office of Álava before the Court of Instruction No. 3 of Vitoria against several of the promoters of the failed Hiriko car project. We propose to urge the Government to comply with the recommendations contained in the opinion adopted on 2 October 2014 and to take all necessary measures to recover the public funds granted by that Government for which a judgement determines that they have been misused. And finally we propose to urge the Government to meet with the Hiriko project workers who have not received the money that the promoters owe them, and to defend the rights of the workers in the development of the case opened in the courts. I sincerely believe that, given the compromise we have reached, all the groups in the House could sign or at least vote in favour of this compromise, including the Basque Nationalist group itself. I say that there is the investigation committee of Epsilon and Hiriko promoted at the time by UPyD, there are the conclusions and recommendations that were made, and there are also – and this is the most serious – the 65 million public money wasted on Epsilon and Hiriko. In relation to Hiriko, the strong report of the Álava Prosecutor's Office reveals that the accused received EUR 17.8 million (14.7 million from the Government of Spain and 2.7 million from the Basque Government), and that they devised a plan – it is said literally – to profit from public subsidies on the pretext of a project of an electric vehicle that was to be financed in its entirety from public funds. It notes that a network of companies was created to receive aid, with twenty-two contracts or allegedly fictitious invoices amounting to almost EUR 6.5 million. As examples, one of the entrepreneurs used the subsidy obtained to rent a ship in Vitoria that was already his own and obtain 98,220 euros, and fixed the price of the square meter to double the valuation, and self-contracted the reform of the premises for 310,960 euros. Or the purchase of a prototype casually from Epsilon Euskadi for two million euros, although this vehicle had no application for Hiriko. Or the contract of 1.4 million plus VAT formalized with the company Denokinn for jobs that were not carried out and that had to be contracted then with other companies, to which it was paid 850.000 euros. Technicians from the Basque Government have recognised before Parliament that it is very unusual for any R & D project to achieve more than 50% of public funding. After months of investigation, the prosecution finally accuses six Hiriko electric car promoters of very serious crimes. Hiriko received 2.7 million euros from the Basque Government during 2010, 2011 and 2012. Hiriko also received nearly EUR 15 million from the Government of Spain, following a series of negotiations between Mr Rodríguez Zapatero and the Basque Nationalist Party. Judge No. 3 of Vitoria admits to the lawsuit filed by the Álava Prosecutor's Office against six entrepreneurs and the Afypaida association, considering that they devised a plan to appropriate public funds for their own benefit. The crimes are extremely serious; we are again talking about misappropriation of public funds, document fraud, fraud in the administration, fraud in public subsidies, misappropriation and money laundering. The prosecutor classifies Hiriko as a corporate plot that squandered public money. Again in this case, the accused are persons linked to the Basque Nationalist Party. The prosecutor believes that after Hiriko a network was hidden to steal public funds, and claims that six entrepreneurs erected a corporate network that allowed them to make hypothetical profits and avoid any possible losses. The prosecutor accuses Hiriko's promoters of creating it just for profit. The judge ends up admitting to the prosecution's complaint and accuses them, as she said before, of very serious crimes. That is why our question, that is why our motion, and finally the compromise that we have signed with the Socialist Group. Why do we propose to urge the Government to act as an injured person in the complaint made by the Prosecutor's Office? By image and political decency, and because the Government of Spain has already announced that it will be characterized as a particular accusation. The truth is that the Basque Government has been repeating that it sees no objective and justified reason for characterizing itself, although, it says, it can do so a posteriori in the course of the investigation. We don't agree. We believe that the reasonable and prudent thing is to act as an injured person already, and to participate in the whole process of instruction as one more part, and to give that image that you really want to know the truth and that the Government and the citizenry as a whole have been harmed by all these actions. We believe that it is the most reasonable thing and what political decency requires. Let it be clear and clear to the Government that it cares about this matter, and that it feels harmed. I think there's plenty of data left to ask. And why do we ask what we ask for in the second point? Because it has already been asked through the committee's opinion to do everything necessary to take the necessary measures to recover the public funds granted by that government. Adding in this case "on which a judgment determines that an unauthorized use of the same has been made". I understand that at this point, and since the transactional is drafted in that way, the Basque Nationalist group should have no problem voting in favour at least of that point. We also include in the transactional the requirement for the Government to comply with the recommendations contained in the opinion of the commission of inquiry, all of them. And we also include the reference to workers, prominent victims of what we consider a scam and which we obviously could not forget. That is therefore the compromise we have signed with the Socialist Group. I call on all groups without exception to vote in favour of it. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u50	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Reyes, the Basque Socialist, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. It is true that this is the cause of a complaint by the prosecutor today; therefore, I am not going to reproduce the whole history of the Hiriko affair either, but I do want to focus or recall the position of the Socialist Party, which is the position of this Parliament, and to place us on the stage that has advanced with that complaint. In this matter of Hiriko there are two distinct and distinct parts. One corresponds to the characteristics of subsidies from public administrations, and another is the use made by Hiriko's promoters of these funds. Starting with this one, in this Parliament we have already concluded that the promoters of this project have misused public funds for several reasons, some very striking, such as that some gentlemen with no previous experience in automotive (a quarry entrepreneur, a hotelmaker, a jeweler, a publicist and a former councillor) saw a business opportunity that had been overlooked by companies such as Toyota, Volkswagen or General Motors. But, yes, without putting a euro out of your pocket, all with public money, with citizens' money. All this indicates the lack of entrepreneurial seriousness of the proposal, because it was a project based exclusively on the use of subsidies. And if we add to that that they tried to use some of those funds for their own benefit, not for the end to which they were intended, we have a project more related to the picarec than to the accredited seriousness of the Basque entrepreneurs. And this matter, the criminal, is what the prosecutor will try to prove in his complaint against several of the promoters of the Hiriko project, accusing them – and I quote textually – of "distracting public funds for their own benefit". And this is the issue to be highlighted in the state of the matter today. In other words, private individuals, pseudo-entrepreneurs of the automotive sector, who, according to the prosecutor, tried to distract public funds for their own benefit, seeking more support from the various administrations than success by business success. All you have to do is read the complaint to understand all this. In the complaint, the prosecutor refers to the embezzlement of public revenues, documentary falsehood, fraud against the administration, fraud of public subsidies, misappropriation and money laundering. Anyway. That is why the Basque Government cannot look elsewhere, but in any case it is the prosecutor who has the means to analyse and verify all this, such as the flow of money in operations between the companies that constituted that consortium. It will therefore be necessary to await the judgement of that judicial process in order to know the facts proved with regard to the actions of Hiriko's promoters, and then, according to the judgement, the Government will have to act energetically if necessary. We'd demand it if we did. As for the other part, that of the Administration, Hiriko's subsidies have been treated like the rest, like those that go to any company. They have been made in normal calls, such as Etorgai, to which many companies are presented every year. They have also been done on a competitive basis and for specific R & D projects, not for direct or indiscriminate financing of a business project. In addition, the total of these grants from the Basque Government has not been high, EUR 2.65 million spread over three years, and various Hiriko consortium companies have been given for specific technological development projects. And as to how the whole process of these subsidies took place, it is of interest. The opinion states that the principle of prudence and rigour in the investment of public money led the Basque Government to use the criterion of annuality approval, because the companies of the consortium changed frequently and this fact did not give sufficient certainty. For this reason, in the 2010 Etorgai call, of the two million requested, only €817,000 were subsidized, and in the 2011 call (again for an annuality, not for three years as corresponded to the call) €906,000 were given. Finally, in 2012, 927,000, always lower than requested and per year. A total of EUR 2.65 million, in addition to other minor aid. In short, there was follow-up and great caution on the part of the Basque Government. On the contrary, what has happened is a bad performance by people who have contributed to the sinking of the Hiriko project since private activity. The case is that the control of the Basque Government's subsidies has been exhaustive, I repeat, and that the Basque Court of Public Accounts must issue a report before the summer, which will finally resolve the control of these funds. As far as the funds of the Government of Spain are concerned, it is examined by the Court of Auditors of the Kingdom. That is why the transaction we have reached with UPyD seems good to us. Our participation in this initiative has made it possible to quantify aspects such as the characterization of the Basque Government being harmed. We're not assuming any results. We also include, or think very reasonable to us, that the Basque Government should do everything necessary, and remember, to comply with the conclusions of the committee and to recover the funds, if that were the case if the Basque Government's subsidies were to be affected by the sentence. And finally, to include a perspective introduced by another group, the perspective of workers in judicial proceedings. I believe that everything is remembered, and that there is a guarantee in this procedure also so as not to believe right now that we are taking a substantial step. That will happen when there is a court ruling. And it is that the best guarantee of the defence of public interests is that it is the prosecutor, the public defender, who has filed the criminal case for this matter. Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u52	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Soon, as I share, we share the arguments put forward here by Mr Maneiro and Mr Reyes in relation to the question that concerns us at this time, as I share the arguments of the Hiriko workers, who on the other day denounced the disappearance of material that cost EUR 3 million; as I (we continue) very concerned and attentively follow the proceedings carried out by the prosecutor and the judge in relation to this matter (claim and admission to court by investigating judge number 3 of the Court of Vitoria-Gasteiz); as I understand very useful the decision of the Court of Auditors of the State, to carry out the monitoring of Afypaida and Denokinn in relation to the subsidies granted in relation to the Hiriko project, and as I also share and share the interest of the Government of Spain and its decision to personate in relation to the aid that was granted. Naturally, in the light of these issues and in the light of what has been dealt with and discussed by this Parliament itself, we also share, as it cannot be otherwise, the points of the compromise amendment tabled. What I don't understand is the attitude of the Basque Government, another matter that seems to want to get rid of. Well, that can't be. The Basque Government of the Basque Nationalist Party gave public money for this initiative, for Hiriko, and the Basque Nationalist Party negotiated public money from the ministry for the financing of this failed project in the State General Budgets, that 17 million euros in total, between one administration and another. In addition, we should not only focus on one crime (misappropriation) or another (misappropriation). No, no, There are others; among them, fraud against the Administration. Fracture the administration! And that directly appeals to the Administration, to the competing administrations in financing this failed project. Fraud against the Administration is one of the crimes, that is, the Basque Administration must feel called to participate in that process or in that judicial process that is being opened. It's almost book, it's almost like common sense, drawer. That is why, and also out of interest, for example, as we mentioned earlier in the first point, the Basque Government must be present in these actions which we already see affecting it and we must take all measures to ensure that actions such as these do not occur again. I believe that the Basque Government should do so. It will, because it seems that the initiative will be supported and approved, and I think it will have to do so forcefully. And in this respect the compromise amendment is clear and simple: the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to act as an injured person (it is clear that my previous colleagues have already spoken about this), to comply with the recommendations (well, that is good and we must also do so, we have seen it in other processes). And also something that seems important to us: since it has a special dimension and also the workers themselves are bringing very important considerations in relation to the whole future of this process, that the Basque Parliament meets with the workers of the Hiriko project in relation to some of their concerns, that they have expressed publicly and that they want to do so also to the Government, or that they should do so to the Government. We shall therefore vote in favour of the compromise amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u54	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Unite the EH team as representative. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u55	Good morning again. Although one after my speech says that someone here intends to bring the Hiriko case back to this House for purely electoralist interests, I will try to disassemble that argument in a preventive manner. Hiriko has proved to be a complex case of possible political corruption due to its political and entrepreneurial links, in which public interests are mixed with purely private interests of the project promoters. There is no failure in the town, the object of which the city was founded was to spend public money in favor of friends and corporations in the neighbourhood of EAJ. It is not a failed project; rather the opposite, Hiriko met the goals for which he was born, which are none other than to spoil the public coffers and benefit a number of entrepreneurs, friends and people affiliated with the PNV. The nature of the plot is evidenced by concrete examples: the promoters of this project did not put just money out of their pockets, they trusted and knew that this project would be financed from the public coffers; the PNV negotiated in Madrid with the PSOE government the most important items that were destined for the project; the people behind the project participated through non-profit associations in order to have less control over the actions they carried out; the promoters lacked any experience in the sector, yet they had a preferential relationship in their dealings with the public administrations and with the different departments of the governments of Gasteiz and Madrid. The reason? They were politically endorsed by the PNV: all promoters are party people, have represented the party at different times and are people recognized for their political affiliation to the PNV. That's reality. And that's why we say it's a political business. However, though the evidence is present, EAJ continues to say that we are using this theme with our informalists. Today the PNV continues to deny the largest, and we feel that this issue is being used for purely electoral purposes. It should be remembered that it was their electoral motives that prompted them to agree with the PSE that the commission of inquiry should be limited and we could not access all the appearances that some groups requested. For their electoral motivations we have suffered that some of the reports that were requested have been carried out almost half a year after the conclusions of the commission of inquiry, and for their electoral interests we have suffered from obscurantism. And Euskal Herria Bildu had to characterize himself so that patents would not be lost and would remain in the hands of other entrepreneurs who aspire to profit from the public money invested. Today-a lot of questions still go on without an answer. And although you try to answer, this answer does not satisfy the curiosity of the people. A few weeks ago, Councilwoman Tapia said that the Hiriko project had met its objectives. In the face of such an interested statement, in full control we remind you that the roborroudes (premonitoring name about what the project was going to be) were not used by any car company, even having them developed, because they could not be approved in any country by the different laws, thus financing a project without economic viability. It was no use at all. When we were talking about car folding, we told him that this development had already been developed by MIT, so there was nothing about innovation. But what goal could be met, if the car didn't even walk? However, the chief physician continued to defend the project, though he knew it was a bubble. What's the reason for that? Well, that's all there is: that those who had profited are of their own party, that is to say, of the EAJs. A month ago a PNV parliamentarian in an interview defended the figure of the promoters, accepting that they are known to them, and that they have an exemplary past. He set an example for Echave. I invite anyone in this House and on the street to look at who Jesus Echave is, in how many companies he participates, the industrial sectors of these companies, how many public contracts they have, etc. But only by seeing the actions he committed as Hiriko's promoter would it be enough for us: he rented a place owned by another of his multiple companies for a price higher than the market price, he renewed it with public money; he sold himself wine through his winery for the events that Hiriko organized; he also self-invoicing. Come on, that's the only way we can get the idea of whether it's an example of an entrepreneur or an entrepreneur favored by his political contracts and his political contacts, and that he's been doing this kind of action so far on a continuous basis. Today we won't review the names one by one. That's not the day to do it today, too, when it's done before. But it is best to remind them that one of the principal authors of the project was Louis Miguel Macías. Mr. Macías, in December, presented resignation as the post of EAJ, on account of his relation to a case of supposed corruption, the case of the minads of Carrada. They are not isolated cases, everything is connected, and it is that, apparently, the PNV has confused the internal structures of its party with public institutions, considering public institutions as a branching more of its party's own interests. Today we are presenting a full amendment to the original proposal put forward by the Joint Group. The first and second points of our amendment coincide with the original proposal, although we believe that they better define what has happened and what is intended by this proposal politically. Our third point and the fourth come to add more content to the original, since, on the one hand, we ask that tangible and intangible assets be monitored... Tangible assets are all those material elements that were purchased through public subsidies. This is how car balances, vans, industrial material, mounting elements, etc. appear. These tangible ones we would like to know where they are, and above all that they are not being used by other companies today for purposes other than those for which the subsidies were granted, as several media have already denounced. The intangible assets are those that the engineers defined in the commission of inquiry as those knowledge and developments that would allow the development of a model similar to Hiriko. We are very afraid that, if we do not monitor that, this knowledge will be used free of charge by the companies that participated from outside in Hiriko's plot and that today they may be thinking of developing through these intangible assets a similar project outside of Euskal Herria. The fourth point seeks to fulfil a promise such as that made to Hiriko's workers by this Government, and it is only to meet with them. We also ask that the Government, as it has done in other cases, defend the interests of workers and defend their right to be paid the 120,000 euros they are owed. Of course, we are not talking about those Hiriko workers who, shortly after the closure of the Hiriko project, found accommodation in the Basque Government in several departments, but about those workers who did have the illusion that the project could be viable. We talk about them and them, not the others. With regard to the compromise amendment, we believe that the first and second points are positive; we believe that the point of workers has been added, which was ultimately point 4 of our amendment as a whole, but we would ask, if it can be, that, as it has been and has appeared in the media, the third of the points, which is to monitor the assets that were subsidized and paid with public money, should also be considered, since it will certainly be the only way to recover the money that is owed to workers. That's the only way to get the money back, or the little money that Afypaida can have in his accounts. It's the only way I'm paying. And also, especially if we ask the Basque Government to take care of all the assets of Afypaida and to take care of the recovery of their money, we will have to defend those assets that may have been diverted from the Afypaida non-profit association itself, and ensure that they and their recovery. To sum up, and to finish, I will say that Hiriko was born to be a failed project, because the only goal he pursued was to get as many grants as possible, to split the money and to run, as they did.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u56	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u57	The President, the President, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all good afternoons. It's not the first time I've brought in, but, Mr. Maneiro, you're a master in the application of chaos theory, the one that discusses how a possible flapping of a butterfly in Kansas, by setting an example, ends up in a tsunami in Melbourne. Because if in Euskadi one day the police arrested some gentlemen (who released them, by the way, at 24 hours), a matter like today, Hiriko, who had to have debated on the 26th, we moved him two or three weeks later... Why? For this theory of chaos has an explanation: it can be seen that, when you often call them, and rather poorly educated, "auxiliary services" were essential to bring this issue forward, you did not hesitate to delay the debate to try to turn them into their auxiliary services, when you really are the one who has become your subordinate service. And all because your only objective is to keep talking about the matter and shake the PNV, true obsession with you and most of this Chamber, less on this side, when what you should be looking at is the citizens in general, and in particular the Citizens, that they are going to harm you, and not us, that we are blessed. Well, in this account you've brought back here, there's nothing new here from the latest interpelation on this subject, but it's from the research committee. As we all know, the US Attorney's intervention has been sent to court and that's what's good for you to take off your snorting again. Look, on behalf of people that you and others are permanently muddling about, they recreate in every case they're trying, if it's not resolved in anything punishable, it turns out that everyone will shut up, and they won't apologize. But the damage to institutions, businesses and citizens has already been done, and that is absolutely unfair. I will not even go much deeper, because this motion is the cause of an interpellation in which you dedicated yourself – and today the representative of Bildu too – to talking about that commission of inquiry that we are permanently responsible for torpedoing, in which I have felt questioned as someone who collaborated with a cause of latrociny with full hands and therefore as a necessary co-operator for it. And, man, I'm not going to get mad, especially because I'm making a nervous stress effort now that I'm quitting smoking on Osakidetza's recommendation, and also for an interest I have in trying to get a new seat to be among all of us the next legislature, so I'm going to try not to get mad at that necessary co-op accusation. Because it can't be that, because you get frustrated by not getting a commission to last a couple of years to go through various electoral campaigns and hundreds of fronts, accuse us or accuse me of torpedoing, of hiding. It cannot be, and I do not allow you to give me a lesson in democracy, when you refused to vote, in that committee of inquiry, you refused to vote which documents we had in our hands and which had been forwarded to us by the company and the relevant body had not arrived or had arrived. I deny you any chance of trying to weaken either me or the Nationalist Parliamentary Group or the PNV, claiming that we intend to block a commission. It is denied to those who refused to approve that the Basque Court of Auditors twice approved an administrative management and sent us the signed papers to prove it. Democracy, Maneiro, is learning to eat with the same satisfaction a cheese of Idiazabal and a toad, but you are a sybarite of democracy, and you withdraw what you do not want. Because, I insist, you have to eat it all, whenever you answer the truth. That, in the end, added his vote, as today, to others to obviate objective truths and democratize a perverse narrative. Now, and in view of the fact that the prosecutor in the middle of the election campaign has brought the Hiriko case to justice, with the entire catalogue of charges, back to the burden. They are not worth the explanations they can give that respond to objective truths. No, no, They're not worth it, because they don't respond to the script you and others have written before, and because you need to keep the fan running permanently and remind the staff that you're the one who keeps it running. You, assisted by your auxiliary teams. The Chief physician has told you about the whole meeting and the committee in questions and interpelations, and I'll tell you again without doubt what a prosecutor does. The project, nobody has denied it, everyone says it, received 2,650,403 euros from the Basque Government, which is what we are talking about here. After the whole budget had been completed, the administration was checked out. In this check, 130,000 euros were asked to return in effect not to be followed. And what I'm saying here, the head of Arzi Tapia said less than a month ago. If the Etorgai program was managed correctly, and for the moment no one says it was not done so, if the execution inspections were correct, as in the dozens of projects of the same calls, and for the moment no one says it was not so, there is no reason to stand before the court because that supposes that it is done with a concrete accusation, and not to be there gossiping. And if the criminal process is also in its embryonic process, in which no investigation has even been carried out, or some are being done that will produce different consequences and we do not know which ones, a characterization of the Basque Government is not justified. In fact, in order for them to know – and I am not of the legal profession, but I have illustrated what I have been able to do – the characterization in a criminal case can only be made with a concrete accusation, and not to be there for gossip, as it is possible to do in a litigation. The person concerned is accused of mismanagement of the funds granted by the Basque Government, and therefore of mismanagement of the person who controlled the aid. So go there, but know that it has not gone in our will to accuse the previous Basque Government of guilty management, for nothing, that it is the one who granted and monitored the aid and that, according to the data that they operate in the hands of the current department, in principle it was done in a correct way. Another thing is that throughout the investigations that the court makes, that there will be changes to what we now have, and that you know, you can detect wrong actions or crimes of different kinds. Then it's time to figure it out. Otherwise, the characterization today seems to respond only to a political impulse to entangle where it does not belong. Because are you sure you're going to keep all the charges initially dropped by the prosecutor in court? I don't have it so clear. I can say the same about asking you to return scholarships. If you only knew that the money he gave you has been used, even used to fulfill the goal of subsiding, it doesn't seem good to ask you to return a scholarship on those terms. Something has progressed along the path of objectivity, by trading a text in which money is requested to be returned if a judgment determines that it has not been properly used. They have been slipped the idea that things may not be wrong. Now, that is, I warn you – and this is simply a warning, because in principle I have a good willingness to support that point – they are in contradiction, because they request in the same paragraph to comply with the recommendation of the opinion of the paper, which says: "Parliament urges the Government to formalize the request for the return of aid and subsidies to Afypaida". On the one hand (see if they're softening me!), which had to be returned before, yes or yes, and now only according to sentence. All in the same paragraph. Because, if they ask to come as injured against companies, it is that they presuppose a misuse. Then to what do you request a return only on the basis of a sentence, if you have already ruled that you have executed it wrong? Well, go to the original of the recommendations. It is not your interest to ask the Basque Government to take care of public money, which it does, and you know it. Its interest is to give absolute veracity to an accusation of a prosecutor, and to increase such veracity by pushing the Government to accuse. The truth is that you the presumption of innocence, forgive me, wrinkle it, cut it, read it, and make a pure with it. If a prosecutor accuses, which is his, you do not give him veracity faces, no: they make it an absolute truth to which everyone must adhere, and, if not, they are accused of dirty connivance. I'm just asking for a little final exercise. They pick up some prosecutors, analyze the charges they've been able to make, and then crack them with the final sentences. You will see how the concept of presumption of innocence acquires a degree of relevance that you, in your political obsession with seeking enemies, despise. Perhaps there are more accusations that have ended up being dismissed than failed research projects in the world. Isabel Allende said that "he who seeks the truth runs the risk of finding it." I have a feeling that you're not the ones who want to take risks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u58	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the answers, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u59	Yes, thank you, President. What is quite clear is that, if anyone does not want to seek the truth of this fact, and of other similar or worse facts, it is the Basque Nationalist Party, which persistently refuses to launch all the commissions of inquiry in recent times and that even when they are launched, what it does basically is boycott them. And, indeed, I can refer to the facts, because that is exactly the case, and the Basque Nationalist Party has tried to boycott this committee of inquiry, which, by the way, I have not spoken too much about, because I have not looked too much into the past, but what I have said is what in our opinion, and in the opinion of the majority of this Parliament, the Basque Government should do. Thanks to the groups that are going to vote in favour of this compromise. Thanks in particular to the Socialist Group, which has signed this compromise, but also to the other groups which, I understand, are finally going to vote in favour of it. I do not know if this embraces the theory of chaos sponsored by UPyD, but of course it is clear that we have achieved, through the relevant negotiations and through our political insistence, more support than the Basque Nationalist Party. Again on this occasion, as on other occasions, we have achieved the support of the rest of the groups. But it must be that we're all wrong except the Basque Nationalist Party. My obsession is not to shake the Basque Nationalist Party, although it certainly may seem so. The truth is that what I personally do and UPyD does in this Parliament is to control the Basque Government, just as UPyD in the Congress of Deputies controls the action of the Spanish Government. That's our obligation. It is not our intention to shake the Basque Nationalist Party – although, of course, there are reasons – but above all to control the government's action and to observe what exactly has been done wrong. We did not postpone the motion as a result of the fact that the representatives of EH Bildu, all but one, the one behind me, or the one who was, decided to leave the plenary, but as a result of the fact that there was a group in this House, in particular a member of the People's Party, who asked me to do so, because there were two members of the People's Party who were absent due to illness. With the rest of the votes, and with the vote, supposedly, of the representative who usually sits behind me, we would have won the vote. That is the reality, if the two parliamentarians of the People's Party had been. However, I was asked to postpone the motion because there were two representatives of the People's Party for sickness. Nor do I have great interest in always winning all the votes. I don't usually move for that. What interests me is to defend a series of principles and a series of ideas. And indeed we believe in this transaction that we have finally signed. It seems to me that it is, in fact, a minimal transactional. The representative of EH Bildu proposed adding something else that might be of interest, but it seems to me that the reflection here is something of common sense, of minimums. Indeed, we call on the Government to take action against individuals as injured in the complaint filed by the Office of the Prosecutor. And the Basque Government does not want to act as an injured person in order not to give the impression that perhaps the controls were not carried out correctly. This is what the counselor said at the time: not to give that feeling. However, you yourselves recognize that perhaps later you could characterise yourself depending on how events go. That is, it is you who have slipped the idea that the controls were not carried out properly. In our view, out of political decency, transparency, political and democratic pedagogy, the right thing is for the Government to be affected by this complaint. Of course, we call for all the recommendations of that committee's opinion to be complied with and for the public funds granted by that Government to be recovered in respect of which a judgement determines that an unauthorized use has been made. And that it defends the rights of workers in the development of the case opened in the courts. What's wrong with all this, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party? A perfectly reasonable transactional, minimal, that would vote for it by any Democrat. Isn't it true that the prosecutor classifies Hiriko as a corporate plot that squandered public money? Isn't it the prosecutor himself who says this, or is it UPyD, in his loneliness, who defends these postulates? Isn't it the prosecutor who says he believes that behind Hiriko was hiding a network to steal public funds? What are the offences for which they are charged? Are these crimes that have been invented by UPyD? We are talking about embezzlement of public revenues, document fraud, fraud in the administration, fraud in public subsidies, misappropriation, money laundering. Charges that are important enough for the Basque Government to get wet, not look elsewhere and say that this matter is of concern and interest to the Basque Government. And, of course, Basque citizens have been harmed as a result of the misuse by these promoters of these public funds granted by this Government. Finally, I believe that we are indeed talking about a possible case of political corruption, but, in any case, justice will be the one that I give and the one that gives judgment. In any case, I believe that this is what the Basque Government should do today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u60	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u61	For us, I say, our sole purpose is to control the action of the Government. I believe that this transaction will go ahead, and therefore I thank again all the groups that have signed or will support this transaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u62	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u63	Thank you, Madam President. The truth, Mr Telleria, is that I did not intend to intervene, but to clarify some of the arguments that you have used regarding the signatories or those who support the transaction that I believe will come forward today. First of all, I would like to affirm the Socialist Party's commitment to clarify and ensure the proper use of public funds (in this particular case in Hiriko, for example), as we are doing from the Socialist Government with its prudent, rigorous, controllative action, such as this parliamentary group in the committee of inquiry, and without any possibility of further progress in the opinion. Because the opinion itself says, regarding Hiriko, that the report of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, that of the Court of Auditors of the Kingdom, that it is not known, between the corporate structure of the companies of Hiriko, the financial flows... Finally, there is a lack of data that could not be available, and that is why now, in a judicial process, with the tools of obtaining evidence, we can move forward in the analysis of these cases, when we know the reports of the courts of accounts as they conclude. But, even so, with the data we have, we have been forceful and at the same time respectful of the presumption of innocence. This parliamentary group has been in both ways: forceful in the defence of public goods, and respectful of the presumption of innocence. But what cannot be said, Mr Tellería, is that above all we try to give veracity to the complaint, to the prosecution's complaint, because the opposite is much worse. What cannot be done, we understand, is that the prosecutor accuses a number of people of very serious crimes in connection with the use of public funds, and the Basque Government, or this Parliament that analyses this matter, look elsewhere. If the prosecutor says, it is reasonable that the Basque Government, as affected, not accusing anyone (and may), people in the case, and already, to see how the events take place. Because the Basque Government has done well – and that is proven – the rigorous monitoring of subsidies, but there can be two scenarios: that it does not affect the Basque Government's subsidy what it finds, if it finds anything, the prosecutor (in terms of embezzlement of funds, fraud in the use of public funds...), that can happen perfectly, or that this corporate entanglement may have deceived one or both governments in the use of funds. But that, if it is, will prove it a judicial process. That is to say, in what has not been wrong is the control of the Basque governments over developed technological products, and that is fine. Then what's the problem? The prosecutor very seriously alerts to fraudulent use of public uses... What problem does the Basque Government have, as a possible affected, being incorporated, without accusing anyone? None. I do not think that we are, today, the ones who signed a proposal in defence of the use of public funds, in defence of the proper use of public funds, who must explain what the public prosecutor has published, but it is the government that must explain what he is doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u64	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u65	Yes, thank you very much, President. The findings of the Committee of Inquiry stated that the economic relations between the associations already mentioned, the consortia, subcontracted companies, "constitute a complicated swarm of operations that, since they are essentially based on public funds, it is necessary to analyse, value and qualify". Well, that is what the prosecutor and the judge are doing at the moment on this issue, that is, taking necessary steps, which we had already seen in a parliamentary political investigation, but which is quite clear that it demonstrates, as well as the monitoring of the Court of Auditors of the State, that there is much that needs to be continued and deepened. In that regard, there are the substantive issues. Mr Telleria, I have to say that Mr Maneiro is indeed right. I mean, I had a partner and a partner who were absent due to illness in that plenary, and I told him that, if he went on, the point would be lost. And logically I said to him, "You'll see, Gorka, you'll see; if you want you'll postpone it, and then we'll have a chance to talk about it." Because we didn't know some of the positions, but if we knew... at least I was clear that you could win, but with the justified absence of my colleagues it was impossible. So that is the case, and in Parliament these things happen very often and logically. I believe that normally you could have voted for this initiative, with absolute normality. The initiative focuses on the administrative actions we have talked about, on the workers as the subject of public attention, and on the characterization of the Basque Government. In character. And that is justified. It is essentially also justified; it is justified. That is, two of the offences, fraud against the Administration (fraud against the Administration) and fraud in public subsidies, this justifies the characterization, because it is appealing to the administrations, their subsidies, their public money and administrative action. The judge will decide, on the other hand, whether or not the characterization is necessary, but we understand, Mr. Telleria, that if the judge says that you are harmed you are interested in the case. And the judge says the Basque government is hurt, so he's interested in the case. Fraud against public administrations, fraud in public subsidies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u66	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u67	Man, let it be said here that no one torpedoed the commission of inquiry, I think it's at least missing the truth. I would like at least to be told when the report of the Basque Court of Auditors on Hiriko arrived. And, if anyone is right, say also whether it is normal or not that a report from the Basque Court of Auditors on something that is being investigated politically in the committee of inquiry should be brought to our conclusions later or that the committee of inquiry should draw its own conclusions. Whether it's normal or not. In our opinion, it is neither normal nor correct, or at least it should not be. It has been said that the project itself does not question whether it is a failed project. I don't think it's understood. Euskal Herria Bildu has it very clearly: it is a failed project from the beginning, because there was no project. And I remind you again: the robrorudas could not be approved, with which an investment was being made in something that served absolutely nothing; the fold developments already existed on the part of MIT, was being paid for something that already existed. That's like paying for making flying bikes. The problem is perhaps in the eligible model that we have at industrial level. We are subsidizing projects that may be of no use at all and for which we do not want any kind of viability. Perhaps what we should do is start thinking about what model we have, and whether everything is industrially eligible. Is everything that will not be possible to market eligible? Perhaps we should start having this debate, perhaps it is the debate that needs to be taken into account. Because if what we can get to subsidize from the public coffers is any stone from any entrepreneur who will then not be able to market, what a coincidence, as long as those entrepreneurs can also have some political proximity to some political parties or others, we can close the circle already. Because maybe that's what it is, in the end. Perhaps it is a question of being able to give money to entrepreneurs without having to validate a viable industrial project or at least serve something. And this car was useless, and, above all, everything that was developing already existed or could not be approved, and there is the problem. The project really served absolutely nothing. The points that are being dealt with or put to the vote today, in short, are merely the implementation of the committee's recommendations, or part of them. We know, certainly because we have already seen in the debate on the De Miguel case what the position of the Nationalist Group is going to be, we know what the position will be in this case, whether or not the Government will comply with the recommendations or what is going to be voted on here in Parliament, but it is also a sign that the problem is no longer a problem for the Basque Government: it is a problem for the Basque Nationalist Party. It is a serious problem that the Basque Nationalist Party has, because, I say again, dwarfs grow up to it, and every time it has lost control of some institutions or every time something is investigated, cases come to light. What I am very glad about, on the contrary, is that the point of the workers has been accepted, and it is to be thanked, because it is they who could make that project or give viability to that business project, it is they who worked and developed at least some of the jobs, and it is they and they who today have not charged anything at all. I'd ask Mr. Lehendakari to meet with them. Counselor Tapia told them two years ago that you were going to meet as a government. In that at least commit yourselves, comply with this, simply with that, even if it is only with meeting with them and them. And surely they will also clarify many of the positions that at least they and they have quite clear about what the Hiriko project was, what the Hiriko project served for, and, above all, the situation in which many of them have remained. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u68	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Finally, Eucabertarians are representatives of the group, Mr. Telllería has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u69	Thank you, ma'am. Look, Mr. Reyes, you said in the first intervention, I think words from the prosecutor, but they saw a business opportunity, and they didn't know anything. And I wonder: if that's so clear and so obvious, and that's wrong besides, why did the Basque Government give them that help? Why did he give 2,600,000 euros to gentlemen who knew nothing about cars or electricity? Something guilty must be there! And another thing, Mr.López de Munain: are there tangibles, are there intangibles...?, are there to watch the tangibles or intangibles, or were they doing, I don't know, flying bikes of those that maybe will make Candy in Gipuzkoa? Is there something to watch, or has nothing been done? It's just that I haven't finished getting it. It's a whole bunch of contradictions. By the way, Hiriko's workers have paid for something. In fact, they agreed not to charge. You know that, tell the truth. They've charged something. What do they have to charge for everything? Of course. I'm the first one to demand that they cover everything. But you here said they didn't charge, and they did, and you know it. To begin with, no one has turned to me until yesterday at seven or eight in the afternoon with a transaction, and not to negotiate, but to "This is what there is." Okay, you guys wanted to leave the PNV out, okay. I insist that we do not agree on the first point, and I have explained it to you. I believe that there is only one accusation from the Office of the Prosecutor, which can be changed; I believe that at the moment the data in the hands of the Basque Government is that the aid and control have been properly carried out, and therefore we do not understand that it should be presented. However, in the second point, although we have warned of the contradiction in the text, but understand that it has been modified in a correct way, in the direction of saying that it is covered when it is shown that it has been mismanaged, we will support that yes, if we are allowed to vote for points. And on the third point, why not, receive the Basque Government and Parliament to Hiriko's workers, like any of a company in crisis, like anyone in ERE... Of course we will also support that point! Look, I'm going to repeat something my colleague Eugenia Arrizabalaga said earlier, but because I think it's worth saying, as to how this matter is being handled. In the last parliamentary term, in that long committee of inquiry into Miñano and a lifeless subject, you, Mr Maneiro, on May 10, 2012, in the plenary session of approval, said: "In the end it has been possible to establish firmly that a crude system of espionage controlled by a leader of the PNV was created, as well as that land was bought in which it was never possible to raise a pavilion with no exact purpose". End of date. Do you know, on these issues, what was the judicial conclusion? Has it been addressed in the same forum, to the same citizens, to explain to them the judicial conclusion in which you assured the faithful demonstration of facts that a judge has said that faithfully for nothing are faithfully demonstrated, and decided to faithfully archive them? Here I wait for you, that, if you always attend to the faithful truth and to the faithful justice, come to this forum and say that you were not faithfully right, that you falsely accused, that you did not adhere – and still do not adhere – to the principle of presumption of innocence, and that you faithfully lied, because that faithfully proved not. Here I await him faithfully, and the people whom from this stand he faithfully accused without evidence, always appealing to justice. Well, if you want justice, take justice. There you have them, waiting faithfully for you and for the faithful others. Look, there's just a judge's sentence that a woman who's been in jail for how long has she been out, because she says it's a sentence of subjective intuition, which is redundant, it's like saying equine horse. But if you even see your amendments to this non-law proposal, you, Mr. Maneiro, say: "... the Hiriko project, where you could have... Not "they can," "they could." That's what he's saying to people. And Bildu is saying, "...and because apparently in that project they were committed..." 'Cause it looks like it. How are we going to figure it out, if it's all "it seems"? What's more, I'm going to tell you, the theory of chaos brings this, because, having been delayed, today... And it is that Senator McCarthy – excuse me, Madam President – came to the U.S. Senate to accuse people working in the State Department of Communists, saying that "I can say I don't have much information, except for the investigation officer's report that there is nothing in the archives that discredits their communist connections." Macartism or argumentum ad ignorantiam, already disappeared from customs and customs, have just recovered it, and it would come to be: no report plainly states that it is impossible that they are thieves, then they are thieves. Amen. For today, 16 February, the decision of Judgement No. 3 of Vitoria, which states: "The provisional dismissal of proceedings with regard to the crime of fraud against the administrations is agreed." And he says on his second ground of law – and I am not a lawyer, but I understand it perfectly –: "What is unsustainable is that the facts described in the complaint can be incardinated in a crime of fraud against the Administration and article 4.3.6 and 4.3.8 of the Criminal Code. Nor does the most imaginative of legal engineering allow the interpretation of the type carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office." So be it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u70	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Dots? First, two, three. Is there a problem? After the discussion, we'll go into the vote and vote for the first half-way, Misto-UPyD and the middle-class point that Euscalal Socialists have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 71; the votes are 72; the supporters 45; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u71	So the first point is accepted. Next, we'll vote for two and three points. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u72	One mouth has been accepted two and three points. Next, the fifth point on the subject list: "Grow up the legal proposal of the legislatures to prevent the ball of rubber used by the border. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal, Mr. Arzuga, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, congressmen. Manu Cabacas, Fina Licerantu, Xabier Izusta, Michael Quintel, the victims and relatives of the nafarres and rubber piles, welcome. I'm going to give eight reasons for this legislation to ban rubber balls. First, because this material is fatal, because it is legal, and has proved so. Five people have died in the Basque Country because of rubber piles launched by security forces: Jose Luis Aristior and Isidron Susper too in 1973; Louis Santamaria, who, in May 1977, died in Iruña by the rubber ball thrown by the National Police; Not long ago, on the third anniversary of this loss with his family, we shared their pain and their suffering. Besides these dead men there have been hundreds of wounded who have survived the attack of rubber piles, who are superbient. At least 13 lost their eyes. Garcia, Lasa, Rueda, Leiza, Boyero, Mayone, Quintel, these are their names. Many others have suffered every kind of wound: Caskel-tumutism, the decay of the bones, the serious complications. As reality shows us these forms of less-lethal have assumed a serious danger to the physical whole of the community. On the request of the court which investigates the trial of Cabacas, a report made by the Central Unit of Police's Crimistics, including, by the force of a ball-shot, by a bounce, is enough to break the skull. We don't need a report because reality proves it to us that way. Two. Balls deny proportionality, reduce opportunity and congruence to the police operation. These are the reasons which supposedly justify police action and which decline with the use of lanzapelotas. The speed with which those shells are fired, the force with which they strike, make it absolutely disproportionate. A doctor graphically pointed out in an appearance in the Parliament of Catalonia: "A punch goes fast, but not so fast." He added that from a medical point of view, a weapon of low lethality cannot be considered; it can even cause death. Disproportion is not a mere laboratory hypothesis, as witnessed by the presence here today of relatives of their mortal victims. But it is also that the lack of precision of the impact makes it absolutely indiscriminate, and therefore inopportune and inconsistent with these supposed anti-disturbing purposes. Both direct shot and rebound range is absolutely random, luck effect. With the experience we have today, will we continue to speak of bad luck, of accident, of avoidable error, in fact fortuitous? The victim is chosen by pure chance. They themselves have graphically said that it is a Russian roulette: the rubber projectile chooses its victim, he decides in which area of his body more or less vital will impact. The third argument. Maybe he never was, but there's no reason now why he's justified by this kind of material. The level of riots in the street has sunk in intensity and quantity in this country. Some of them resemble what they should be happy to be, and express their effective connection to this repressive material. For this reason, it seems, the Security Department acquired another material. In a question made by this parliamentary group, this new material said that when it spits no foam bullets, it would discard rubber balls. The side of this new material said that the chosen shoots are more accurate, that the user avoids injurious consequences which the user does not anticipate, and that they do less harm. This is more accurate, safer, and less hurtful. Why, then, do they need, compared with the foam projectils, shooters of rubber piles which are not safe, and which produce more damage? It's been two years since those non- foam bullets and the shooters got hold of it. We do not entirely protect this material, because we do not yet contain any definite data from its consequences, but we may say that in the comparison there is sufficient reason for the Security Department to exclude rubber balls, in order that it may absolutely and permanently forbid them. Fourth argument. The damage caused by rubber balls does not receive any kind of recognition and reparation in justice. Derived from the stigma that their victims were perhaps disturbing public order or that they were too close; derived from their being blamed for the damage, or perhaps their error because they were in a wrong place, or perhaps from the fatality that the perpetrator could not be identified, the truth is that there is not a single case in which these very serious injuries, including death, were found to have been criticized by the courts of justice. Not to date. Justice has been blind to these materials. The history of the damage caused by rubber balls to Basque citizens is the history of impunity. Perhaps some will interpret that the lack of a justice response proves that there is no harm. Unfortunately, the legal truth, the judicial truth, does not correspond to the real truth, to the truth of the street. The 2008 Report of Victims of Politically Motivated Human Rights Violations contains cases that have not actually received a response from the Justice Administration. That report sleeps today the dream of the righteous, but points to cases that are pending, cases with which truth and justice are still in debt. Five. Their prohibition is necessary as a measure of non-repetition. I do not know what circumstances will be allowed or what situations the spearheads will be reserved for, but all I know is that with the mere restriction the facts we are referring to can be repeated also in the future. It only depends on how the exception is estimated for use, how this appears collected in the internal instructions of the Ertzaintza. An exception that we will not know, that we will not be able to evaluate, because these instructions will continue to be reserved and we will continue to be denied access to these instructions, as well as the judge investigating the only case today opened for the use of rubber balls, the case Iñigo Cabacas. An exception that seems rather to leave its evaluation to the police themselves. Recently, in one of the few riots we have known, agents were demanding to re-use this material, as the new weaponization of foam bullets did not prove to be strong enough. Who runs the Ertzaintza, the agents? Who decides the material they must use?, the intermediate commanders who decide to enter with everything?, the unions?, the media that gives them coverage and magnifies that demand? Who's responsible? Who adopts the responsibilities? From another point of view, who is the one who has that irresponsible attitude? That possibility of reproducing the damage caused by rubber balls must be definitively avoided. Definitely and forever. Because their victims demand it when they talk about their tragedy, because we cannot tolerate the police playing with fire on our streets, even if only in certain situations, in restricted circumstances. Because the restriction may improve statistics, but risk is not avoided. Because the tickets may be reduced, but the macabre lottery is maintained. Only the prohibition, the definitive and unconditional withdrawal of this weapon, can lead to the guarantee that it will not generate more irreparable damage, more victims. Sixth, because around us rubber balls are disappearing. All over Europe, this kind of material is disappearing from the riot. In the Spanish State, and in Portugal, they are only employed at the present day. We have no reason to believe that we now have a more sociopolitical confession in the Basque Country than in the other parts of Europe. Katalunian emandako urratsa exanguratsua yes, herdugarria. On 18 December 2013, Parliament adopted the following resolution: "The withdrawal of rubber balls, which are to be gradually replaced, must be started immediately, so that on 30 April 2014" – i.e. four months later this resolution will be adopted – "the total ban will be effective". Total prohibition. The trigger for the adoption of this statement was a demonstration by an ophthalmologist who had treated rubber ball wounds and who before Parliament recognized: "We are not used to seeing patients with war injuries." With this decision taken in Catalonia, the island of territories that maintain this weaponry is further reduced; they are even closer to us. Why can't we take such a decision, when the damage that has occurred in this town is even more severe? Seventh argument: because today there is a social majority and a political majority and an institutional majority, and there is also a parliamentary majority that can ban them. In the June 2012 debate there was no such debate. Then the PNV demanded the ban; specifically Mikel Martínez said: "The Basque Nationalist Party believes that the time has come to completely and definitively eliminate the use of rubber balls by the Ertzaintza. And we believe it and we are convinced that this is what different international institutions (the European Union itself, the Ararteko, social movements) recommend, because that is also what Basque society is calling for." Before he was in opposition, today he is responsible for Ertzaintza. Then that position could not be approved, but today there is a majority. The PNV has withdrawn its amendment today, I will listen carefully to why it is doing so and what attitude it is taking. Now, when it is shown that there is no reason for serious social or political confrontation to justify it, and rather there is a social demand that the Basque police also adapt to the new times, we cannot fail to move. We cannot stay in a position that was bad in June 2012 and that today is worse. Eighth and last, because we are at another time, out of responsibility to him. Because requesting Ertzaintza, as is done in the Peace and Coexistence Plan, a new attitude is not compatible with doing so with old methods. Because this Parliament cannot give legitimacy and political cover to the throwing of rubber balls. Because it would be tragic if a fact similar to what has already happened could be repeated now, in addition to a decision by the Basque Parliament. Because it's time to take a step forward. Because it is time to remove unconditionally this material which has caused so much damage and suffering, and which, if appropriate measures are not taken, will again cause. Because it is time to disarm the Ertzaintza of a material that has been determined deadly and lethal. For his victims.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u74	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u75	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the Socialists are going to vote for the amendment we have negotiated with UPyD, which says that they are not used, withdrawn, banned, totally restricted (I repeat, totally), in all units of the Ertzaintza, rubber balls, and that they are replaced by other non-lethal means, less harmful to people, and above all, and very important, that all Ertzaintza agents are trained and trained in the proper management and use of these systems. Because, although I want to think about the goodness of the initiative that Bildu brings us today, which asks for what he asks for and which in addition in purity does not stray so far from our position, we must begin by stating, ladies and gentlemen, that the exercise of the freedoms of us, of citizenship, has never been guaranteed without guaranteeing their security. And that and not another is the work of an integral police force like the one we have. And I say that I want to think about the goodness of this initiative because when you want to always put the work of the people who guarantee our freedom on the lookout for us, and therefore our security, I unfailingly retreat to unforgivable times, ladies and gentlemen, in which what really came underneathed – it came in as a roundabout, but it was ultimately the core of the question – was that old, outdated, and, above all, miserable statement that the police, in this case the Ertzaintza, our integral, democratic police, at the service of all of us, of all citizens, remains a repressive police (how was that of the Txakurrada, the Cipayos, etc.?), which has nothing better to do than to pursue, suppress and restrict the freedom of the people of Euskal Herria. Well, to be exact, of the population of a part of Euskal Herria, because to date, unless I am confused, the Ertzaintza lacks all kinds of competence in France, not even in the execution of rogatory commissions. But let's get to the point, ladies and gentlemen. As you know, this is not the first time we have discussed this matter. Indeed, and as Bildu's spokesman has recalled, in the last parliamentary term, back in June 2012, as I say, we discussed a similar initiative. And it is fair to note that, as a result of the tragic and unfortunate events that caused the painful death of Iñigo Cabacas, the Socialist Government took the measures that substantially improved the security of the citizens and that have been maintained so far. But that, as we already stated at the time and I think we made it clear, meridianly clear as clear water, were provisional, because the total elimination of rubber balls was planned gradually. So, in purity too, and if we had dealt with exactly what was proposed, proposed and committed by the Government and the Socialist Group, this matter would be definitively resolved months ago. And if the government that came later had followed the steps that the socialist government started, we would be debating something else rather than this. If we are where we are today, ladies and gentlemen, and we are going to get to where we are going, which I hope we are going to get somewhere, it is because this process started, as I say, to get here, with meaning and responsibility, the Socialist Government. In April 2012 – everyone will remember – Councillor Ares announced the significant restriction of the use of this anti-disturbing material. On 1 January, the prohibition of all citizen security units was envisaged. But the total elimination of use was also expected once the transition took place and replaced with new riot control elements capable of minimizing the risk of any injury to people. On 11 May 1997, the Deputy Security Adviser of the Socialist Government, Mr. Buen, also amended and renewed the internal instruction governing the use of this material, which had not been reviewed since 1997. Three years have passed since then, and in these three years what has the present Government done, ladies and gentlemen, apart from maintaining the measures which the Socialist Government has put in place and not continuing with those which were also planned by that Government? Nothing. Absolutely nothing. It is worth remembering what was then said by the Nationalist Group, which also mentioned the spokesman for EH Bildu: "For the PNV it is time to completely and definitively eliminate the use of balls by the Ertzaintza". It has always been said, ladies and gentlemen, that we are masters of our silence and slaves of our words, and we do not in vain draw proverbs to confirm realities. So, the group that supports the government, in a clear exercise of double morale, and above all for electoral interests, I want to believe, had no way of demanding that immediately, and with the joy of the unconscious, the Ertzaintza go out into the street to face serious problems of public order with one hand ahead and another behind. Or, rather, as my colleague Mr Unzalu said, then, with his hands in his pockets, as if he were going away with pots. In almost two and a half years since the establishment of this Government, nothing has been done except to bring the department's relations with the Ertzaintza to its highest levels of conflict. No effective measures have been taken, no clear measures for the definitive replacement of the material by alternative mechanisms that allow agents to face situations of tumultuous and serious public disorder for the safety of individuals and public and private goods that allow us to guarantee not only our security, but our own. Nothing. Now, today, it seems that indeed the Nationalist Group, which supports the Government, making the necessity virtue, has withdrawn its amendment and will approve the transaction signed with UPyD. Welcome to work and responsibility. We shall be watching, to see that this is actually being carried out and that what is being said is being fulfilled. This amendment we have signed is rigorous, impeccable, and we cannot say to this that no, if what we really want is for rubber balls to be removed immediately. And I don't think it can be rejected absolutely by anyone (and the appeal is express for the EH Bildu group). Remember what I was telling you about the kindness of the initiative. I ask you for the House's support.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u77	Yes, thank you very much, President. Indeed, rubber balls are the basic projectile of anti-disturbing police forces in Spain, although the European Commission recommended their disappearance by the end of 2012. It is 90 grams of solid rubber, slightly more than five centimeters in diameter, launched at an output speed of 720 kilometres per hour. The young Iñigo Cabacas died in Bilbao because of the damage caused by the impact of a rubber ball on his head fired by an agent of the Ertzaintza. The then Home Secretary, Rodolfo Ares, announced at the time, and in parliamentary office, that the rocket launchers would cease to be used on 1 January 2013. Indeed, more than two years have passed. The Ertzaintza began a process of renewing its anti-disturbing material with more precise launchers and other projectiles. Only mobile brigades could use the spearhead shotguns exceptionally, and over time rubber balls would cease to be used permanently. They say experts who recommend their removal that rubber balls are dangerous: their trajectory is random, and cause serious damage to people. So much so that the protocol of intervention of the National Police Corps and the Civil Guard obliges to shoot against the lower extremities, at a minimum distance of fifty meters and with previous rebound on the ground. In addition, the projectile material has softened its impact in recent times. In any case, its use should be the last option to dissolve a violent concentration, according to the same protocol. The Unified Police Union has not requested its withdrawal. He believes that the use of rubber balls is necessary, its protocol of use is precise and safe, and they are only used in exceptional situations. His spokesman explained that, for example, they were not used during student protests in Valencia, since there must be circumstances of open hostility. The matter has also been dealt with in the Congress of Deputies, where the United Left recorded a written question asking the Government to clarify whether it intended to waive the use of rubber balls as a deterrent and repressive means in cases of riots, riots or citizen demonstrations. A source from the Ministry of the Interior explained that for the time being, no changes are being made to the protocols for the operation of police and civilian guard riot squads, although there is an open attitude of improvement and improvement of the existing means. Among the defenders of rubber balls are those who claim that they are essential to be able to deter sufficiently far from violent acts, without having to reach the body by body, a situation that usually raises the number of wounded among the police and among the demonstrators. Another argument in favour is that in intervention scenarios such as closed urban helmets their possibility of rebound makes deterrence more effective. I say that these are arguments that say rubber balls are still necessary. The Italian and Greek anti-disturbing bodies do not use them. Among its deterrent materials are tear gas, elements that, according to specialists, reduce the distance to repel contact, which increases the number of injuries between protesters and police. The Germans also do not include it in their material, although the number of agents per protestor is much higher than in the peripheral countries. In the United Kingdom, Portugal and France rubber balls are used; however, Gallic agents have changed their material to much more precise launchers. Anyway, and in conclusion, I'm done with three notes. In our opinion, it is nauseating for EH Bildu to say the things he says in the justification of his initiative, when he points out that, for example, this material poses a serious risk, or when he points out that different police officers have used various anti-disturbing material during the last decades against the population of Euskal Herria. We cannot allow this to be said by EH Bildu, a political formation that still does not condemn ETA. The greatest risk that Basque citizens have had and have suffered has been ETA's criminal actions; therefore, I say that I find it nauseating and that I find it inconsistent that EH Bildu defends what he defends in this initiative and that he explains what he explains in the justification of this initiative. Two. The police must have tools to defend themselves. It is the only body legitimated for the use of violence, and, as the Basque Police Act says, it must use force legitimately, proportionally. And three. There is no element in the exercise of legitimate violence by security forces at zero risk. Therefore, it will be necessary to choose such material that is effective and that better guarantees the safety of agents and individuals. This is what we proposed in our amendment, which has finally been the basis for signing a compromise amendment with the Socialist Group. In our amendment we proposed the definitive suppression of rubber balls in all units of the Ertzaintza. Indeed, agents must be given material that is effective, but that guarantees the safety of the agents themselves and obviously of the whole citizenry. That is why we note the initiative we have registered at the time, to urge the Department of Safety to definitively replace the use of anti-disturbing rubber balls with another material that is less harmful to people, which also allows Ertzaintza agents to perform their work correctly and effectively. And we propose to urge the department to provide the Ertzaintza with the necessary means and instruments to guarantee its safety and that of all citizens, both in the usual development of its indispensable work and in the face of the development of violent acts. I believe that this amendment has not only been the basis for signing a compromise with the Socialist Group which is finally going to be adopted, but in this case again the vote of UPyD, or the presence of UPyD in this House, will make it possible for this initiative to come forward, because I sincerely believe that the Basque Nationalist Party has decided to withdraw its amendment in the last instance by verifying that it was going to come forward with this proposal for UPyD shared with some other group. The definitive replacement of rubber balls, which rubber balls will no longer be used by Ertzaintza, is the progressive UPyD proposal that I hope will come forward, perhaps with the votes of all the parties in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u78	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over the uncorrected teams, Mrs. Llanos, representing the Basque Potion Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. We are again discussing here, as other groups have said, an issue that was already discussed in 2012 following the death of Iñigo Cabacas, and from here and from this group we want to re-express our desire for the completion of the investigation, and that, if necessary, when the facts are determined, if there is a need for clear responsibilities, they will be cleared. But when such an initiative is presented, some considerations need to be made. First of all, it should be noted that security and freedom must be a combination that must be properly combined. A society without security is not a free society, and therefore we must seek a society that guarantees our freedom. We all agree – I believe all of us – that the use of force by the different police forces must be governed by the principles of congruence, opportunity and proportionality, and in addition to agreeing this is established by the law itself. And that also, if necessary, should be used with measure. We all agree also that the use of anti-disturbing means has to be the last resort to use in a progressive action, but all too, at least we should all agree that sometimes the use of force, however much the Ertzaintza or any other police group do not want, is sometimes essential. With regard to the use of anti-disturbing means, when questions of this nature arise, we believe that an assessment should be made of the context in which the use of these means takes place, and we must therefore speak of the need to reconcile the use provided by force in the face of violent behaviour with the exercise of the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. And what we can't hide, no matter how much we wanted to sell a happy Arcadia here, a world that exists only in the imagination of some, is that there are groups that make violence their modus vivendi. They are groups that take advantage of numerous demands and demonstrations charged with goodwill to use them as a paid ground for violence, violence on extreme occasions, to put at risk the exercise of rights and freedoms, including physical integrity itself, both of those participating in the demonstration and of citizens who were exercising their daily lives and were not forming part of the demonstration, and of the actors themselves. And in view of this, it must be made clear that Ertzaintza has an obligation to provide a proportionate response to such violent acts, and it has an obligation to restore public order. We cannot stand idly by in the face of violent situations, inter alia, because Ertzaintza has the function of protecting and defending public security and the rights and freedoms of all citizens. Our streets cannot be spaces of impunity, no matter what some claim, where the violent seize it and the citizens we are hostages and involuntary prisoners of that violence. It is true that, in the first place, what must be done is to deepen preventive measures, as a deterrent measure to avoid major evils and actions by anyone desired. The first for which they are not desired are the Ertzaintza's own agents. It is true that there are scenarios that are sometimes difficult to prevent and that the use of force is inevitable, but it is also true, and we have said on other occasions, that there have been some incidents that have occurred recently that were easy to predict, and that the organization of the operations was absolutely deficient. And so we can put, for example, the images of Bilbao during the celebration of the World Economic Summit, which was the grass of the violent with the inaction of the police themselves, following instructions of a political nature. That it was also denounced by the unions themselves and by the Ertzaintza agents themselves present there, and it has been denounced at this parliamentary seat. Or the denunciation of agents by operatives such as those carried out in Vitoria, where the number of agents sent was absolutely insufficient. A patrol was sent to hundreds of protesters. Our group, of course, does not want a model based on disproportionate responses, but also a model whose response is inaction. And it is true that sometimes correcting with the principle of proportionality is not a simple task, because it is true – and we can recognize it – that it is one thing to organize an operation on the walls of a police station, and another to work on the ground. But in some cases what fails, which is absolutely improveable and clearly improveable, is the very preparation of the operation. And, as I said at the beginning, improving preventive measures, improving the design of the operation, would sometimes be the most effective measure. But, even so – we also recognize it – these preventive measures are sometimes not enough, and therefore we must act in the face of these violent acts. Violence does not arise spontaneously, and the proponents of this initiative know better than anyone what we are talking about. We need to be aware that law enforcement agencies sometimes have to deal with absolutely organized violence, and that therefore the actors who have to deal with that violence have to be given the necessary means to ensure the integrity of all citizens and their own integrity. It is true, and we agree, that these means must be as harmful as possible. And what concerns the proposing group, which I do not trust so much in the goodness of its initiative..., perhaps I should begin to internalize certain patterns of behavior. Because there are no more episodes of violence in Euskadi... I do not know what Euskadi will live in, Mr Arzuaga, but the episodes of violence continue to exist. And, therefore, if these episodes of violence did not exist, it would help not to have to use anti-disturbing materials. Perhaps to avoid these violent events we would have to start by unequivocally rejecting them, recognizing that they exist and rejecting their existence, and not putting any hot cloth on any violent events. If we strive to seek subterfuges or justifications to violence, what we are doing is sowing the broth of cultivation for it to continue to exist. With regard to the use of anti-disturbing materials, it is true that there are many and there is no unanimity in Europe. Some countries, such as Germany, use water cannons; in Italy, tear gas is used. In many cases, some policemen say that these anti-disturbing media are absolutely dangerous. It is true that the Ertzaintza has a new material. According to the agents themselves – and this will have to be assessed – this material lacks effectiveness, is not effective enough to repel violent acts, and does not guarantee the safety of the agents or citizens. And it does not allow it to act, as I say, safely enough. We're going to maintain the same position we held in 2012. The same. Other groups may change it; we, the same. We believe that it is necessary to replace gradually and to restrict to the maximum the use of rubber balls, which, until they are replaced by other means, are only the anti-disturbing brigades that use them. But it is also true – we said it then and other groups have said it here – that what cannot happen is that the Ertzaintza goes out without any means to the street. That cannot be, because, obviously, in the face of absolutely extreme forms of violence, defensive means must be used. It is necessary to maintain security spaces, because sometimes these security spaces prevent the body by body, which, according to many police officers, is infinitely more dangerous and more harmful, not only for the agents themselves, but also for the demonstrators themselves. In addition, it is also necessary to see how an operation is organized, because if a particular anti-disturbing medium is used it does not require the same number of agents as if another is used. And what is true is that in other countries of Europe other anti-disturbing means are used, but it is also true that in operations there are many more agents than there are here. Then, if the replacement is made, it must be done in a complete way, and with the organization in a complete way. We were not going to vote in favour of the initiative presented by Bildu, among other things because what was coming, what lies behind this initiative, is not that rubber balls disappear, it is that any anti-disturbing means disappear, because it lives in that ideal world in which we would like to live, where there are no violent means, but that is not the case. And in view of that need to maintain public order, it is necessary to give the agents and members of the State Security Forces and Forces and the Ertzaintza, therefore, the relevant means. But those means we agree that they have to be as unharmful as possible. And of course we said it in 2012 and we reiterate it again today, and that is why we are going to vote in favour (we were going to vote in favour of the Socialist Party amendment, there has finally been a compromise and we are also going to vote in favour) that we are restricting ourselves to the maximum and that we are going to replace it with other less harmful means, which obviously do not cause damage that all, we all regret, and the first ones who regretted it were the State Security Forces and the Ertzaintza, which I believe was the most regrettable... Evidently his parents, friends and relatives the first, but then I believe that the agents themselves who participated in that operation were one of those who most regretted death; the inexplicable, and that of course it had to be avoided, death of Iñigo Cabacas. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u80	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. Zurrill, who represents the eulogy team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Chief of Staff, Congressman, good noon to all. Logically, we respect what is happening, every group of Darts just decides when to bring his proposal to the meeting, but we had a clear idea of what EH Collect would do, although the other legal proposal was to present itself to the 27th of February. We knew when they were coming to the meeting: You know, from the death of Cabacas as close as you can. And what was planned has been accomplished. Let each one draw his own conclusions. That being said, first of all, and as it cannot be otherwise, from Euzko Abertzaleak we want to again convey our condolences to the family and friends of Iñigo Cabacas, and to express to them sincerely that we are aware of their pain and share it. It is a matter that is at the judicial level, and today we reiterate once again the demand that as soon as possible it should be completed and, if necessary, that all the responsibilities that may arise from that situation be cleared up. In this very sensitive issue, it is a question of finding a balance between the use of means that can be more effective in ensuring public safety and public order, but with the least harmful impact on people. And all of this, logically guaranteeing a rightful use. We must address this issue with great sensitivity, solidarity and understanding towards anyone who may have been the victim of misuse of anti-disturbing material, before whom all possible responsibilities must be demanded. And also from the maximum understanding and solidarity towards the agents of the Ertzaintza, who also need means to guarantee public order at all times. Its function is difficult and complicated to manage in cases of serious disturbances of public order, but at the same time it is necessary to ensure and protect citizens and agents themselves. While these police actions must be subject at all times to the principles of adequacy, necessity and proportionality laid down in the Police Act. I believe that no one can doubt that the interest of both the political positions of the Basque Government's Department of Security and the police commanders, both current and former, as well as of the Ertzaintza's own agents, is to avoid or minimize unwanted consequences for the life or integrity of people in the use of police equipment. The Ertzaintza, like any other police force, must ensure the exercise of the fundamental rights and freedoms of Basque citizens, of all and all. We understand that the right to free expression and free movement are fundamental rights in a democratic society, and these rights can and must be exercised in a normal and civilized manner. The problem arises when others are violated in the exercise of these rights, endangering the security and integrity of agents and citizens, and even of demonstrators themselves. We understand that the preventive aspect of minimizing risks is very important in this area, and in this line we are working in an outstanding way, first with the acquisition of new materials less harmful, and second with new operational tactics. Yes, Mrs Gallastegui, steps taken, steps taken by this Government. Following the tragic event of April 5th... I will detail the steps that you have taken and that have been followed by this Government. Following the tragic event of 5 April 2012, the political and police leaders at that time made a determination to seek a material less harmful to the management of public order problems, proceeding to the immediate restriction of rubber balls; a decision which also responded to the proposals made by this Parliament. Contradictions or non-contradictions engulfed us. Whoever has no contradiction in his bosom, who throws the first stone, is worth the expression. The metaphor may not be the most appropriate in this matter. You can apologize. From there, the Ertzaintza Operational Commission, the technical working group of the agents themselves, was taking necessary steps to investigate what type of material was being used in other European police officers, to analyse its characteristics and to assess its functionality and potential risks. As a result of this research and verification work, the launcher model HK-169 was finally chosen in 2012 to be used with 40-mm ammunition, a weapon of police use adopted by a large number of European police officers. Once the material and its supplier were selected, the new launchers were received between the end of 2012 and the beginning of 2013. The relevant technical tests were carried out in the Mobile Brigade Unit, and from the Arkaute Academy the necessary training was organized and provided for its use, first to the specialized units of Mobile Brigade and Intervention, and then to the rest of the units, mainly those of Security and Citizen Protection. To date, more than 3,300 ertzainas have received training for the use of these new launchers. With the acquisition of these new launchers, the mouthguns, the rubber spearheads, were restricted to the Mobile Brigade Unit and the Intervention Unit, regulating their use, whose regulation was reflected in instruction number 73 of the Deputy Security Council, which states that the use of the spearheads is absolutely restricted and of an exceptional nature; their use is limited to situations of exceptional risk, with the aim of avoiding major evils. Today, all units of the Ertzaintza that need its use already have HK-169 launchers as mass control material in situations of serious disturbance of public order, in accordance with article 34 of the Police Act of the Basque Country. The regulation of the use of these new launchers is reflected in the Deputy Security Adviser's Instruction 74, which states the need to continue conducting tests and investigations in order to optimize their use, to approve less harmful munitions and to maintain the effectiveness of police tasks. In addition to this, as I said, the second important section of the steps that have been taken are the new operational tactics, which are aspects that have evolved in the actions of the Mobile Brigade over the past two years. We believe that some substantial changes must be highlighted, as a result of the experience gained by the Ertzaintza, also of the new times, and contrasted with the experience of other police officers in the European environment. Interlocutive and communication methods have been enhanced for participants in protest rallies, to anticipate and prevent them from drifting into more serious and more risky violent behaviours for people. The identification number of the agent has been visibly incorporated into the uniforms. The Mobile Brigade has been provided with safer and more effective personal protection and self-defence materials for the direct management of certain forms of disruption of public order, highlighting the acquisition of new trauma vests with optimal safety, protection and ergonomic standards. All this is accompanied by instruction and training courses aimed at optimizing police effectiveness in the control of situations of high-risk public disorder for the agents and third parties themselves, as well as the continuous development and updating of regulatory instructions that must give the persons concerned maximum legal certainty in the exercise of the functions entrusted to them as guarantors of public security in the event of crime. Therefore, I find it very categorical, and I would even say reckless, your assertion that nothing has been done, and more considering that you have recently asked some questions to the department that are still unanswered and today I recognized that you have no information. How then can you claim that nothing has been done? Here's some data that something has been done. I'm finishing up. Our desire, I think shared by all, is that no more, no more will there ever be another death, not even a serious injury, but unfortunately we do not live in an ideal world and there can be violent demonstrations or serious problems of public order, and Ertzaintza has to have the necessary means and instruments (if they are less harmful, and effective, much better) to guarantee its safety and that of all citizens. The person responsible for maintaining public order and legality cannot be defenceless and unprotected, as EH Bildu claims. This type of proposal, as Mrs Llanos said, has another purpose, as the spokesman at the Bilbao City Council also recently stated. We have tried to reach a compromise with the Socialist Group, and in view of the fact that there was no possibility, we have withdrawn our amendment with the intention of supporting the Socialist Group's proposal, since this is what was adopted in this House in June 2012 and what this Government has been working on, continuing that work. At the last minute they have reached a compromise with UPyD, and we are also going to support it, because, as I said, it is in line with what was adopted by this House in June 2012 and by the Socialist Government, and what we are continuing to work on today so that things like this do not happen again. I have a minute and a half left, and I wanted to make a quick review of one of the eight reasons Mr Arzuaga has put forward. Briefly, because there will be no more time; then in the turn of the replica I will extend a little more if possible. It said the first that they are lethal, and that there are many wounded. For it is obvious, and that is why (the evidence is here) these kinds of measures have been taken to try that this does not happen again. It is also true that when used, or when used, these anti-disturbing media, there was also a serious danger to the physical, and lethal, integrity of aggressions that occurred with Molotov cocktails. As I said, these are new times, and those new times are proving that steps are being taken to avoid new tragic events like this. We do understand that the Ertzaintza, our integral police, always acts under the principles of article 34 of the Basque Police Act, and in the event that it does not, will assume the corresponding responsibilities. Obviously, as I said in third place, the level of incidents has fallen. What are the reasons? For what reasons? It's not because the Ertzaintza used to come out looking for them! And it will also recognize me that the use of anti-disturbing means – not rubber balls, which, as we have said, have been virtually permanently restricted – but the new anti-disturbing methods are not being used in an abundant way either, as we were saying. Damage that is not repaired to the victims. Well, justice is a power... Separation of powers must ensure compliance with the law. What I can say, and in response to his colleague Maeztu, to a question he asked about the incidents that occurred in 2000 and 2012 caused by rubber balls, the Department of Interior – or Security at the time – of the twenty-seven scenarios, in thirteen estimated the claims partially or totally. In point 5, he said, "...they wanted to deny the judge." I think this has become quite clear. I think I've heard it several times, and I think you understand it. I think you understand, what happens is you don't want to manifest it. Instructions 73 and 74 did not correspond to what was requested by the judge. That is how it was stated, I think they have clearly explained it to you. If requested by the judge, of course, despite the reserved character, justice cannot be denied. It couldn't have been any other way. With regard to comparative law, Mr Maneiro and Mrs Llanos have already made a review, I will not repeat that. With regard to the social and political majority, we are here today the Basque society represented, and we, as I said, will support the compromise signed by the Socialist and UPyD Group, which will also be supported by the PP. And we encourage them...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u82	Please go to the end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u83	And we encourage them (I have one final point left) to join this proposal. The last point I'll leave for the next shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u84	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. I was thinking for a moment that maybe EAJ would support prohibiting rubber balls. Figures half corrupt. Un verdadero sur agua fruitia. Certainly, we were presenting this initiative in February so that it could be brought today, because I do not think it is a debate of technocrats, but it is a debate that brings an aggravation, brings pain and brings suffering from behind, and it is precisely in those circumstances that we should take a step that is not going to take today. The PNV swam between two waters, banning or restricting. He swam between two waters: his word given in 2012, or his word in 2015; his word in opposition, or his word when he is ruling and when he has the capacity to implement these kinds of prohibitions. And they have chosen the worst and in the worst way, because by withdrawing their position they pretend to simulate that they have no position, because their position is not to have it, or perhaps to change it randomly (in 2012 one thing, in 2015 another), as randomly as they kill these rubber balls. Let others decide, maybe UPyD. That it be UPyD who takes the decisions to be taken by the PNV; that it be the agents of the Ertzaintza, that it be the intermediate commands, that it be the unions, that it be the media, that it be the manufacturers of balls who take decisions that the PNV does not want to take. It is serious the content of what is decided here today, it is serious the way in which the PNV does not want to assume its responsibilities and does not want to assume that it is decided. That indolence, that carelessness about a subject that is so painful and that is so worrying, is serious. The next victim of rubber balls will be, and will be, with the support of this Parliament. UPyD has made it very clear: rubber balls are basic, they are necessary, they are essential in anti-disturbing police action, and that is exactly what they are going to vote for. [[Berber]] That's why, gentlemen of the PNV, that's why... (Berbotsa)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u86	Silence! Mr. Arzuga, please, just a moment. Let's see, each has his or her turn, and each one defends his or her position in his or her turn. When everyone touches their turn, they defend their position. Excuse me and continue, Mr. Arzuga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u87	Therefore, with restriction and substitution, which are the words that are decided here, what they really achieve is that nothing changes at all. That's exactly what we had in 2012. And I'm going to give Mrs. Gallastegui the reason when she says nothing has been done. That's exactly what's happening today, and it's that you don't take a step forward, when there was that chance. We are not going to support it, we cannot support these terms of "restriction" and "substitution". Not "suppression", Mr. Maneiro, not "suppression", which does not appear at any time in your text: "immediate restriction" and "definitive substitution", exactly what we have today. Because for you balls are basic, necessary and essential. That is exactly the situation we have, and that is why we are going to maintain that it is necessary to ban, it is necessary to withdraw unconditionally, which is precisely what the victims of rubber balls were demanding. Because we would have accepted "suppression", the word that Mr Maneiro said, or the words "that are no longer used", which was precisely what all the parliamentary groups approved in the Bizkaia Diputation ("The General Councils of Bizkaia call on the Interior Department of the Basque Government to stop all units of the Ertzaintza from using rubber ball launchers"). Now there will be an Ertzaintza unit that will continue to use it, which is the Mobile Brigade and the Support Brigade. Mrs. Llanos, she says, "Our streets cannot be spaces of impunity." They're going to be. They're going to be. The rubber balls will be used again, and will generate new victims who will not get justice. Today it doesn't change anything, today it doesn't change anything, today we haven't made any progress. Mr. Zorrilla, you recognize me that these are new times. No thanks to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u88	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. (Applause) The Basque Socialists represent the team. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u89	Good morning again. Mr. Arzuaga, I'm willing to change the wording. What we are asking – I believe I have told you loud, clear and bluntly – is the disappearance, the restriction, the prohibition of rubber balls. If you want, I'll change it. And when it comes to substitution, it's very clear. I'll change it! [[Berber]] When it comes to substitution...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u90	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u91	... The dictionary of the Royal Academy of Language is very clear: it is to change one thing for another. I can tell you more, that I have a lot of custom, too. Speaking of customs, I would never have imagined, when I first came to this Parliament... that I would have to control the words that I have to say, because I have a certain tendency to use words that are not appropriate, but what I would never have thought is that the lack of elegance, of knowing how to be and of respect for the rest of the parliamentary groups that you sometimes use, Mr Zorrilla, has no match. First of all, at no time have I told you not to have any information. We don't have it, because the department, instead of giving it to you, gives it to you! He comes here, and instead of answering the questions and the control and documentation initiatives we ask him... But not only in this one, it is in others too, in almost all. And I would never use a private conversation, if it were to happen, at the parliamentary rostrum. But I'm getting to the point. All those things that you say about substantial changes, methods of interlocution, identification numbers... were already appearing when Mr. Unzalu Beautiful... That puts it this way: Uzalu Hermosa says that what the Department of the Interior is putting forward in relation to this issue is a comprehensive strategy to substantially improve the situation of the Ertzainas in the exercise of their functions, the dialogue with the citizens, the measures of citizen security, and to guarantee the rights of all and the freedoms of all. And it was a strategy that hasn't changed at all. What we are telling this government, to make it clear, is that, as it had to have been a long time ago... Because incidentally, in 2014 there are 3,200 ertzainas who know how to use these new systems that have arrived in the department, but in 2013 there were two thousand and peaks. If all these ertzainas can use public disorder control systems and anti-disturbing material systems, I don't know what we're still doing using those rubber balls, that if it had been the socialist government that was ruling they would have disappeared by now. To be clear, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat: the approach taken by the Socialist Government at the time, the measures taken, were gradually being treated. Anyone who doesn't want to read... There are people there who have certain problems to read, because it's usually like when you talk: you're not listening to what the opposite says, but you're waiting for it to end up telling you what it means, and so we're not going anywhere. What we are telling you and what we are asking for, and I think it is meridianly clear, even if the word "prohibition" is not used (because neither is used the...; the prohibition is used but not the substitution for other things that can guarantee the safety of all of us), is that the Government withdraws, restricts immediately, definitively replaces the existing spearheads by systems that are not lethal and that guarantee the safety of the citizens, the safety of the ertzainas themselves, and that in addition all those training courses that we do not know, whose information is not made available to us – that we will already ask for it, yes – are a continuous training (continue, not "let's see today, if we use, how we are going to do it"), and that there is greater control of the beetles. And that is better uses, better trainings, better endowments to Ertzaintza itself for our security, that of all, that of the citizens who walk the street, the citizens who manifest themselves, the citizens who provoke public disorders, and also for them. Of course, of course as clear water, but we're behind, and on the way we'll meet. Next time we won't talk. You send me a document, and I'll tell you whether I sign it or not. And when we are in a place that is not a parliamentary stand, we will be able to have that almost lack of respect and, in the end, minimal education that we have when we are trying to negotiate something not for our own benefit, but ultimately for things to work out better and for what needs to be done when the government does not do what it needs to do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u93	Thank you, President. Let's see, Mr Arzuaga, I have never said at any time that rubber balls are basic, necessary and essential. You must have misunderstood. I have put forward what some who defend rubber balls use as argumentary. It's not ours, I haven't said this. I have started by saying that rubber balls are indeed the basic projectile of anti-disturbing police forces in Spain, although the European Commission recommended their disappearance by the end of 2012. And I have said, indeed, that the Unified Police Union has not requested its withdrawal, and that this union believes that the use of rubber balls is necessary, its protocol of use is precise and safe, and they are only used in exceptional situations. But that's what this union thinks, not what UPyD thinks. And, indeed, I have said that among the defenders of rubber balls are those who ensure that they are indispensable in order to be able to deter violent acts from far enough. This is what I have explained, but the UPyD proposal, both the amendment and the compromise amendment signed with the Socialist Group, is absolutely clear, and leaves no doubt about what exactly we are asking for today. We're asking that rubber balls no longer be used. This is what is written in that compromise amendment: immediate restriction and permanent replacement. In other words, rubber balls are no longer used in any case by any member, any agent of the Ertzaintza. This is what is written, we have wanted to say and we have said both the spokesman for the Socialist Group and a servant. Finally, it has been too long, the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist group has told us of all the actions carried out by this Government; however, I insist, there is one action that remains pending and that has not yet been taken, and that is what we ask through this transaction: the definitive replacement of rubber balls, that rubber balls are no longer used. All this you have reported is very good, but it is insufficient. We want one more step, the final step: that rubber balls are not used, just as they are not used in other countries in our environment. Let us see, there may indeed be violent groups or actions to which Ertzaintza must respond, as some group has proposed. We are not posing any kind of passivity on the part of the Ertzaintza; what we are asking is that the Ertzaintza respond with the most effective material possible, and in particular that those excessively aggressive and harmful instruments or materials are suppressed or no longer used, by randomness in their trajectory and the uncontrolled damage they cause. In particular, of course, I am referring to rubber balls. That is, we are not saying that, since there will be no violent episodes, rubber balls will not be used. We are saying that even if there are violent episodes and radical groups or violent groups, even in such cases rubber balls are not used. Because we do not actually live in a happy archadia, and there may be acts of violent groups, and there the Ertzaintza has to act. But it has to act – and that is what we are asking for – without the use of rubber balls, as is done in other countries in our environment, from which we obviously have much to learn. Anyway, I'll stick to the deal. I think it will be approved by a large majority. Perhaps it should be approved by the whole House. There has been a group that has decided to stay out of it, and in order to do so, what it has intended to do has been to grossly manipulate what this transactional says. Anyway, everyone decides what they finally vote for. The transactional and what we propose is meridianly clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u94	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u95	Thank you again, Madam President. I used to say that in my first speech. This group maintains with regard to this initiative, which is very similar to the one discussed in 2012, exactly the same position it held at the time. It is true that there are other groups that have varied, that have modulated their position, because one thing is to be in opposition and another is to be ruling. At that time we supported the government, but even supporting the socialist government the position was the same, because – we said so then and we want to reiterate it now – I believe that on this issue, on which it is sometimes easy to demagogue, Mr Arzuaga, what needs to be done is with responsibility. With responsibility. We said it then and we said it now, and we reiterate it again. Of course, we believe that we have to study other possibilities and materials that are less harmful than rubber balls, and that is why the proposal, because then there was a socialist initiative and amendment similar to today, and we support that socialist amendment, which was to say that, that the use should be restricted and that it should be replaced by other less harmful means. And it is the same, because what you claim, Mr Arzuaga, is that there is no anti-disturbing medium. And so would we if there were no violent episodes. If there were no violent episodes, which is what I think we all want, there would be no anti-disturbing medium. Because what you want, and you have said it here on many occasions, is that there is no police. And I wish it wasn't necessary, but it is. And, as I told you before, on many occasions it is clear that the responsibility is yours, because many violent acts, many violent acts in which you attack, like what happened in Vitoria, which you attack with stones, you attack the agents with customs removed from the ground, you do not condemn them. There are no violent episodes... I wish I didn't have them and no anti-disturbing means were necessary! But it is, because there are these violent episodes. What's to look for the least damaging possible? Of course. Although it is true that throughout the whole history of the Ertzaintza many rubber balls have been thrown, there have been dramatic episodes..., but it doesn't matter, even if they are few, they are so absolutely dramatic and important that they are replaced by other, less harmful, rubber balls. But what you clearly meant was that they do not exist, that Ertzaintza does not have the means to respond. And that is inconceivable, because in the face of violent episodes the Ertzaintza, by law, has an obligation to restore public order. And the restoration of public order I wish was done simply with the presence of the agents themselves before the protesters, but no, because that would again be the happy archadia that you claim. No, no, It's just that the Ertzaintza appears and they start throwing stones at him, they start insulting him. So, I think it is necessary to provide means (at least harmful, that is, yes) for the restoration of that public order. And there was talk... That is why I was saying and I agree that formulas should be studied. You say the new ones are not effective. I don't know, let them study. It is true that there are other formulas in comparative law, but it is also true that in many countries it is reported that the use of water cannons is absolutely harmful; that in many countries where smoke canisters are used two things happen: either that the protesters themselves are already carrying anti-smoking masks, or, if they do not carry them, the injuries they produce are also very dangerous. With this, of course, when it comes to studying the substitution of this anti-disturbing medium, it must also be seen that precisely that is achieved, that it is much less harmful than that of today. That is why we, as in 2012, say that it should be restricted, and, of course, that it should be terminated and that its elimination and replacement should be promoted by another means. And that's why we support him and today we do it again, because we believe that any episode, even if it's just one, is enough for us to carry out this analysis. But we also have to say and we want to end up trusting in Ertzaintza, in the professionals, in his goodwill. Because here on many occasions that group, the group that you represent, Mr Arzuaga, and you specifically want to give an image of a vengeful Ertzaintza, which goes out on the street, instead of complying with what the law obliges you, which is to restore public order and guarantee rights and freedoms (yours and mine, and those of all Basques), goes out to attack. And that's not the case. That's not the case. With this I end up making an absolute defense of the professionalism of the Ertzaintza and its ultimate objective, which is, as I say to you, to guarantee the rights and freedoms, yours and those of all Basques. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u96	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u97	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs Gallastegui, I believe that we have recently negotiated several proposals in this Parliament, and I believe that my attitude with you has always been clear, forward and clear. I believe that today I was the one who told him that I knew he had put questions and that he had not yet been answered, and you answered me that yes, that he did not have the information, because you said that it was hidden information. I don't think that's any topic to wear as it has! It would be worse, and I think that in my case I did not refer to it..., that yesterday I tried to reach a transactional with you, this morning I tried to reach a transactional with you, and five minutes before the subject was dealt with I learned that I had arrived at a transactional with UPyD through Mr Maneiro, because, if not, I would have known when I was given the transactional amendment. I don't know what's more elegantly parliamentary. As for what was done, what was said and what was done? For, of course, what is said and done there are, and everyone has to assume his or her responsibility. Mr. Arzuaga, I don't know if you've listened to me or I've misexplained myself. Decisions and steps are being taken, I think the explanations have been quite detailed: immediate restriction and replacement with other new materials less harmful, seeking effectiveness. But, well, Mr. Arzuaga, take off your face. We already know what it has been in recent years and what its political strategy on Ertzaintza remains. I am not going to go back to very distant times that have come out here – Mrs Llanos has expressed it, Mrs Gallastegui too – in which from the world to which you belong you were considered to be the enemy to shoot down, with qualifications that I am not going to reproduce but have already been mentioned here. We are in a new time, yes, we have mentioned it both, but recognize that it is not yet easy, that they have to evolve a lot, that they still have within them important reminiscences of those past times. Recently, and in this line, his spokesman has literally said that Ertzaintza has been part of the Spanish state's war machinery. Who's here talking about wars? And this is noted in the actions of his group on a day-to-day basis, in the proposal they make today, in the processing of the last general budgets, those of this exercise of 2015, which proposed, among other things, the elimination of the items for the renovation of the helmets of the anti-disturbations, the items for the acquisition of anti-trauma vests, the protections of legs and arms as personal endowment of the Mobile Brigade, the item for weapons, with which the cost of ammunition is borne, mainly for training in the academy. The new times do not justify that the police should not train in the use of the regulatory weapon, as all European police, including our local police, do in our towns and cities. And today they want to add, in the same line, their proposal. Faced with this, it is clear that all the other parliamentary groups support and support him and we want an integral police force, which guarantees the exercise of the fundamental rights and freedoms of Basque citizens. I repeat again: of all and of all. And finally we were presented (he said, in the new times, old methods), we were also presented here today as a human rights defender. That's fine with us, that's right. We share it. But I would ask him: And so far where was he? Where were you when the Ertzaintza agents were burned alive? Where was he? There was no pain and suffering? Where were you when you were brutally assaulted? In those cases it wasn't by mistake, it wasn't by mistake! Or was it by mistake? Where were you when the terrorist organization ETA pointed out to them, to the ertzainas and to those who thought differently (journalists, judges, politicians, etc.)? Where were you defending human rights, when they threatened, when they were extorting entrepreneurs from this country? Or were these not Basque people? Where were you? He's talking to a representative of the Basque Nationalist Party, an old party, as Mr. Maneiro says, old because he's going to be one hundred and twenty years old. Old but with principles, and healthy and strong as a oak. One hundred and twenty years of defending all human rights for all. So, in this matter, lessons on your part to this no bench, Mr Arzuaga. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u98	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u99	I have received an offer to change the word "excited" from Mrs. Gallastegui, and another to change the word "excite" from Mr. Maniro. I'm asking you to be able to talk about it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u100	Well, he asked for a receipt. You guys agree with the amendment signs? Mr. Maneiro?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u101	I have not maintained any contact with the EH Bildu group. What I had to speak to was some representative of the Socialist Group, and, if I am not mistaken, what we have ultimately decided is to keep the transactional in its terms, because whoever wants to understand it understands it perfectly. This is the last thing I have spoken to any member of the Socialist Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u102	Bai. Gallastegui was walking?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u103	Madam President, I do not think it is possible to modify a compromise that is already signed. Therefore, when I refer to the amendment of the text I am telling you again, Mr Arzuaga, that in the work of monitoring compliance by...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u104	Please, Mrs. Gallastegui...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u105	... That's where we'll meet. In any case, there's no way to...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u106	There's no recessance? Okay, that's it. The discussion's over and we'll vote. Hey, maniro, do you have a prayer or don't you?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u107	No, I'm not, because you can't change the transactional.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u108	Bale, ready. Bear wave. It's over and we'll vote for the original text of the EHG as a group. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; the opponents are 19; the opponents are 53; white, 0; abstenations are 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u109	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we vote for the middle-term amendment signed by Misto-UPyD and Basque Socialists. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u110	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. I interrupt the whole meeting until four o'clock in the afternoon. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-five. The meeting begins again at four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u111	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Number of points in theme list: "The other question of the Decree of 43/2015 King of the College Schools by the law of Parliament is as follows. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Celaá, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u112	Mila esker, andrea president. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we are witnessing a planned erosion of the education system as a whole. The regression that Lomce has entailed will cost us some time, and the serious cuts that have been applied to scholarships, research or higher education, once again ratify us in the conviction that education is not for the Rajoy Government a public good that depends fundamentally on the progress of a country on equal opportunities for all people, but rather a commodity subject to the laws of supply and demand and, of course, much more accessible to those who can afford it. The Royal Decree 14/2012, which originated the largest rise in democracy rates, was confronted in this Community, we left it without consequence, we did not apply it by the López Government, but its consequences were devastating in some autonomous communities, in which they rose up to 65%, preventing access to the university of families with scarce economic resources, and who suffer more in a time of crisis and unemployment as in which we find ourselves. An example is enough to make this statement. Just a few months ago Mrs. Gomendio, the second authority of the Ministry of Education of the great country, said: "The Spanish university system is not sustainable. It is an impossible equation," he added, "the fact that Spain has one of the highest rates of access to university across the European Union and lower price systems. The problem is that education is not free, and the question is who pays it, when and how." These statements, which come to be a sequence of some others from Wert, such as "There are many universities in this country", "there are too many university students", or "there are too many researchers", which came to say the Secretary of State for Research, Mrs. Vela, are really part of a sequence that any citizen of the country would dislike, it would be irresponsible if he said so, but that in a political leader of the Ministry of Education it is not only unacceptable, but it is also a clear attack on what the use of collective talent means, which, by definition, is everywhere, and in those places where there is a shortage of resources, or in those situations where there is a shortage of resources, too. This inconsistency, said by those who have a lot of responsibility, such as Mrs Gomendio and Mr Wert, has consequences, such as that public spending on higher education fell from 0.97 of GDP to 0.83 in 2014, even with a lower GDP, when Europe's average of 27 is a little lower than 1.5 in higher education. So what Mrs Gomendio comes to say is that education cannot be paid, that education is so expensive that it is not sustainable. And one has to ask: sustainable in relation to what? How can we talk about education – higher education in this case – in terms of price? How can you dare make such a statement? Remember that English saying. I'm gonna say it in Spanish, so I don't... I know you all understand English, but it doesn't matter, I'll tell you in Spanish. In English, I'm told, "If you think education is expensive, try ignorance." And this is the theme, this is just the theme: "If you think education is expensive, try ignorance." Because, look, when it seemed that there was just the breath of a candle left for this ministry to make mutis for the forum, it appears with a new measure, dictating a royal decree, that of 2015, to reform the structure of the degrees. And do not believe that this is a semi-final fascia that appears by surprise: it is a measure absolutely planned by the Spanish Ministry of Education and that meets two objectives. The first, to respond to the public deficit target, to be able to be charged to a very large extent behind the backs of education. And the second, to resituate, that is, to shave the offer of public education, in order to give a chance to private universities. Of this I am telling you gives good account (i.e. it is not speculation, it is affirmed by the data)..., it gives good account of the fact that in the commitment of deficit control for the period 2012-2017 presented by the Government of Spain to Brussels an adjustment in the university education of nothing less than 1,650 million euros is established. Over these years, a reduction of 900 has already been applied, but there are still a few left, and this measure is coming to pass on those many others. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot in any way accept that, after having made a reform going out to the Bologna process, a structural reform, that part of a country that had a five-year degree and that structure with an upward range, that is, in a high rank, what are four-year degrees (here I am a parenthesis: we must not compare ourselves with Germany, because Germany, among other things, has a year more than a baccalaureate); when we make a structure and when that structure is still being implemented, when the vast majority of universities are assessing their degrees to be accredited, when this whole process is still coexisting with the end of the five-year degree, it is here that Mr Wert dares to open another process so that, yes – between quotes – "discreally", in a dispensive way, the universities will make, on this occasion, yes, of their layer a skirt, and they can establish degrees, titles of a three-year degree. With what is done a very, very fundamental structural reform, which affects not only the number of students in the system, but, obviously and consequently, the number of teachers in universities, which affects the devaluations of degrees, since, listen, you can get to the same degree sometimes with four years and sometimes with three, and also you will have much less education (which is less quality of education, less employability), and will give private universities a chance. And you'll say, "Why?". Mr Oyarzabal is already telling me with his head that he will not accept that, but I can give him a clear idea of why: because private universities are hosting more students, proportionally, of master's than of degree. Proportionally. Therefore, they are giving private universities a chance. So we're not going to accept it. We want this to go away, we want it to go away. We want you to withdraw this royal decree, of course a royal decree that aroused the alarm not only of the Council of State, but also of the Conference of Rectors, who immediately called for a moratorium at least until 2017, to evaluate and present a new proposal. And, in this sense, a real decree that somehow breaks the stability of university teachings and the quality of the offer, with the absence of a diagnosis, as occurred in the Lomce, must be withdrawn. It must be withdrawn, because we do not want any of the universities in the country to undertake this new management, not even in a deliberate way. That is why we have been able to reach a compromise between the Basque Nationalist group and the Socialist Group, which I submit to the House for the support of the other groups, that what comes to do is to solidify and also to support the proposal of the CRUE, in the sense that it cannot be implemented even in a dissipative manner that real decree, which produces an extraordinary disorder and devalues the degrees and process of Bologna, so that the Basque Parliament, as it did at its meeting on 24 July last year at the General Conference on University Policy, would ask the Basque Government to withdraw this real decree. And to request a report from both the CRUE, the Council of Universities, and the Council of Students, so that they may in some way draw up a report on the impact of degree teaching, what impact the changes would have in economic terms and in terms of quality, and how we could make a new approach agreed upon, with diagnosis and of course with time. For this we have reached an agreement, and I hope that the rest of the House will support it. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mr. Isas is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u114	Mrs. President of the Parliament, Chief, Congressman, good afternoon. I'm looking at the shots of Tejro, but no, we're not at Madrid's court. The parliamentary Isabel Celacha would have done very well in the Rue Saint Jerome, and I think he has been mistaken, a Gaste parliament. It's true that the Spanish Ministry, Mr. Joseph Ignatius Weert, has made the royal decree to change the organization of colleges and the titles we have in our colleges... Of course, but it's best to remind you: these 240 college credits, the degrees, and the 60th credits of a school, are the ones we have. And Mr. Wert wants to put in three degrees of learning and two degrees of learning. Secretary Wert, and I think Mrs. Isabel Celaá describes it well in her self-criteria, said: "It's not composition, colleges can decide." And one of the dangers is that he leaves the choice of the Universities, and some may apply it, others not. But we think it's a compliment. Then he said: "Families will save it, because the university rates to be paid will be smaller." Bullshit. It is an engagement, by itself and by itself, for the Signor Minister had thus decided, with the protection of his political party. And it'll be more expensive because, as has been mentioned, it'll cost more money to get the same title. For families, then, it will be better or burdens. We are against this royal decree, too. We have many reasons, some have been mentioned, and some will be repeated, and I will say, as far as we are concerned. It has not been evaluated to four years of age, it has not been taken from the evaluations, and we do not know what the results of our present university plans are. On the other hand, as it is left in the hands of different Universities of change, this obligation may have been mentioned, that there may have been a different duration, let us suppose that at the University of Deus, and at the University of the Basque Country, there arises confusion, and degenerates, in case of duration, the title. As the Socialists have stated, we ourselves are also a decree that an impulse towards private colleges is an impulse. Because the degrees titles are evaluated according to the work trade. In the 3+2 model, to get a degree of title that can be used in the trade, many students will be compelled to make two years of masts. Hence it is that you have to pay more dearly. Lastly, changing from four years of age to three may lead to the danger of dismissing many of the professors of public colleges, which I would like to mention. The danger may be that if the duration of appetite be reduced, if it be brought from four to three degrees of learning, there may be too much of the principles of the teacher. We agree with the rating of the Spanish rectors' Council and the order of the morators he demands. But how we see it here from the Basque Country, this decree shows that the design of university studies is still in dispute. It's a discussion, it's open. We would like to extend this discussion here, to discuss what is suitable to our university, and what is proper for our students and our country, how many degrees of year and how many degrees of learning we should discuss and discuss. In this discussion, on the other hand, everything is planned with another proposal, which has been introduced from the point of view of Spain. It is true that we have not much right here as to college, but that does not mean that we ought to look the other way, and that we must endeavour to obtain our rights. The project of the Minister was not only mentioned in this decree at the Decreeum of 43/2015, where there was another plan. There's a proposition on the table to change the conditions for Professional and college, and changing the acre system for a university professor. We agree with the socialists on this point, too, to shut the doors of the university with those who have no money or resources. Of course, we're against it. We don't think we should change the system of acreage without at least an examination at the moment. We'd like to discuss it, but we don't understand how it all goes to the hands of the Spanish Government. That's why we haven't agreed and we haven't signed the medium that socialists and the Jesuits have signed. We've got more important problems here in the Basque Country than college design, even if it's important. For example, the finance of public colleges, which has been sufficiently combated, or the fund of financing, it may be said, to renew and stabilize the professor, to improve the conditions of the investigators, to enlarge and strengthen the lines, to form the administration and services, to improve the conditions of labour and industry, to balance and improve the map of the habits of the Basque Country. In any case, the legal proposition can be seen from two corners: On the one hand, as has been said, the authority and the retrospective policy of the government of Madrid is not acceptable to transform the university by decree; and on the other hand, which is the best design of university studies, the rank of four years, and the rank of a school, or the degree of three degrees of learning and two years. As I said, EH Collect would like to spread that discussion. You know, it would need more power over college. The university should cease to be monopoly of the state. We defend the autonomy of the university, and at the same time we need a special university for Euscalal formation and development. This is Gasteen Law, as I said at first. I think it would be useless to ask the Spanish Government anything from them. We do not succeed in this member of the community to inform you of the representative of that government against the eucalyptus. How do we get anything from Spanish government? If we ask of the Spanish Government something, we would ask that they should be disarmed, that they should obey the right of dissolving and determining themselves. What do we have at the Basque University System Agency for, Unibask? What's the good of the University of Agraba and Bazia and the University of Gipu? Do they have anything to do with this? We wouldn't have asked them and our colleges to do this evaluation, and what do we need in the Basque Country University? We're in it, and that's why we're presenting it and we're keeping the correction we're describing. I'll explain it better next time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u115	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Corles, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u116	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President. Good evening, chief. We are speaking of the Decree of 43/2015 King, who changes the recent arrangement of official college studies. This allows the three-year-old degrees to be four years old and the Master in one year to be two years old. This change therefore supposes: and that in the university systems of Spain there should be three or four years at the same time. It was the only autonomic Autonomy Society that made an appeal to the decree, and afterwards the Prince Asturias, who accompanied him by the information of the Decretum in the conference on the 24th of the general University of July. Then both the students and the unions have opposed the reform, and therefore CRUE proposes for 2017 the mortar of his implantation. Again, the Ministry of Education has introduced a reform without consensus, which is a necessary condition of interview in any change in the education system. So this is a short-legged reform, with very serious problems of acceptance and justification. It makes us very happy that the autonomical association of PSE, the autonomical organizations of education, and the other autonomical legislatures, had revealed and demanded the office of education on the 24th of last year's July. The decisions taken by the Ministry have been made by the delegation of the Board of Education in the Confederation of General University Politics. And I'll repeat them and explain them. He said that the reasons for the rejection of the measures taken by the ministry were already expressed in his day by the representation of the Department of Education at the aforementioned General Conference on University Policy. Firstly, it was argued that students with shorter grades will diminish their chances of integrating into the labour market, as is happening in Europe with three-year grades. The system will be weaker if the three-year degrees are generalised, in which the whole specialization is transferred to the master's degree block, obliging the student who wants to fully perform his profession to have to take these master's degrees. The need for a master's degree, far from allowing for early and more direct access to the labour market, increases the student's retention time in the system, breaking, and also increasing the equity of access to university education. What is achieved with this, therefore, is to extend and increase professionalization. The basic non-professionalizing subjects remain in the degree, and the subjects that allow access to the specialized labour market move to master's degree. Extending and enhancing the system is the only thing that can be achieved. Secondly, it was said that the coexistence of degrees of different structures and durations will hinder the orientation of the future student and create a situation of conflict, which, together with the urgency of its implementation, will not allow the development of titles without a devaluation of training. Instead of obtaining approval with Europe, the system becomes less transparent, more opaque. In one university one degree may be three years, and in another the same degree may be four years, as colleagues who have intervened earlier have already said. This means that the system cannot be approved with Europe. It is very difficult for the Administration to assess grades and establish a system of validations. It cannot be worth the same either academically or economically a grade of three as one of four years. The decree therefore fails to achieve the intention expressed in its explanatory statement, since it neither improves labour integration nor promotes international mobility with a more transparent and homologated system in the European Higher Education Area. Both for the foreign student who wants to study in our system and for the Basque student who wants to complete his studies outside, the variability in the structure of the degrees will greatly hinder the system of equivalences and approvals, making the system much more opaque. Thirdly and lastly, the Basque Government has already shown that the reform was out of time, as a reform is being proposed without having yet evaluated the outcome of the four-year grades. Re-modify the structure of the titles, without knowing the evaluation of the current titles by the student and employers, inevitably again leads us to an arbitrary reform and lacking criteria and evidence of its implementation. This shows, therefore, that in the field of education it is governed by improvisation in Madrid. You can't go through a reform so important before you can evaluate the previous system. The previous system changes blindly without knowing what it works and what it doesn't work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u117	Thank you, Miss Corles. Passing to the non-correction teams round Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u118	Yes, I will vote in favour of the compromise that the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group have signed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u119	Mr. Oyagla, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u120	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Group of the European People's Party is not going to vote in favour of this compromise, of course. Mr. Isasi said that Mrs. Celaá would have played a better role today in the race of St. Jerome. I do not think so, because indeed Mrs Celaá's arguments have already been discussed, have been rebutted and have already been denied in the race of St Jerome on several occasions in recent weeks. This debate has already been reproduced there. I'll try to explain what the actual content of the decree is. Because Mrs. Celaá has not come here to tell us what the decree is about, she has not gone into depth. She talked about what Mrs. Gomendio said, that if the expense, if the PP doesn't like education and less the university, that if the grandmother smokes... Those things. But it has not entered into what has brought us here, which is the decree, and has not supported with any kind of argument the alleged consequences that it says bring us this decree. I think we have to counter, explaining exactly what it is, the fantasy or misrepresentation that has been attempted to draw, not only here, but in recent weeks, by some political groups, and to analyse the consequences. I think we're going to try to do it rigorously, Mrs. Corrales. If we are to look at our European environment, let us look at the countries with which we have to compare ourselves in the European Union, with the countries of the European Union, the euro... With those. I'll tell you who we're approaching, and who we're closer to now with the four-year system. Look, in the process of adapting higher education systems to Bologna, most countries – and the rest is lies – adopted a flexible system, which is now being proposed by the People's Party Government. A flexible system by which degree degrees can have between 180 and 240 credits (i.e. between three years and four years), to be decided by universities on a voluntary basis, and those of master's degree between 60 and 120 credits (one or two years of master's degree). All countries adopted this flexible model: three or four years of degree, and one or two years of master's degree. All the countries decided that. That was the flexible model. And that it was the universities, in the use, in the exercise of their autonomy, that could decide what model they were going towards. Therefore, most European countries live with these grades of three or four years and with the master's degree of one or two years. On the contrary, Spain, what they now say is that the government is now rushing... No, Spain rushed, and adopted a system, the fastest at that time, according to which grades had to have only 240 credits, and master 60. That is, in Spain it was decided that by decree you can only have degrees of four years and master's degree of one year, and to run. Rigidity, rigidity, and that was absolutely an imposition on universities, against the criteria of those who then asked for flexibility. Hey, CRUE! Who are the CRUE? The rectors? This country needs many reforms: reforming politics, the administration, also the university and the university caste. Look what the CRUE said in 2006; it's very important, because it's very interesting what the Rectors say, today and yesterday, today and yesterday. Do you know why, Mrs. Celaá (I was going to try him on you)? Because most of them are the same. Look what they said: "You could choose...", they said then. Why this thing of having all four-year degrees and one-year master's degree? They then said: "You could choose a more flexible position, in which there were degrees of between 180 and 240 credits. It is not clear that all grades need or should have the same credit burden. We can do what other countries in our environment are doing." Hey, that's what the CRUE said!, which now turns out that the flexible model they were asking for in 2006 doesn't seem right to them now, seems a bit like thought so fast and running. And this was already said by them in 2006, and we have been sharing with public and private universities for two years, with representatives of the sector, and also, above all, trying to know what the consequences and results are in the countries of our environment, what is happening. The four plus one system chosen by Spain is a rarity at European level, Mrs Celaá, Mrs Corrales. Mr. Isasi is in another story, so we can get the competitions here, all of them, and then we'll see if we make four plus one, five plus three or seven plus two. This is another story. But the system four plus one in Europe have it, listen, Cyprus, Turkey... That is, the one you are defending is only being maintained by Cyprus, Turkey, Armenia, Georgia, Greece, Kazakhstan, Russia and Ukraine. Hey, where are the countries around us? Well, everyone with the approach our Government is taking. Who says we're away from Europe? We want to be at the heart of Europe, but what corner of Europe do you want to take us to? Kazakhstan? We are defending what you are currently putting, and also with results on the table, the countries with which we have to compare ourselves in Europe. On the other hand, of course, the whole problem of the Spanish student who wants to access his doctoral studies abroad, which usually most do not want to go to Kazakhstan, will be solved. They want to go to France, England, Italy, Germany... Mrs Celaá says that we should not compare ourselves to Germany. No, no, Well, let's keep comparing ourselves to Kazakhstan. But our students, when they want to get out, then, prefer to do it to these countries that you don't like, because there are liberal governments and so on. Well, there we are going to make things very easy for those who want to do postgraduate studies in Europe, of course in the Europe in which we believe and in the countries that are going to be and that are driving Europe also in the educational results. Spanish students are trained in master's degrees, ladies and gentlemen, if they want to pursue doctoral studies at foreign universities. That is, they are engaged in complementary studies if they want to hold master's degrees there. That is why the internationalization strategy requires us to go this way. The degree degree is the one that allows access to professional life, gentlemen. The levels of education of the university population are not lowered, nor will students be required to take master's degrees. Mrs. Corrales, you're not going to be forced to study a master's degree here. No, no, It will be the universities that will decide which grades can be compressed in three years and which grades have to continue to hold the four years, and in addition 30% of the degrees... Medicine, engineering... all those degrees that come to the head of many "Hey, how this is going to be reduced to three years," those degrees are going to be kept with the credits they have so far. Medicine's got 360, I think. They're not reduced to three years! Engineering degrees, medicine, these degrees aren't reduced. They're not within the decree, they're outside. Hey, we're talking about other things. We are talking about that universities are currently having ahead of them the opportunity that in new degrees, in those degrees where having the student four years in university the only thing that it does is delay their incorporation into the labor market... We're limiting your opportunities. University autonomy is respected, as I said, because this is voluntary, and it will be every university that decides. There are Catalan universities that have said that this has to be done now, that we are going late, that we are on the line in Europe because you Socialists have endeavoured to do this, that is, in 2006, fast and running, and trying to look like Kazakhstan and other countries there. It is a question of making the university offer more flexible, establishing forks between 180 and 240 credits. Universities will be able to establish more suitable degree-master combinations for each degree, and there will be titles in which entry into the labour market and access to employability will necessarily be direct with the degree degree, and there will be other degrees in which universities will understand that they need a one-year master's degree, or there will be others even in which universities will offer (the public universities as well) two-year master's degrees. The public universities, ladies and gentlemen, must also put the batteries in the postgraduate courses, they must know how to compete. Do not continue with this endogamous model of "I like it, I eat it" and this system that Mr.Isasi told me the other day, which affects the Basque university and all Spanish universities. This system of co-optation, which has generated this endogamy in which it is the same ones who choose the teachers, and within the same small groups are generating there some plots, that of that they do know some of those who speak out about castes. Well, let's see if public universities too, with this ability they're going to have to compete at the same level as other European universities... I believe that greater mobility, greater internationalisation will be allowed at this time, and in this case I believe that a more progressive introduction of more labour-market-friendly securities will also be possible. And from the second round, Madam President, I think I will explain that all this would make no sense if the main objective, which has to lead us to try to reform and improve our university system, is to seek greater employability for young people. And I'm going to give you the data, because I don't know how they're going to go in Kazakhstan, but I'm going to tell you that we're far behind in the employability of our university students if we compare ourselves with Italy, Germany, France and England. I don't know, if we compare with Kazakhstan, how we're gonna be, but I'm gonna give you the data in the replica and they're gonna stay... Picked up. [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u121	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Passing the answer shift, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u122	Well, Mr. Oyarzabal, we'll wait for the replica to get stuck. Because really, really (see that I warned you), do not compare us to Germany, listen, because with Germany we have wanted to compare all the time. Since the Lomce, since the arrival of Wert, we are compared with Germany. And with Germany we do not want to compare ourselves in education, among other reasons because at the age of eleven Germany segregates, and "this to vocational training and this to academic teaching", things you want to do. And among other reasons because the German baccalaureate lasts another year, so the titles can last 180 or can be 180 credits. A completely different issue from that of Spanish education, as you should, and you know, know. Therefore, look, you consider education to be a commodity, and this is the problem. Yes, you do! They consider it a commodity, and therefore it is better that the commodity is low cost. "There are too many university students in this country," "There are too many researchers in this country." These are dictions of his Government, and therefore royal decrees: We will issue a royal decree so that there will be fewer universities. He said, "There are ten universities in California." No, look, in California, in the state of California, there are 186 universities. And do you know what this royal decree does? This royal decree what comes to do – so that you don't tell me I'm talking to you about the grandmother who smokes – what comes to do this decree is to thoroughly reform the structure of the titles. Of course, don't mess with those titles that are leading to professions... No, not those! Architecture, engineering and medicine not, of course. These must be safeguarded! Someone has to lead the country, listen! Let us continue to maintain a country of masters and servants. And that's not talking, that's not talking. So, look at you, the credits... Each credit costs about 18 or 45 euros. Do you know how much each master's credit costs? Between 26 and 40 euros. Do you know the proportion of graduate students in private universities? Well, it's 14%. Do you know the proportion of master's students in private universities? In 27%. And private universities want to immediately sign up for the 180-credit degree degrees. They want to sign up. Look, this is a barbarity, a barbarity that once again comes undiagnosed. You can't move, you shouldn't move without a diagnosis in education. It is difficult enough to square the system, as to move without diagnosis. If there is no diagnosis, there can be no dialogue, and if there is no dialogue there can be no consensus. The scheme of degree degrees in the Bologna process in Spain is consistent with a country that had held five-year degrees in front of the four-year bachelor's degree from other European places, most of them. Listen, don't compare us to Kazakhstan or whatever you want to call it, that I don't know if it is or if it is otherwise, because we haven't looked there. Curiously, our model has never been Germany, his yes. Ours has been Finland in education. Ours has been Finland in education! Finland, and other countries. Look at you, the CRUE, in which you will have rectors, I imagine... I imagine the CRUE will not be full of PSOE directors, to speak clearly! But, of course, anyway, if I were, enchanted! That means where the intelligence is. [[Barres]] As a result... It's on the left, it's on the left. He's in Social Democracy. It's on the left. Therefore, let the entire Conference of Rectors come to express the need for a moratorium, listen, something will indicate! It will indicate at least that, after having rearranged your house in a certain way, with 240 credits each title, when they are still being implemented and co-existing with five-year degrees, when there is all this whirlwind, it is up to you overnight to launch a new structural reform on the table. They say, "Hey, look, we're gonna evaluate what's going on. Maybe we need another year at the baccalaureate!". By the way, the proposal that Mr. Wert made at the first sectoral conference that I attended... Yeah, yeah, don't tell me you do. Don't tell me you did, 'cause you took her away right away. And if this was so important to you as to say that the future is actually going through this and the past is going through the other, you're already late, eh!, because you have three televisions left. You are already slow to implant it, when it turns out to be so important, so modern, so contemporary and so egalitarian. Did you know...? I'm going to give you one last piece of data and I'm going to go to my place, just one thing, and this is a recent CIS study also verifiable, also verifiable. Did you know what chances are there for the children of workers to be 19 or 20 years old in college? 20 or 25 percent. Did you know what chances the middle-class or high-class child would stay in college at that age? Seventy-five percent. Today. CIS data. Hey, you're not doing much on equal terms! They're not doing much for equality. And, of course, the proposal that you bring in that royal decree, by the way, published at the beginning of February, on February 2nd of this same year... Therefore, we are in time, no matter how much debate in the race of St. Jerome.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u123	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u124	The proposal you bring is in favour of inequality, and we cannot tolerate that, because education is the future of peoples. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u125	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u126	President of the legislature, good afternoon. Mr Oyre generous, it's true that we talked about it. I'm glad for once you're aware of something besides listening. In this conversation we agreed that the university in Spain was a hierarchy of university, napoleonic, centralized, and rather stiff. I told Mr Oyharland that it was a state of Edogami and the Middle Ages, that it was very stiff to say, very little changed, and that among the models of Europe, among southern colleges, perhaps the reverse of its internal functions. We don't agree. We don't agree to be a monopoly of the state at the university today. That must be changed. Mrs. Chief, you know the university well. And it's not just because we're independent, no, because we want modern college, it's more flexible. To go to the university of Spain today is suffering. It's suffering. It's suffering. And if there is something in new schools that is a novelty, it is elasticity when it offers new appetites. The control here, the control of the state, is contrary to the university and in general to economic development. When Mr. Olives speaks about other countries... A little humility would be convenient. And to see a modesty... I would recommend him to read the Ortega y Gassete book La misión de universidad for a little while. And how he said it was better to work a proper model than a bad copy of the university. The Basque Country is favorable to the cultivation of its own model. We think it should be made more powerful for the possession of our jurisdiction, because if our material tissue is a little different, and it makes it possible to do things that in Spain can be more difficult, we should have to adapt the university to our reality. And we should also use our reality to integrate the university better to our young people in our tissue system, and we should need to develop our own social system. It is true, and I agree with Mr. Oynor, that we must discuss the pattern. On principle, and when we discussed in college, we seriously discussed the chances of three years together with the Catalans. And it is true that during those years the process of transition prevailed, from that five-year-old model of which Mrs. Celaá has mentioned, to that model 4+1, which is not yet closed. We ask for flexibility, elasticity in college. We ask for the rights in our rectification, because it's easier to look at the university. We're asking for our biggest college, the biggest public university, the Basque Country University, because it's in a group with the Aquitania University, and it could be very interesting. The fact is that we have great difficulties from the Basque Country to Acia, because we have incompatibility. And that's why we ask our jurisdictions to be here, in order to make such changes. And we find it silly that a king still has to sign his college titles. That's all, and we'll stick to ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u127	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Corles, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u128	Thank you again, Mrs. President. On the one hand we have Mrs Celaá, who tells us that we must not compare with Germany because the education systems are different, and, well, I can give her the reason. And on the other hand we have Mr Oyarzabal, who tells us that we must compare ourselves, because Germany is applying this three plus two system, and I also have to give him the reason. But, Mr Oyarzabal, I think you should be realistic there, because Germany, it is true that a reference country in university matters, is seeing that with three years the student is not prepared enough to practice the profession, and for that reason it is being valued, it is considering going from three to four years. That is the reality of Germany too. Then, let's compare or not compare, the reality is that. Therefore, let us also take those baseline data to know what is to be applied or not to be applied in Spain. As the Basque Government has already said in its day, this reform is an occurrence and an improvisation, as I said in my first speech. It is changed for change, without having evaluated the previous system and without any orientation. Can you believe that in any system in the world four plus one can be equal to three plus two? For neither economically nor academically can they ever be the same. This reform, which really worries us seriously. In the ministry, the minister is not interested in equality of opportunity or equity. With this reform, injustice and inequity are re-emphasized. He already did it when he took the scholarship from many students who had a grade to enter college. In this case and now deepens the exclusion by re-rejecting from the system those students who cannot afford the master's degree. With this reform, as I said and as we have already repeated a few speakers, professionalization is being extended and intensified. A less transparent system is achieved, Mr Oyarzabal, more opaque. In one university one degree can be three years, and in another of four years the same degree. Instead of obtaining an approval, it becomes the most opaque system. Finally, we can only welcome this initiative, as it reinforces the position adopted by the Basque Government alone in its day, and we therefore call for support for the compromise signed between the Socialist Party and us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u129	Thank you, Miss Corles. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u130	Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if it gives me time to answer. Of course, I believe, Mrs Celaá, that you are not thinking about the students when you come out here to talk. Don't think about the students, don't think about the college students. You're thinking about the rectors, your friends, the directions, the structures, the armchairs, the chauffeurs and all that stuff. For us this reform is for the students, to improve the results and opportunities of the students. Now, of course, there are those who don't want to, there are those who resist. And then there are some who consider this to be good, but if they do, if the PP does, no. The Secretary of University Policy of the Socialist Party of Andalusia supported this agreement at the Sectoral Conference on University Policy. He was later denied by Mrs. Susana Díaz, he was denied, but the secretary of university policy of the Andalusian PSOE initially supported him. Four Catalan universities have already announced that they will surely be the first, in 2016, to program three-year degrees (they are already announcing them). Look... I have to wear my reading glasses, but I do have some data to give you. And you're not from Germany, because you Germany don't like anything. Hey, who was going to tell the PNV that now Germany doesn't like anything, that they prefer to compare with Armenia or Kazakhstan! Look, if you were to run a country as God commands, you would already be in the three plus one or in the three plus two, as all the countries around us have done. But you are simply rebuking what others are doing in Madrid against the policies of the People's Party. But I'm going to talk about employability, which is what I was coming to. And look, employability, in my opinion this is the fundamental issue. If we compare the employability of young people who reach the degree in Spain at this time (last Eurostat data, 59.9% employability), with that of those who reach that degree in the English system, for example... Let's forget about Germany, let's get England out here. Do you like England better? Well, look, if we compare it with English, like French or German, even Italian, we can compare it, we are in a very unfavourable situation. The European average, ladies and gentlemen, the average employability of graduates, which is called those who reach the grade, is 75,5. Here, 59. But we're not going to stare at Germany, we're not going to be the smartest, we're going to stare at England. Well, in England, they're at 82%. And us in '59. Hey, can't we start to look a little more like the French, the English, the Italians, in these things? Because the students, who are not thinking about the comfort of the rectors, want to have more opportunities when they finish their career. They want to have more opportunities, and they want their titles to serve something here and in Europe, not that they're paper wet by the comfort of whether we have to keep to what templates. They want titles that serve here and out of here; they want masters that from the public serve here and out of here, and that compete with the masters that can be taught in private universities. Spanish university students from the public want better opportunities to be able to compete better with private universities, here and out of here. But not with those in Kazakhstan or Armenia: they want to compete with better opportunities where they want to work and where they have opportunities to work. And let's talk about equity, because I can't go on much more business either. Fairness, because you say that the introduction of all this three-year degrees is an attack on equal opportunities, and it is quite the opposite. This is already assessed, is that this has already been implemented since 2006 in other countries, and see if it is contrasted, and now we don't need two more years to... If we have the assessment of the other countries! Look, I'm going to bring you a study published in one of the most prestigious economic journals by two professors at the University of Milan – I'm not going to give you the names of teachers, who are very complicated to read (sirs, this is no joke) – who have studied the impact on the social composition of the student, this of what is filled your mouth with the PP reforms, the social impact on the student of universities, the introduction in Italy of that system, where the only established duration of degrees is that of three years (this is chaos, isn't it?)). And, according to that study, what has happened, I insist, in terms of the social composition of the student, is that the access to university of students with good grades in Secondary Education who start from more unfavourable socio-economic situations has increased by 10%. That is, according to the specialized economic magazine, in Italy the implementation of this system has led to an increase in equity, and this has already been verified in Italy. And we could bring here studies of France, of England, of Germany. Equity is improved, equal opportunities are improved. There's nothing on the family, it's down. It is possible that a gentleman does not have to be in college for four years, when you are sending almost 40% of university students to the street in Spain, without any degree. We want there to be the highest percentage of opportunities for all those who today... 30%, 40% of university students don't get the degree. It's three years, four years, two and a half years rushing through college, and then they go home without getting any degree. Three-year titles that allow them to enter the labour market, powerful and competitive master's degrees at the public university. Job opportunities here and outside, in Europe. Better universities. Changing in Spain, reforming politics, administration, making it more transparent, closer, and also reforming the university and justice is key for this country to move forward. And the left, as you are, that says we have two newscasts left... I don't know how many TVs are left, but look for a place in those CRUE armchairs, which are very comfortable, very soft, and I think they have all kinds of prebends, because I don't know if they have many more left in a few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u131	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. End of discussion, our vote is made by Euskal Socialists and the Middle Amendment signed by Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 69; 70; 10th, 43; the contrary, 27; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u132	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Seventh point of the theme list: "In the first place to discuss the other proposal made by the Euskal parliamentary populars, the aid of birth, and the reduction of labor and family in helping them to join together. Discipline and final resolution. The man who made the proposal is next. Mrs. Quiroga, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Very good afternoon. On different occasions, we have discussed in this House the recent setback of family support policies, as a result of the decisions that the Basque Government has recently taken. On the one hand, the budget cuts to aid for the reconciliation of family life, which is causing people who have been receiving aid for three years...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u134	Silence, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u135	He said that those who are eligible for aid for the reduction of working hours or for the hiring of a person's help for the care of minors or older persons have to wait until the following year to receive such aid. The figures are very clear, and, as far as we have been able to know, in 2013 there were more than 11,000 people who were left without that help, and in 2014 there were up to 16,000. And it has already been announced that the applications that are submitted this year 2015, those that are submitted from the month of April, will not be able to be paid until the year 2016. And how does this affect citizens? Well, the situation is as follows. A family with children or elderly dependants decides to request a reduction in working hours or to hire a helper (by the way, the vast majority of requests for a reduction in working hours are for women). In order to alleviate the economic decline resulting from this decision, they are supported by the assistance established by the Basque Government and recognized in the Family Support Act. And the answer they receive from the Government is that, in fact, they are entitled to such assistance, but that, because there is not enough money, they will not be able to receive that money until the following year. The question, therefore, is which family can cope with this situation for a whole year until they receive the help of the Government. As I say, this situation has been happening, as we know, for three years now. And this last year 2015, despite the announcement – after the approval of the budget and with the support of the Socialist Party – an increase in that item, which we were told was going to be enough to be able to meet the requests of the year 2015, what we are told is that there will only be enough money to meet the requests that there are until April, because, as there are 16,000 pending from the previous year, the budget is obviously short. We have already announced the consequences of this decision, and we have also told the Councilman during a debate here in this House. The consequence is that it will have a deterrent effect, which will reduce the number of applications, as we are already seeing that they are reflecting the data. And this is purely logical, ladies and gentlemen. We can therefore describe this decision by the Basque Government, this decision not to put in a sufficient budget, as a mistake. A mistake we cannot share, of course from the People's Group we do not share. In view of the fact that the budget heading, ladies and gentlemen – and I believe that this is important to reflect and explain this – the heading which covers these aids is an extensionable heading. What does this mean? That, even if the Government establishes a fair line, if it is insufficient it can make the decision to increase it. We are therefore faced with a voluntary decision on the part of this Government not to address the demand for applications for reconciliation of family and working life. If that item is indeed expandable, and there is no legal limitation that prevents the Government from making this decision, our group concludes that what is being attempted here is to square the department's budget from this aid. And it seems to us that it is a scarring decision, because, look, in addition to these cuts in the aid for the reconciliation of family and work life, we were also told by the counselor that the aid per child would also suffer some changes. The change was that, instead of being universal as hitherto, a change in criteria was to be introduced, and from now on such aid is to be given on the basis of income. We were told that this was to benefit the lowest incomes, but, given the numbers, analyzed the situation, we see that the situation is the same, that is, to achieve savings on the part of the government. And we believe that it is a wrong and unfair decision, because we believe that these measures aim at a very important objective, and more so in the Basque Country, which is to stimulate the reconciliation of family and work life, and also because we are an increasingly ageing society and our number of inhabitants has not been changed in recent years, and is becoming an increasingly ageing society. Therefore, it is a problem, as I have heard many times in this forum, structural, it is a problem in which we also have to act at this time so that we can see the consequences in the future, and we can reverse that photograph, those studies that tell us that we are going to a complicated situation. It is clear that this decision, both in terms of reconciling family and working life and in terms of child support, is a decision that harms citizens and benefits the Government, but, as I said to them, it also benefits them in a scarred way, because, as you can see, one goes to the budgets of the Autonomous Community for the year 2015 and finds that the total amount of this support to the family is 59 million. That is to say, within what is the entire budget of the Basque Autonomous Community, I do not think it changes that much. Instead, we know that the effects it is having are negative effects on something that is important to society. And another thing that has also drawn our attention is that when it comes to establishing this change in criterion in child support, which is to move from being universal, as reflected in the Family Support Act, to being rent-based, it has been done in a way..., that we too feel that this Government has not really wanted to enter into a debate, and therefore that is what makes us think that what has been sought is a budgetary adjustment. And why do I say that? Because, look, the Family Support Plan is a plan that expires this year 2015, and I think this issue deserved a debate in this House, precisely a debate in which we could have analysed the results of the plan that is in force now, see exactly what the 2015 picture is, whether or not these aids have worked, whether they need a review, what the Government's approach is, and be able to discuss the next plan, which I imagine will be from 2016. And this has not been done, but by decree this Government has taken the decision to unilaterally amend this which is contained in the Family Support Act. Because the Family Support Act, as I say to you, reflects the principle of universality, but it also states in its article 10.5 that family support policies should be expanded, increased, precisely in order to achieve convergence with Europe in this magical horizon of the year 2020. And that's the one that we think is the way we should go, but because I think that Euskadi also needs it. We must now take steps, as I say to you, to be effective in reversing the situation in which we are, and what we are seeing is a government that is making decisions in the opposite direction, backwards, instead of moving forward. And I think that if we had something clear in this House, and the consensus in the last legislatures has been evident in this matter, it was that, beyond each other's ideological positions, we had a clear objective that we shared and that was precisely what was reflected in that Family Support Act. The People's Party has therefore put forward a non-legislative proposal in which we reject the Government's decision, because we believe it to be wrong and unfair; in which we call for the repeal of these decrees, and in which we also call for, within the framework of the new plan, which we hope will come soon and we can discuss in this House, within that framework of the family support plan, further economic progress, but also with new benefits, with new initiatives in support of the family and the reconciliation of family and work life. With new initiatives, because, in fact, it has often also been said here, it is not only an economic aspect. This is an aspect of family support and the reconciliation of family and work life. Of course there are other measures that equal, or probably, if we were able among all to implement them and there was more will, we would also make much more progress in reconciling family and work life, such as the adequacy of schedules, or any other measure that is also on the table. But I believe that what we should not do in any case is to go back, to go back and square a budget, I insist, that if we put it within the framework of what is the budget of the Basque Autonomous Community we will see that, in the end, 59 million is not so much as to make that decision that is having direct consequences, as I have explained to you, on Basque citizenship. I believe that the figure of 16,000 women who were essentially left out last year without being able to receive this aid seems to me to be important enough for this Government to come forward, reconsider and rectify this decision to be so scarred by aid for the reconciliation of family and working life and also by child aid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u137	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Pick up where we are. Yesterday the Councillor, Mr Toña, said that the effects of labour reform in the Basque Autonomous Community were so negative: it was not only not generating employment, but it was favouring dismissal. And it specifically referred to the negative part in the difficulty of reconciling work and family life. That's what the counselor said yesterday. Families in all forms perform basic and indispensable emotional, educational and relational functions. Therefore, it is the duty of every government to support families by implementing concrete reforms, policies and policies of action designed to advance co-responsibility, reconciliation of family and work life and birth, promoting the extension and consolidation of resources and support services adapted to current needs and new family models. And, of course, economic aid aimed at compensating for the costs of reconciliation of families who see their income reduced by benefiting from surplus or reduced working hours. The PP, from the Government of Spain, has done just the opposite. He has been the first to harm families, imposing health co-payment, scholarship cuts, labour reform, wage cuts, precarious contracts, laminating the Unit Act. All measures that are having very negative effects on families, especially on the most vulnerable. The PP has in no way promoted family and work reconciliation, support for dependent persons, support for persons with disabilities, support for the elderly, and much less support for caregivers and families. The PP has by no means promoted concrete policies of action designed to advance the co-responsibility and reconciliation of family and work life and birth. Mrs Quiroga said that the vast majority of the reduction in working hours is requested by women. And I ask: Why? Why are women asking for a reduction in working hours? Because there is a co-responsibility, there must be a co-responsibility, and that is the word we have to use: co-responsibility in care. Basque society is immersed in a process of population ageing resulting from an increase in life expectancy and a fall in the birth rate, one of the lowest in Europe. The age of emancipation is increasingly late, the cohabitation rate is higher, and there are serious difficulties in reconciling family and work life. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with new challenges that need to be addressed from public policy, and this is not a balad. It is clear that hourly flexibility in the labour market continues to prevail, that there is a wage gap between men and women, that there is a delay in the formation of family units, that there is an unequal distribution of household tasks and care work, and that in order to achieve a real and effective reconciliation, it is necessary to take up and address these new challenges courageously. If we look at Europe, you will realize that the countries with the lowest rates of female unemployment are those with the most developed policies of co-responsibility and reconciliation and of effective integration into the world of work. The Family Support Act 2008 provides the basis for improving the well-being and quality of life of families, paying particular attention to the most vulnerable. It recognizes the importance of family and work reconciliation and the promotion of positive actions in the co-responsibility of men and women, both in the home and in care. The Basque Government has, however, made the opposite point. It is clear that many people who have not been able to receive family and work reconciliation aid since February 2014 because of a shortage of budget credit and because the Basque Government, which claims to be the people's government, did not want to extend an item that is expandable, knowing that this flattened the objective of such aid, which is to compensate economically families who choose to take advantage of a leave of absence or reduction of time for the care of their family members. It is clear that the Basque Government has ignored the agreements of this Parliament. The Basque Government, I say again, has ignored the request of representatives of the platform of people affected by the non-payment of aid for family and work conciliation, who also appeared in this Parliament on 22 December. And the Basque Government has ignored the Ararteko resolution of December 2014, which recommends that the Basque Government maintain the economic level and universality of support for family and work reconciliation and try to increase it in the future; that future family support policies be designed with European standards. The Basque Government has ignored the ESC's recommendations, which do not consider it appropriate to amend the decrees recently adopted by the Basque Government on economic aid to support families with dependent children, and on aid for the reconciliation of family or work life, since they all propose profound changes which could be altering the model of protection for families set out in the 2008 law. The ESC considers a more in-depth discussion of these changes with civil society, social actors, etc., on the basis of an integrated and transparent proposal from the Executive, an issue that has not been raised. In the recently adopted decree on economic aid to support families with children, although they remain subjective rights, they are now subject to economic requirements that lead to a fall in convergence with the European Union 2020. Moreover, according to calculations derived from the data provided in the economic memory, the practice of the expenditure adjustment announced comes to give continuity to what has already been done in fact, at least in the last year. The Basque Socialists show our disagreement with the cuts in aid for the reconciliation of working and family life in the middle of October 2014, and we urge the Government to extend the departure to pay the aid for the reconciliation to all those who met the requirements, as well as to extend the departure in 2015. With our amendments, the Basque Socialists have proposed that the amount of aid for the reconciliation of working and family life should increase from EUR 17.3 million to EUR 31.7 million. However, as Mr Toña has acknowledged, it will not be enough to pay the outstanding amounts for 2014 and all of 2015. Recently, on 16 March, we discussed a GNP in the Committee on Employment and Social Policy at the request of the Socialist Group, and we agreed once again to call on the Government to immediately authorize the economic start-up to deal with the payment of aid for the reconciliation of family and work life in 2014 and to ensure full satisfaction of the 2015 aid applications, provided that they meet the requirements. Today we are debating again in this Parliament a GNP on cuts in birth and work-life reconciliation aid, and the Socialists have wanted to put three important issues into our amendment. First, it is essential that a report be made reflecting, first, this current situation of the configuration of families in the Autonomous Community, detailing levels of income, members of the family unit, number of children or daughters, families in situations of extreme health, disability or dependency, as well as a ratio of resources, services and economic measures to support the Basque families existing in all areas: work, tax, education, health, housing, social services, etc. Secondly, the effective assessment of the implementation of the measures provided for in the III Inter-institutional Plan for Family Support 2014-2015, the impact they have had on the promotion of birth and the possibilities for action to improve the existing protection system and move towards European Union levels. This is very important, and at least the Basque Government has not done so. We don't know him. Secondly, we believe that this Government must make progress on co-responsibility in family care and promote the extension and consolidation of resources and services to support families, as well as economic aid aimed at compensating the costs of reconciliation of families who are declining their income by benefiting from measures to reconcile family and working life, the basic objective of Law 13/2008 on Support for Families, incorporating criteria that allow for fairer distribution and moving towards European standards. Thirdly, we call on the Basque Government to analyse, deepen and develop measures to ensure in the future the mechanisms that will make possible a real and effective reconciliation between working life and childcare obligations, older persons, persons with disabilities or dependency, or in an extremely serious situation, by designing a road map to reach the level of European public policies; which we obviously also ask to be presented to the Committee on Employment and Social Policy before the end of 2015, providing budgetary resources, services and public aid. Our proposals have been reflected in the compromise amendment that we have finally signed with the EH Bildu Group. We must show satisfaction with this agreement reached. And we understand that this is necessary, because the Basque Government has repeatedly failed to comply with its word. It has repeatedly failed to fulfil its word, and our group understands that it is acting behind the backs of this Parliament and of the requests that have actually been agreed here, and, of course, of the demands of civil society and social actors that have been particularly critical with the non-payment of aid in 2014 and with the processing of the new decrees amending aid for children and with the decree of aid for the reconciliation of family and work life. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u138	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u139	Thank you, President. I must start by saying that I share many of the things that have been said by the two groups involved in today's debate. Interesting things have been said, which UPyD actually also shares. But I would like to explain very briefly why we are going to vote against the initiative put forward by the Group of the European People's Party and why we are going to defend our amendment. The fact is that what the Group of the European People's Party proposes with its initiative is that the level of income of potential beneficiaries should not be taken into account in granting such aid. Let us say that this is the fundamental basis of the initiative proposed by the People's Group, beyond criticizing the cuts promoted by this government. With regard to the cuts promoted by this Government, we share this complaint with the People's Party and the rest of the groups. We are against this government-driven cutbacks. Because, in fact, cuts have been made and are obvious, and have been denounced on previous occasions by this Parliament. And there have been further cuts in the adoption of this last decree that this Government has adopted. There have been cuts, as I will later prove, if we look at the specific data. That is why we are basically voting against the initiative of the People's Group. We believe that the level of income of potential beneficiaries must be taken into account, it must be taken into account when granting aid for the reconciliation of working and family life and when granting support for children. We must bear this in mind, this is a progressive policy, and we obviously share that idea. That is why we are going to vote for the initiative put forward by the PP, beyond the fact that we share point 3 of this initiative. We will therefore vote in favour of what our amendment says. What does our amendment say? We propose that this Parliament reject the decision of the Basque Government to cut back on the birth and reconciliation of working and family life, including delays that we have or have been denouncing over the last few months in this Parliament. We urge the Government to amend the decree on financial support for families with dependent children and the decree amending aid for the reconciliation of family and working life, so that, while maintaining the criterion of applying the standard family income levels, maintaining that criterion or that idea, such aid is extended in order to ensure that the objectives for which it was designed are met, as well as that all persons who meet the requirements laid down can opt for them. What cannot be done is that the Government, on the excuse that it introduces a more progressive approach, with that excuse, what it then proposes are cuts in aid, as is actually proposed and done. In the third point, we propose to urge the Government to design a comprehensive strategy for adapting to demographic change and renewal, integrating aid for reconciliation, dependency, child support and any other measures that are necessary to promote this process of adaptation and renewal. Such a strategy should take into account its inclusion in the national and international framework. If we compare the model we had before with what is now being proposed by this Government, we clearly conclude that there has been a cut, as I suppose the Basque Nationalist group and the adviser himself will be able to recognize without any problem. As far as child support is concerned, as far as first child support is concerned, there has been no change so far; however, as far as the second child is concerned, although it is true that aid is increased for those persons, those families with incomes below EUR 20,000 (there is an increase, although a slight increase), for families or beneficiaries with incomes above EUR 20,000 and for beneficiaries with incomes above EUR 30,000 there is a reduction. And, of course, we do not think that child support should be reduced to beneficiaries with an annual income of EUR 20,000. It seems to us that this is an unfair situation. Therefore, progressiveness could have been introduced, but without this implying cuts for certain groups. As far as third-child aid is concerned, this is similar: for beneficiaries with incomes below EUR 20,000, there is no difference (here there is no difference, there is no increase); however, for beneficiaries with incomes above EUR 20,000 and for beneficiaries with incomes above EUR 30,000, there is a clear reduction. Therefore, the global drawing is that cuts are actually being made. Although birth-incentive policies should be targeted at all groups regardless of their income, child financial support should be targeted, in our view, preferably at lower incomes, since, although there may be disincentives to have a child in all income strata, impediments related to the economic situation of families affect particularly, of course, lower incomes. Family policies must therefore be directed at society as a whole, but economic aid must be directed especially at people with lower incomes. This is the approach we take. We note as positive changes that the amounts of aid are doubled if the person giving rise to the financial aid has recognised a disability of 33 % or more or a situation of recognized dependence, and that in the case of the aid for conciliation the age of the son or daughter allowing access to economic aid for reduction of hours is extended from eight to twelve years. This does seem right to us, this I have pointed out does seem right to us. It is a good thing that the aid is geared towards income and that the periods are extended and that aid is doubled in situations of disability; however, it seems intolerable to us that the aid which is increased on the one hand should be substantially reduced, especially, as I said, in the case of aid per second child and third child in the income tranche of between EUR 20,000 and EUR 30,000. In the same way that there should be a greater differentiation, because obviously it is not the same thing to charge 20,000 as 30,000, and let's not say 30,001 euros as 90,000. Therefore, we would also call for greater progressivity. Finally, these are, therefore, the reasons why we maintain our amendment and will vote in favour of our amendment. Let's take the rent into account, that's fine with us. Taking advantage of these changes introduced to take account of income, to then introduce cuts, seems to us wrong. That is why we denounce the cuts made by the Basque Government in this area, and that is why we do not share the initiative put forward by the Group of the European People's Party. And in relation to the transactional signed between EH Bildu and the Socialist Group I have to say that the Socialist Group has not tried to reach any kind of transactional with UPyD, so I understand that these two groups have the sufficient votes to get their initiative approved. In any case, we will vote on our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u140	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u141	Good afternoon. For the last few months, and here today, we have often talked about means of contact, care, and employment, as well as friends to be received as family politics, or children. A month ago, from this tribe, there was mentioned in the same way that another proposal was received, as well as the Empedeu. The politicalities of the community are very important to the multitude, and, indeed, to thousands and thousands of people. And if it's a starting-point, first I have to say that we don't agree, we don't share what's happening, that we don't agree with that policy of reductions. On the one hand, we have the restrictions which have been reduced to keeping the watchwork and employment which are to be discussed over and over the last few months. My decision to make 2014 is a direct witness. The Parliament required that all the demands should be fulfilled, put to it in 2014, but did not do so, and left 70% of the demands as has been said before, and the consequence has been that thousands of people have been exposed to it. 16,000 people, especially women, have left what they were supposed to receive in 2014. But to refuse to pay the 2014, and to show that the regulation was changed, has another effect, even what we mentioned before. Since it has been known, many of them are impossible to ask for help, few are not required, to renounce this right, has been owing to the uncertainty of the aids they receive. So, if you're looking for a reduction of the number of petitioners, maybe that's the goal. According to the data we've known, there have been less than 15% of the year before, and if we compare 2010 with the year, the situation is still more serious, because only half of them have asked for it. If there were more than 48,000 demand in 2010, 2014. 35,000-360,000 a year. There will be different reasons for reasoning and following this in the descent of the demands; we are sure it has not been the effect of a single reason. On the one hand, unemployment, the forms of labour, the effects of this state of work under the conditions of work, and the facility of evading workers, will probably have much to do with this or that demand being lowered. But, as has been said, it is one of these other reasons whether want and uncertainty are not sufficient to help or not to know whether money is sufficient or not. And so it has been remarked, not only by us, but by Joseph Louis Madranzo, the headmaster of the Polia family, said, "A few days ago, at least, in some media: "Las family family habersea visto desincentivadas al pensar que el haecho de haberse agontado el crodito signa que no seban a payr más ayudas." And this really seems to us to be serious and serious to us, if it is so. And what has been said is not very little, and the new decree has been accepted by funk, which we had known on March 17th, and almost the only thing that is changed in those decrees is that the rent is standardized when we receive these helps. And from our point of view, it's only the measures we're taking to continue with pretty restrictions at the moment. Besides, instead of seeking real reflection, discussion, and agreement, they are decisions that are committed by decrees, and we do not agree. We shall here, I know, hear here that the assistance received for the children are subjective rights, and therefore that the decision taken is not related to the restrictions, but that the end is to divide the money which is present in a more just manner. That's just what we've been reading about yesterday or yesterday at the head of the Pombo wards. He would say: "It's a problem for curiso que se diga que se there they are recortes, porque para superlción el efecto de estos campbios es neutral, nomos baudo nada del presupuesto de las ayudas." And it's not true, it's just not true. I'll mention a number and leave it here. In the budgets, there were 28 million or more in 2014, in 2015, this quantity has been less than 1,6 million dollars in budgets of 2015 than 2014. It will be a subjective right, but if what is foreseen is less money, at least it is significant for us. And if after that there are changes of this kind and such decrees applied, then still more significant. And again, we're not on this or what he's doing, we don't share it. We believe that these policies do not go well, and that we are far from being prepared with the average situation in Europe, service, and family police. As it is always considered that there are many family models, and that all must be made up of those policies which all agree to. We have often said that in these politics, and in the measures to which we ought to take, we ought not only to limit them to suit. And I shall repeat, as has been said, that in these politics the criterion of equality must be indispensable, we shall not tire of repeating it over and over again. And from our point of view, I repeat, this isn't what it's doing today. And from the point of view of equality the situation has been mentioned before, and it is disturbing, because we know why women are chiefly asking for these measures, and we know also some reasons: social care is still upon women, and besides, women in the work-world have fewer wages, and the care of care has not the social regeneration they ought to possess, and it is not even considered as the duty of all of them that the world and our society are absolutely necessary. Most of the time, women don't do this because of a free choice, but they're forced to do it in a certain degree, and they often break their professional career. And we must also say that when other people are hired, there are also scholarships, that a woman is hired, and for the most part in very improper conditions. And this has to come too. And it is also necessary to transform the work world. I've mentioned work hours here before, and so on. But, as I said, we must all begin to understand what the social value of care is. Without care our society wouldn't function, it wouldn't live in everyday life. And even for this purpose, we find it necessary to have strong and high-quality public services, which we do not now, from our point of view. And we've just said that family politics need to be reinforced over and over again, and that what's done is using a standardized income, it's not the way and size to take from our point of view at this moment. Changing the preparation that is received for the children is not what was to be done nowadays. Those who wish to be children must have more global measures, and we must establish them, and we must go deep in them, and thus we shall probably succeed in improving our birth. I won't be long. First of all, members of the Socialist Party that has spoken before me, we've agreed to a middle course. I mean that this middle course was already agreed with Popular Party. Popular party didn't sign at the last minute. I shall not be able to account for this state, but what I have received here was, until now, agreed between the three parties. I don't know right now.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Eubertarians. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good afternoons. We now propose, as it were, to assist the offspring of the Popula Party, and to assist them in obliging them to join together. We have often spoken of this subject, as the representatives of other groups have said: the question was either verbal, writing, interpenetrations, or any other proposition and legal proposition in the legislature. P.P. in his discourses has often repeated restrictions and the uninteresting interest of government with his family. But a lie never becomes true, Mrs. Quiroga. We will make a brief reference to the various debates in this regard, because, in our view, they are all related, and other representatives who have preceded me have also done so. It is true that there was a delay in the payment of the 2014 conciliation aid applications for the exhaustion of the summer budget line. I insist, a delay that has been intended to be corrected by increasing the allocation for this purpose in the current year's budgets, from EUR 17 million in 2014 to EUR 31 million in 2015 for this same concept. And I know you're gonna say this, and I was prepared, and you said it wasn't enough for 2015. But the Eubertarian patriots have a clear engagement with their fellow-friends who unite their family and work. Our spokesman, Mr. Egibar, publicly said he was sure that this year he'd face all the helpmen. And the chief physician of Toña, who declared that he would seek under the stones, if necessary, to pay 2015 for all the subsidies which contribute to his family and his work. year (s). We are convinced that it will be possible to pay for all applications for aid for the reconciliation of family and work life which are submitted in 2015 within the time limit laid down in the regulations governing them, mainly for a number of reasons. One, because there is a clear political will on the part of the Basque Government, already expressed in the increase for this item in the budgets of this year over the previous year. Two, because, as you all know, economic forecasts allow us to look more optimisticly into the future, and the department is clear that this improvement must reflect on people's well-being. And three, because people, all people, are the axis that focuses all policies of the Basque Government. As we have said on several occasions, the department headed by Councillor Toña is immersed in a deep reflection, whose conclusions should focus on alleviating the very low birth rate in Euskadi and helping people to reconcile family and work life, which can not only focus on the provision of economic aid, in our view. To this end, the family policies implemented by the countries of our environment are also being examined, so that, to the extent possible, we can approach those that give them greater and better protection. With regard to point 1 of the original initiative, let us deny the greatest, Mrs Quiroga: there have been no cuts, even though they repeat it to the point of satiety, and it is uncertain that its universal character will not be maintained. Before I explain to you the amendment that the Government has intended, I would remind you that those places where the People's Party is governed, even with an absolute majority, do not have any measure of support for work and family reconciliation comparable to that in Euskadi. You lack the truth when you say that the government intends to remove the universal nature of these aids. The government, with very good judgment, is seeking a fairer, fairer and more supportive distribution of such aid (Mr. Maneiro has also spoken in this regard), to help those who have less. Is it wrong to give more to those who have less? Is it wrong to make a fairer, more supportive and fairer distribution of aid for the reconciliation of family and working life? Because his colleague, Mr Maroto – who is not at the moment –, referring to social policies, said that public administrations have an obligation to guarantee and improve them, always acting for the benefit of people who really need it and have an economic and personal situation that requires immediate support. That is precisely what the Government wants to do with the amendment of the conciliation aid decree: to help and support those who need it most. If the People's Party says so, is it okay, and if the Basque Government does so, is it wrong, Mrs Quiroga? The largest change is related to the standardized family income. The whole line of assisting families will be regulated by the standardization system of the family revenue. This request was made by you as well as you know, in the course of the years, by a large number of family associations, as it seems to be more fair. Standardized on the income system means: not only according to the number of members of the income family unit, but also to apply the equivalents of breeding according to the composition of this unit, considering that the amount of income in proportion to the capacity of purchase and the degree of life does not give the same financial power to the domestic units of distinct composition. It is clear that, in terms of purchasing power and standard of living, the same level of income does not offer the same economic capacity to family units with different compositions. That is why we understand that it is important to apply standardized family income to all lines of economic support to families. It is a measure of justice, which has been claimed by several family organizations in the past. Since the measure adopted by the Government seeks greater social cohesion, we will not support the second point of the original initiative, nor the first point of the original initiative of EH Bildu, which was in the same direction, or at least very similar. With regard to the third, we have made it quite clear that the Government is carrying out a thorough review of the current situation, and the conclusions drawn will serve as the basis for the Basque strategy of support for families and of support for birth to which you referred, Mrs Quiroga, which was so important to promote, and which will, of course, be duly presented after consensus with experts and other institutions. He's working in the government. Therefore, the Social Party is the first and second of its corrections. We were ready to accept what he asks for at all points, and we informed him that he's doing it because he's ready to explain the data he's tested in Parliament, just like the socialists asked for. As to the third point of the social correction of the Socialists in October, on the 16th of October, the Committee of Police and Society, as has been said, is the same received, which Collect unites to the second point of its correction. And in consistency, our purpose was also to abstain from them this evening. First of all, we don't understand why a point is agreed to discuss again. Did he come to the whole company in order to change what was approved? On the other hand, as we said on the board, the Eukon Christmas engagement is very clear and everything's going on with the family, just to make a general move, not just based on money friends. But it's impossible, if we're going to be serious, to have the resources of the budget ready for the end of the year. We are prepared to step forward to the most advanced nations in Europe, but things cannot be done from one day to another, as you know, by the representatives of all the sects of government. We think you're fully involved in the election campaign. And though you're making progress in preparing the general euphoric strategy around the family, you're also criticizing it. A change has been proposed in the communions, in order to obtain a fairer division, for those of the least, and you against them. They are trying to sell that everything the Basque Government is doing is wrong, in this case family policy, but I would like them to explain why they feel that the standardized family income should not be applied to conciliation aid, when what they are trying to do is give more to those who have less, a way of achieving a more cohesive and just society. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing the answer shift, representing the Basque Potula Group. Madam Quiroga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u145	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Egibar is not here, but, according to what Mrs Arregi has said, we can be calm, because it seems that Mr Egibar assures us that aid for the reconciliation of family and working life will be paid this year. It seems to me that we must be much more serious in these debates, especially because, Mrs Arregi, I am also sure that you are uncomfortable in this position. Why? Because the arguments you've used here are also arguments that don't even fit the truth. Because he told us there were delays in 2014. That is not true, because the letter sent to the applicants for such aid does not tell them that there is a delay, but that they will not be able to pay the aid in that year because there is no budget. And it's not just 2014: in 2014 there were 16,000 people left without help; in 2013 there were 11,000. That is why there is a backlog which clearly makes this budget insufficient to meet requests. And, having said that, they're going to allow me a minute of relief. Why am I saying this? Because, listening to Mrs Sarasua in this rostrum be so worried and so outraged because the money from helping family and work reconciliation does not come, and saying that it is a breach of the Basque Government... We could avoid this situation if you had supported the reform of the Family Support Act and had made this aid a subjective right. It is a pity that it has not been done and that we could not even have had the opportunity to debate, because you all used the explanations of vote, except Mr Maneiro (that is why he was all saying), but we would not really be discussing this at this time because we would have guaranteed it. Just as child support is a subjective right, and as such it is universal. And if you want to change that, Mr. Maneiro, which is in your right, you, or the group that supports the Government, or the Government itself, to bring about an amendment to the Family Support Act, that you do so, and that instead of being universal, they are based on income. But if you are going to change that criterion that is established by law, what you should do is change the law, not by decree. They basically do so because they do not have a majority in this House, and they do not want to go into that debate because they might lose it. But with all this, ladies and gentlemen, we're talking about quantities that... It's just that we're talking about a few... How much can the Basque Government really be saving with this decision? Adjusting the department's budget, affecting a policy that will indeed have to be expanded, that there are other measures to reconcile family and work life, and certainly others that also encourage birth, but this is one that existed and that had a cost that is also not something that, in the end, breaks the budget of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. What happens is there's a will that I can't understand. At this point, believe me, I listen to the counselor and I have listened to you, and I am still not able to understand how such an unjust, so scarring decision has been made and, let me also, so clumsy about family support policies. And you, if you want, put me in comparison with the rest of the autonomous communities, put me in comparison with whoever you want, but the reality is that you have made a decision that is not understood today. And we're talking about the reconciliation of family and work life, and Mrs. Sarasua tells me, "Why are they all women?", as if I were to blame for being all women. No! No! It is a reality: for today, the 21st century, the year 2015, it is mostly women who have to give up their professional career in order to dedicate themselves to the care of children. Do we like it? No, no, Would we like to change it? Yeah. But either we change it by protecting women, or no one's going to change it. And if we do not turn it into a subjective right, as we brought this initiative here, we see that we are at the dawn of what the Basque Government decides at every moment. And those women who see themselves in the need (or not, I don't know) to have to reduce the time, or to have to leave, or to have to hire a person, turn out to be doubly penalized, because from this administration they are not guaranteed to receive at least that help. That is why I regret that in debates like these, in which women should unite above party positions, they prefer to come here to confront the People's Party with labour reform, cuts in what, or I don't know how many things, because in the meantime what is going to happen is that this is still unsolved. And much more so when it is you who have allowed that budget to be approved, which is clearly insufficient. But, as I believe it would not be consistent with what I am saying here, what I do not want is to put more fire on the positions we have held lately, and I agree with the agreement that the People's Party is actually going to support that compromise amendment in which it has also participated, which we would have liked, in a situation of absolute normality, to have signed. I wish someday that could happen. In the meantime...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u146	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u147	... I am left with the decision – thank you, Madam President, I will soon finish – by the decision, I hope, of this House, to reject a measure that seems unfair and scarring to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. Basque Socialists represent the team. Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u149	Yeah. Mrs Quiroga, you understand that you blame us that everything that happens is because the Socialist Party did not support a proposal you made to turn aid into a subjective right. That debate took place, and we have already explained it. And I want to explain one thing: it is one thing to reconcile, and another is co-responsibility. It's two different words. And one of the things you have to understand, and that's why I asked you the question – that I asked you the question for an affirmation you've made , is that we understand that equality and co-responsibility are fundamental in care, because it is also good for families. And that is where we have to focus, in public policies to support work and family reconciliation and contribute to co-responsibility. And obviously the labour reform has been negative, because it has greatly harmed women, as there is a wage gap, and often the conditions also influence decisions. Because obviously, in a situation of economic crisis, with the circumstances that have been given and with the cuts that have been made, and how it is affecting families in dependence, in the area of health, in the fields of social policy, in the end, that is why we are here. And you did not support a modification that the Socialist Party proposed so that in the ESA decree too, as soon as the crisis situation occurred, it would be compulsory to cover all aid. So, everyone has their positions. We're still defending the same thing. In any case, I have bothered to review the electoral programmes of all parties, and you in yours, indeed, speak of the family, which is the foundation of society; you speak of the economic crisis, which is causing the family to move forward today requires great efforts, that unemployment has been brought into the Basque homes, and that you have the challenge of taking forward your children and that on many occasions you cannot even afford mortgage, light and water. As for active support for families, they speak of special consideration for large families and single-parent families. Here they talk about strengthening coordination systems between public administrations and social organizations in assisting individuals and families who are especially at risk of social exclusion and poverty. And here they talk about the protection of motherhood, the rationalization and flexibility of working hours in companies and workplaces, automatic revaluation of the CPI in each year of child support, etc. I in this programme do not see you talking at any time of conciliation, of aid for the reconciliation of working and family life. And I've read it whole, I assure you. As far as the Basque Nationalist Party is concerned, what is happening is happening, and, if not, you get into the profile that has created the platform of people affected by the defaults of conciliation aid, which there is everything explained. And, well, yes, you are immersed in a deep reflection, and hard, and hard, and hard, and hard... That deep reflection, for when will it come? I think the problem is already. It was already last year, it was already in 2013. Therefore, you already have a time of legislature. And I think we need to talk about the things that you've done wrong. And I don't think Mrs Arregi is uncomfortable at all. That is the policy of the Basque Government, the policy for which the Government of the People is committed, and the Basque Nationalist Government. Look, this is a resolution that one person has sent me, and a few more. This resolution is from an aid request in early February 2014. On July 29, 2014, it already puts "favorable resolution". The payment order that this government sends... are two payment orders, it has paid double: on March 18 this year and on March 25 this year. And then they've received a letter demanding an improper collection from them. All this is happening, and the April grants are being paid for today. All this is accounted for by this platform, which is very serious people, who work, who want to reconcile, but who is upset, who is upset and who needs help. And another of the questions I want to ask is whether you have wondered who are the families that are receiving the help. Because it's good to know where we're coming from and where we're going! What are these families going to stay, inside or outside with the new decree? I have the answer, but I would like the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party to answer it. Because you, who are the government of people, I do not know if you are realizing that your policies are affecting people, and that those people you are affecting cannot come here, to this House, but you do come to the committees and count. So, here they have come, they have appeared, and they have told us what their situation is. I understand that you will have listened to them, just like us, so... Of course Mr. Egibar has guaranteed on the radio that that will be paid! Yeah, yeah, he's committed. But let us see if it is a word from Mr Egibar that the Basque Government has to comply with. Because here the PNV will also have to put on batteries, because what is happening is that this issue is already falling too low. Mr Toña, I ask you to reflect, and understand that conciliation policies are important, but also public policies in order to achieve the increase in birth, which is a problem that we, Basque society, have, that we are getting older and need generational relief. So, do that thinking, and if you're wrong... it's human to miss. It is also human to blame others, but we are going to say here what we believe needs to be done, and I hope you will reflect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u150	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. Missa-UPyD, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u151	Yes, President. Finally, I join the other opposition groups, and I will vote in favour of the compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u152	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u153	I'll try to make it short. First, you're telling us that PNV's making a deep reflection, and that's what we've known through the media, and it's been a long time since the Sub-Pubs of Aburtos said the same thing. So why do these decrees come now? Isn't that better to think about it? To speak, to dispute, to agree, and then we shall see what is to be done. We alone, I have said, and we only see a meaning to the fact that these decrees have been made today, that they have changed their income, and that they have a standardized income, and that's the budget, and that's all. Because otherwise we don't understand it, it makes sense if you're thinking about it, you know, if you're thinking about it, you're making the changes you have to make from reflection, and at least in a way you can, and that's not reality. And at the very end of the middle, it's a date we put on it after all. What we agree, we must reflect, and not only reflect, but agree as I have said. And for example, we all know that there are many opinions about the standardized income of which you are speaking, they have also come to the legislature to make a number of appearances, each to put his opinions on the table. Well, let's discuss it. Let's open that discussion. Let's not do this complicated thing by decrees. That's why we're talking about prepending in a way. On the other hand, we have already mentioned that a few weeks ago a proposition of the same nature as the Empeduary Committee had been accepted. Another legal proposal that's important from our point of view and that's what we're expecting in this case to do. That's what it's said in June to pay for all the demands of 2014. On the other hand, it is said to answer all requests in 2015, and therefore to give them all these helps. And at the very last point, what Mrs. Argrei used to say, is that which now resembles in the middle of the fourth. Why did we bring him here? Because we're talking about the same thing. And as we've seen, it's not often said, that's what happened to the one you've accepted in October 2014, maybe a second time approved, it'll be easier for you to fill the heads of the Toñas that you've asked for. I don't know if it's an argument or not. And on the other hand, I mean that, in the end, we need more money here too, we must consider that it is to invest in family and pretty families, an investment, and that requires the means of putting the resources on the table. In the middle of today, what has been added to what has been said above and for us is the most important thing, and it is to say that we don't agree with the decrees that agreed on, and that we ask you to leave him there, to make a few new things, and to do them after that reflection and share them. And that's what we want to ask him today. And of course there are other points in the middle, which seem to us right: To make a evaluation, bring this evaluation here, and put more money and more resources on the table as I mentioned before. And one last thing to the Popular Party. Signora Quiroga, I don't know how to express it, when the subject is really interested, agrees with the Popular, and this was not the first time, he's done it before. If he hasn't done it today, there will be other reasons. But if that's the case, you're less hypocrisy. After all, an appeal to consent makes no sense at all. However, it's not really our main problem, it's yours, it's yours, it's yours to settle, and we'll make our way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. And to finish, Mrs. Argree has her word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u155	Thank you again, Mr. congressman. As I said in my first speech, what is meant by amending the decrees is to achieve a more just and supportive system, which achieves greater cohesion and which benefits society as a whole. Is it wrong to achieve a fairer, more supportive and fairer distribution of conciliation aid? Does giving more to those who have less feel bad, too? Because I have not been answered any of the questions I asked you in the first speech. People who apply for conciliation aid usually have average or high incomes, people who have less are left out, and that is why we also believed that the amendments to the decrees were necessary.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u156	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u157	The measures taken by the Basque Government aim to help precisely those in whose economic situation they may be conditioned, not so much to have a first child, but to have a second or subsequent child, or to request a reduction or an exemption. With regard to the small debate between the Socialist Party and the People's Party on why most of the surpluses and day-time reductions are requested by women, I would like to remind you that the Ibarretxe Government introduced a measure of positive discrimination, which it was doing to pay more when the requests for reduction or time-out were made by men rather than women. And the socialist government of Patxi López, with the invaluable help of the People's Party, as it arrived, left these aids with no effect. I must tell the Socialist Party, Mrs Sarasua, that, man, one of the points in the transactional talks about putting more money into this game. I remind you that you approved with the Basque Nationalist Party the budgets for this year 2015. So, it's at least a little incongruous that you're asking us that right now. And he made reference to 2014, but it is that in 2014 we were already with the 2014 budget, which you had not approved. But this one from the 15th yes. Therefore, they are asking us now in May, almost in May, in April, an increase, so the truth is that it is totally incongruous. In a previous debate we had in this rostrum you argued that the decrees are the power of the Government, that their approval is the sole and exclusive competence of the Executive. Therefore, the truth is that I do not understand that he is coming here now, in this transaction he has signed with EH Bildu and that they are going to support the rest of the opposition parties, to ask for their rejection and reworking. The truth is, I don't get it very well. And then he devoted an important part of his speech to reading his amendment to the whole, which was later modified by the transactional. And he spoke – and these are his words – of very important aspects, and read what they had reflected in his amendment to the whole, detailing the level of income and members of the family unit, the number of sons and daughters, families in situations of extreme health severity, disability or dependency..., and continued. But none of this, which seemed so important to you according to what you have said here, has been reflected in the compromise amendment. And we are even more surprised, because you know, and we had communicated it publicly, that we had told you and we also said it in the first speech, that we were prepared to support that point of your amendment as a whole. Therefore, we do not understand that, if it was so important, I did not include it in the transactional when I had made sure that such an important part of your amendment could come out. Mrs Quiroga was talking about what we had done, that the government had made an amendment by decree because it did not have a majority in this Parliament. For you, Mrs Quiroga, representative of the People's Party, tell me about the decrees, to which Mr Mariano Rajoy, the decrees, every Friday, has us so used, that you almost escape the word, the decree, when you also have absolute majority... I don't think it's a majority problem. The Government has made this change because it believes that it is the most just and supportive way of distributing aid for the reconciliation of family and work life. And then they didn't sign the amendment. That's already your problem (of EH Bildu, of PP), but the truth is that we don't understand. It seems to us a simple paripé not to sign an amendment that you have been agreeing on and which also takes up several of the points of your original initiative. Therefore, of course, it does not seem to us to be at least an exercise of transparency with respect to the rest of the groups or anything. A true paripé, which the only thing you are looking for I suppose is reedited before your constituents, as I said before, in this pre-campaign period. And you've been dealing with the budget for a long time. I don't have the facts here, you've had the exact facts, but I just want to stress one little thing on this point: that you've signed intermediate corrections with the Social Party, and that they also accepted the budget, 2015. I'm telling you what I don't know whether you forgot or not. After all, what's happening here, and many other representatives from EAJ-PNV have said today, that we're entirely involved in the press, and that your only intention is to leave the government and the senior party of the Eucomits alone, and to do things or not do, the review is everything and we don't agree with anything. And as for standardized income, it's a concept in the law, not made up of this government, and as I said in the first round, many associations have demanded to apply it for years when there are economic contributions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of another proposal like the Basque Potula group. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 68; the votes given, 69; the supporters 8; the opponents are 61; white, 0; abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u159	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we vote for the middle-term correction signed by the Basque Socialists and the EH Collect. We can vote. (stopping)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-04-16.u160	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. I have read you an institutional expression: "The slaughter of the people of Syria. "On September 24th, 2015, it will be the last of the centuries when the massacre of the Armenians began. The massacres committed by the chiefs of the Otoman Empire were killed by more than 1,5 million people and caused mass deportations. This disaster, which happened in the text of the World War, was one of the most formidable genocidiums in modern history of mankind. Many of them had to escape to European Union. "The Government of the Turkia, regardless of the demand made by the international community, has not yet officially acknowledged this historical cruelty, which is deliberately organized, as a plan for genozidium against the Armenian people. Nevertheless, we must positively appreciate the efforts of the rulers of the Turkish Republic, President Erdogan and of the Prime Minister Davutoglu. For this reason he has given his condolences to the families of the victims, and has confessed to them the indiscreet violence committed against the Armenians. "We consider that memory, recognition and justice are vital foundations for progressively building future coexistence between these two peoples, so we understand that lasting reconciliation involves a substantially shared truth and memory. We therefore believe that there is a need for a frank and sincere dialogue between the authorities of the Republics of Turkey and Armenia in order to build a common future that will enable this tragic chapter of history to be definitively and healthyly closed. "In this regard, we advocate that this centenary should be a catalyst for the rebooting of the so-called Zurich protocols, inaugurated in 2009, which constituted an essay to resume diplomatic relations between the two nations and which was frustrated a year later by the disparate visions of their historical relations. The law of Eus seems to strengthen the meaning of this past memory, and it unites itself to the events which are to be found in the 24th of April, 2015, in Ervan, Armenia. Thus they join together to the homage and alliance of the relatives of the victims of the country of Armenia, who are still suffering from the slaughter of their masters. "After all, the Basque Parliament joins international expressions and resolutions, especially those of the European Parliament, asking the Republic of Turkey to acknowledge the genocidium made by the Armenian people. He also calls for the reconciliation of these two nations, founded on a shared memory." I feel like an entire meeting is over. It was six o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-nine.
