ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. As a matter of fact, we'll call our colleague David Lachaga Ugartha. [[It's in.]] Remember the new Houseland has a delegate for votes. First point in theme list: "Greetings of his charges." Following the article 3/1985 of February, which creates and regulates the organization, the interrogation of the 3/1985 law, the intermediary will be taken in the whole assembly of the legislature, and will swear or give the word. Next, on account of the nomination, and on account of this office, the secretarys of the table will read the agreement which the whole meeting has agreed to name Mr. Lezertua, published in the magazine of the Basque Country Authority.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u1	The Euscal parliament has named Manuel Lezerta Rodríguez at the rendezvous made on the 28th of May, 2015, in the second paragraph of the 2nd article of the 2nd law of February, which creates and regulates the Greek organization.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u2	The plenary session of Parliament, held on 28 May 2015, in accordance with Article 2(2) of Law 3/1985 of 27 February, establishing and regulating the institution of Ararteko, appointed Mr. Manuel Lezertua Rodríguez as Ararteko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u3	When I take this charge in the service of Euscadi, I promise that I will obey the duties of duty according to their faith and their laws. I promise to fulfil with loyalty and in accordance with the laws the obligations of the office I assume in the service of Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u4	Second point on the subject list: "Excellent of the Society, Society, and Housing Committee, made upon the bill of the House. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. González, a member of the Basque Socialists, has been appointed to present the investigation. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u5	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. Today finally comes to this plenary, to station terminus, the legislative procedure to approve the housing law. It has been a long journey, in which for moments we did not see the day on which we could end up adopting this law, a law that in its moment we promoted the socialists, two years ago it was taken into consideration, and that is why the time elapsed. It would not have been possible then if it had not counted from the outset on the favourable vote of Euskal Herria Bildu and Union, Progress and Democracy. From the very beginning, the contribution and collaboration of both groups in the delivery of this law has been shown to be essential. Therefore, from here I would like to express my appreciation and gratitude to both groups for their contributions and for promoting the birth, as I say, of this law. To a large extent, this prolongation over time has been presided over by a dilatory atmosphere which has tried to prevent this law from reaching this point in one way or another, and which has also reached this point. On this journey we have seen clearly the phobia that liberal thinking has to the realization of rights. For the right-wings, the rights are mere jaculatory ones that serve only to be invoked, to appeal to them, but when the time comes for their realization, the time to guarantee it, there appear the problems, and this is the case. The housing law that we intend to pass today begins by declaring the subjective right to housing. There's no greater concretion. On subjective law one can speak as much as one wants, but the law that we are going to approve here resolves any discrepancy, any dissent, any conjecture, and clearly raises the application of subjective law. And this statement of subjective law is the one that puts in concrete terms the Basque Government, which has at all times shown its discrepancy..., is what makes it launch that distressing call from SOS international, saying that this poses nothing less than an effect called a global one. Of course, to say those things, to say those things, it means that there is a degree of paroxysm, when these things arise in those terms. In other words, people's rights cannot be seen as a threat in any case. Because the law does not try to be a threat to anyone; it tries to guide public policies that make the right to housing possible. To this end, it defines its social role, and then expresses that the provision of housing and accommodation for public protection policies is defined as a service of general interest, and this enabling title gives rise to the interventions that are planned. Interventions that contemplate the law that the PP government and in general the entire right consider to invade the right of ownership, and hence the remedies of unconstitutionality with which they threaten. This is the big question, the property. The Spanish Government, through a report of the Ministry of Development sent in October 2013, already warned of the possible unconstitutionality of the proposed housing law. He claimed that articles 9.4, 71 and 73 define essential contents of the property, and claims that the State has such jurisdiction. Of course, in that comprehensive report, full of legislative, constitutional and other references, there is not the slightest reference to article 47, a guiding principle which speaks of the right to housing, and not even of article 33, which speaks of the social role of property. Again the old distinction between privileged and excluded that has marked for centuries the social scene of history. Marcuse said, in "The End of Utopia", that there are ways to eliminate hunger and misery in the world, and that if that does not happen it is by the socio-political organization of the earth. The belief and the will that it is possible to transform society in these terms are those that have long since marked the public policies that bet on the welfare state. Article 47 not only proclaims the right to housing, but also imposes an obligation on the public authorities to establish the relevant rules to give effect to that right. But the report I refer to from the Spanish Government does not mention it at all. And it is that the purpose of this law is nothing other than to carry out that constitutional mandate, while the right-wing purpose is that the right to housing is nothing more than a mere entelequia. The instruments by which it is intended to promote the realization, realization and guarantee of this right are the subject of the worst qualifications. For example, one thing that produces real hives is the question of empty housing and the imposition of a canon on the properties of such declared dwellings. The phenomenon of empty housing itself would give rise to a long debate, but as far as the law is concerned, I will mention an element that I consider important, bearing in mind that for liberal thought the right to property is an absolute lordship that cannot be disturbed by anyone, not even by the public authorities. But here it is forgotten, it is forgotten that there is what is called the abuse of the right and the antisocial exercise of it, as stated in article 7 of the Civil Code. And this is precisely what the law seeks: not to protect the abuse of the right and the antisocial exercise of the same which it supposes and which constitutes having empty dwellings over time, being in need of them. It is clear that there is a mismatch between the need for housing and the existing park, and the decision to act on market mismatch requires considering it from the perspective of both supply and demand. While it is true that it is a problem to accurately identify the number of empty dwellings, because first it is a concept that needs to be defined, but even with these previous difficulties, there are studies that come to give some more or less eloquent figures. And, according to the Basque Housing Observatory, in 2013 we had 8.7% of existing housing in an unoccupied situation. This mere observation already tells us of a poor use or use of urban space, and this has its importance in the debate on property, because, although a house is a private property, it is no less true that it is found in urban spaces that are not private property, but public and collective goods, and therefore are two legal goods to be harmonized: the public collective property of the urban space, and the private property of the house inserted in the previous one. This binding need to combine interests should not lead to forgetting the guiding principle of social policy in article 47 of the Spanish Constitution, nor the primacy of collective interests over private individuals. On the one hand, a large number of empty dwellings can only be understood as a phenomenon full of negative connotations. On the one hand, a patrimony that does not produce profitability, at least apparent, can only have the probable purpose of waiting for gains. On the other hand, the ownership of empty housing would not only be in breach of the social function, but also the threat, because speculative behavior leads inexorably to the alteration of the price of things, in this case of houses. For the design of the law, it must be understood that housing consideration is a portion of urban space for private use intended to be used as housing for a household, although it is not unknown that it is an economic asset and an investment. That the definition of empty housing is an indeterminate legal concept, we would even say diffuse, is true, because there are many situations that explain such a situation; however, it is possible to carry out a concrete realization. Article 89.2 of the preliminary draft law guaranteeing the right of citizens to decent housing under the auspices of Councillor Madrazo in the Government of Mr Ibarretxe already required this. Therefore, when it raised the question of where an empty housing situation could be defined, it already gave a number of situations that could describe it. The law does what it does is refer to regulatory development on this issue. With regard to the imposition of the fee, such as forced rent, these measures are not different in these cases, however alarming they may seem to some, from those taken elsewhere, in Europe in particular. A tour of the different legislation would result in us being able to find that the law presented here is in line with the most effective legislation in order to guarantee the right to housing, and that it penalizes in one way or another the housing so considered. And let us therefore say that these legal figures are based on an acceptable political culture. There are other relevant aspects to highlight, yes, as is the policy of rent as a way of understanding public housing policies, and that acquires concreteness. On this particular matter I could also extend, but it is enough to say that the law is committed to this formula as the only alternative to housing policy, with a period of adaptation of five years. Right of counting and retraction, registration of rental contracts, forced expropriation (subject to the State Law on Forced Expropriation, as it cannot otherwise be), and other interventions, such as the creation of an autonomous body in which all public societies converge, and integrating the different housing programmes and policies. A whole series of legal measures to try to give effect to the right to housing, according to numerous instruments of international human rights law: we have the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of 1948 in article 25, International Covenant on Economic and Social Rights of 1966, European Convention on Human Rights, European Social Charter of 1961... And while the Spanish State is one of the most demanding actors in terms of the right to decent and adequate housing, its housing policy has not been able to adequately implement the constitutional mandate and the international commitments made in this area. In general terms, it can be said that the housing supply system combines the characteristics of a weak social state, in which the market is the one that assigns and regulates this basic need for people in the main. This policy is rooted in the Franco regime, and has not changed substantially since then. The situation in the rest of Europe is markedly different. Since the 1950s, many European countries have experienced strong intervention by public authorities on the market in order to respond to social needs. None of this has happened in the Spanish case, where it can be said that there has never been a genuine social policy on housing. The law presented here seeks to overcome this democratic and social deficit, and it does so within the framework of our competences. Because in the area of housing only by autonomous law can be legislated. The State persists in its desire to deny this capacity to self-governments by invoking 149.1.13, which speaks of competence for the economic planning of the whole State, which corroborates the foregoing with regard to obsessive phobia to all that is the realization of rights. What we have known is a privatized owner market, with high rates of speculation and corruption, black money receiver, supervitary, and ecologically unsustainable. On the contrary, a public policy based on a housing rights perspective requires that housing be recognized not as a luxury commodity, but as an inalienable and unavailable necessity, both for market and state powers. This is the purpose of the law which this opinion, still incomplete, seeks because of the difficulties of negotiation and the complexity of the text itself. Therefore, I would like to thank both EH Bildu and UPyD for their cooperation in the implementation of this law, as I said at the beginning. And remember that this is the collective fruit in which many people, many collectives, many social movements have participated, who have contributed to generating awareness about this state of affairs. And, therefore, to all those avant-garde citizens who have managed to keep up the demand for an effective right to housing, and to all those who have collaborated in one way or another by making their contributions to this text that we are going to light up, from here I want to thank them and thank them for all of it. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u6	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Teams turn, small to big. To defend reserved corrections and private suffrages, and to fix the position around the judgment, is a space of about twenty minutes. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u7	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Lehendakari, counselors. Two years ago we decided to vote in favour of the Socialist Group's proposal for a law being taken into consideration in this House. The fundamental reason, as we explained then, is that Euskadi does not have a housing law and that Euskadi needs a housing law, and that text that was brought to us by the Socialist Group could be the basis for a good future housing law. In her discussion of the Housing Commission a few days ago, the representative of the People's Group rightly recalled that Euskadi did not yet have a housing law because neither the Basque Nationalist Party nor the Socialist Party of Euskadi had been able, for years, to reach the minimum consensus to achieve that shared goal. Listening to her, and being what she explained to me, I told myself that UPyD had done well in trying to do everything possible to keep history from repeating itself, and I told myself that the attitude taken by UPyD from taking this bill into consideration until today's debate had been the right one. Because from the first day UPyD's attitude has been constructive, dialogueal and positive, and the objective to achieve clearly: to adopt the best possible housing law. Politics involves getting wet, taking responsibility and giving face, and that's what UPyD has done in this whole process whose colophon is being produced today. We soon realized that there were three possibilities: that there was no housing law, that a conservative and unambitious law was passed that did not entail any relevant progress, and that third option, third possibility, that an ambitious and progressive, courageous and just law was adopted, and that it was aimed at resolving the problems of Basque citizens with regard to housing. We have done everything possible to have an advanced and progressive housing law. It is not perfect and it is not exactly the law that we would have elaborated, but I believe that at least on our part we have done everything possible so that the text could finally pick up three matters that we consider absolutely essential. One, the subjective right to decent housing; two, let all public housing be rented; three, measures to combat evictions, that drama that has suffered thousands of citizens over the past few years. In that regard, our vote has been decisive in achieving these three objectives. This law introduces other issues that convince us less or raise doubts, or that seem less important to us, but the introduction of the subjective right to decent housing, that all housing resources are dedicated to rent, and measures that can prevent people from being left homeless and on the street compensate for everything. The negotiations with the Socialist Group have been based on the achievement of these objectives, and I thank Mr Bixen Itxaso for his talent. Therefore, since the initial text is a very important text, since UPyD we have proposed a series of partial amendments that have affected various issues: the abolition of the status of accommodation; the commitment to public housing exclusively for rent, aimed at citizens who are at every moment in a situation of greater vulnerability; special attention to those groups who are in worse economic situation or at risk of social exclusion; the defence of subjective law, undoubtedly one of the great advances established by law. With our amendment 285 to Article 8.2: consider that those who, as holders of their habitual housing, are in the process of eviction for mortgage execution and are unable to meet the payments of the mortgage loan without risking social exclusion, and also those tenants who are in the same circumstances and are unable to face the payments of the lease without risking social exclusion. With our amendment 292, to Article 9.4: in cases of need for housing for persons in particular circumstances of social emergency, in which eviction proceedings for mortgage execution of housing, the possibility that the Administration may exercise the right to auction or pre-subrogation of the loan, with the aim of recovering the public money used in the promotion of protected housing and thus guaranteeing the right to housing of the tenant. Support for the creation of a single register of public protection housing; support for the establishment of the public patrimony of the Autonomous Community; the abolition of the socialist proposal for the creation of the guarantee and compensation fund; the abolition of urban rehabilitation societies; the abolition of the deposit of bonds proposed by the Socialist Group; support for the creation of a register of uninhabited housing; support for the forced rental of uninhabited housing, obviously under certain circumstances and under strict compliance with certain requirements; initially, the abolition of the socialist proposal, of course, for the forced expropriation of the temporary use of dwellings in forced eviction proceedings for mortgage execution. Although we have finally come to an alternative text that improves and completes the initial wording, and that guarantees its legal certainty. This is what politics has to do, that we have to negotiate and reach agreements, and sometimes the political rival convinces you of the viability and the need for his proposals. If we look back, we can check the coherence of UPyD, since much of the ideas contained in this housing law have been defended in one way or another over the last few years by UPyD, through the presentation of certain initiatives, non-law proposals, motions and also motions for resolutions in the various monographic debates that have taken place in recent years in this House. There, for example, in April 2011, in connection with the holding of a monographic debate on housing, we proposed and defended the following resolution: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to give effect to the right of citizens to enjoy decent and adequate housing, and to turn the principle into a genuine subjective right that can be required before the courts for those with greater access difficulties". We were already defending him, therefore, in April 2011. And we said that, with regard to the disjunctive between sheltered housing for rent versus sheltered housing under ownership, we continue to defend the first option, without any doubt. We are told from the Basque Government – as I said in April 2011, the Socialist Government – that in the case of sheltered housing under rent the investment recovers more slowly, and the repayment periods are so long that it makes it difficult for public institutions to deal with these types of actions. But we thought – I said in April 2011 – that this argument shows a mercantilist view of the housing policy that we reject. And we said that in UPyD we are clear that the housing policy that is closest to social justice is based on putting at the service of the citizens with less income, and of the young people who seek their emancipation, a large housing park for rent to be used for a few years, and for which they pay income proportional to their income and family situation. And we continued to say in April 2011 that UPyD advocates a public housing policy exclusively for rent, designed for young people and citizens with fewer resources, so that it is the most disadvantaged people who have every moment the right to housing. Moreover, we said: "The Basque Government has announced that it will allow the Administration to impose a canon and forced rent of uninhabited housing. Town halls may impose a fee on uninhabited dwellings. In addition, forced rental of declared uninhabited dwellings may be imposed in areas of accredited demand and need for housing." And I was like, "We share it." We added that the Basque Government must explain how it intends to overcome certain difficulties. So how do we prove that a house is really uninhabited? How do we prevent the owners from playing with that two-year margin? How do we control potential fraudulent contracts that can be registered with the Basque Government to avoid the canon? Among other things, these are issues that will have to be resolved from now on, and of course clarified. While many of the partial amendments tabled by UPyD have not been accepted, have not been incorporated into the final text, we can say that we are satisfied with what is finally included in the law and with the compromise amendments signed at the time with the Socialist Group. This will make it possible for UPyD to vote in favour of the housing law. In particular, we signed the compromise amendments with the Socialist Group for the creation of a single autonomous body that integrates the different public enterprises and agencies currently in existence in the field of housing; that 80% of the housing resources are allocated to rental policies, collecting a temporary space of five years so that all public housing is exclusively for rent... I say that in 2009 I myself submitted a non-legislative proposal urging the Basque Government to make it possible for all public housing to be exclusively rented. In that debate in 2009, I remember perfectly well, I was absolutely alone in defending those approaches; six years later, we can say that we have achieved that goal. Six years later, we have achieved the goal that all public housing is intended for rent, or that it will be intended, in the very near future, for rent. In addition, these transaction amendments will consider housing needs to be met by those who, as holders of their usual housing, are in the process of eviction for mortgage execution and are unable to cope with mortgage payments without risking social exclusion. In addition, in the event of the need for housing of persons in special circumstances of social emergency, in the event of eviction proceedings for for foreclosure or for failure to rent, the procedure for the temporary expropriation of the use of the housing subject to it may be applied, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 73 and 74, without being required to comply with the requirements referred to in paragraph 3. Or the introduction of the lease in article 73.1, which regulates the forcible expropriation of the temporary use of dwellings in the course of eviction proceedings for mortgage execution. Undoubtedly a courageous measure, a progressive measure, which can serve as a pressure for the financial institution to renegotiate, and which fulfils all constitutional guarantees. This law certainly fulfils all the constitutional guarantees, because we have made sure that it does. Finally, the option of the right of tanteo and retraction as the own idea of UPyD, which has finally been included in the law. Being our decisive vote for the adoption of this law, we could not turn our backs on Basque society. Thanks to our vote, and despite the fact that many of our partial amendments have not been adopted, as I said before, and that we do not share one hundred percent of the law, we believe that Basque society will have a good tool to meet its housing needs and to fight the scourge of evictions. And this is extraordinarily important for UPyD and a server. If this law is to prevent further evictions, we can celebrate it together. That would be an extraordinary success. Having looked elsewhere would have been sincerely unforgivable, and that is why we did not want to look elsewhere. Enough has suffered, enough has suffered too many people in Euskadi as a result of evictions, so that a servant would have looked elsewhere and would not have ended up wetting himself to pass this law, which includes forceful measures to fight evictions. By voting on this text and including the compromise amendments signed with the Socialist Group, we are therefore consistent with our trajectory, and we enable a good legal text to be enabled. So, with our decisive vote, we are going to make three things fundamentally possible. One, the implementation of the subjective right to enjoy decent, adequate and accessible housing; the right contained in the Spanish Constitution itself that the autonomous communities must develop, a right already proposed by the Basque Nationalist Party at the time (2008), and something that is contained in its own programme. The Basque Government will have to decide, by regulation, how this right is translated into reality. Two, let all public housing be rented, a historical claim by UPyD defended for the first time in 2009. In that debate we were told from the socialist government that in the case of sheltered housing under rent the investment is recovered more slowly, as I said before, and the repayment deadlines are so long that they complicate the institutions to face this type of action, to which I replied, literally, that "this argument shows a mercantilist view of the housing policy that we reject". Today, thanks to our vote, all the resources of the Basque Government in the area of housing will be allocated to rent. We are told by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Government that this will involve spending a lot of public money, a lot of resources on housing. Indeed, and so it will have to be. In the same way that there is no question that a lot of public money should be allocated, a lot of public resources should be devoted to health care, education, or social spending, and public resources should also be devoted to guaranteeing this right, which we consider absolutely fundamental and which is enshrined in the Spanish Constitution itself. And three, put in place very advanced legal and political mechanisms to combat the tragedy of evictions. I believe that this is how we carry out the political programme of UPyD. I have had some doubts throughout this process. It's been a controversial law, discussed. Many things have been said by the Government and by the Basque Nationalist Party, and this law and its purpose have been strongly criticized. I think they've been unfair statements. I believe that we have tried to make the best law possible, and I have kept to the maximum I have had since I was in Parliament: always comply with the political programme of UPyD, and, in case of doubt, always be close to the most humble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u8	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u9	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Well, I take the floor to set out my group's position on both the proposal for a law and the amendments, to defend the amendments that this group has tabled to it. And I want to do it by making one end clear from the beginning, from the beginning. From the People's Group we want to say that we have always said, and we want to reiterate it now, that it was necessary and necessary for Euskadi to have a housing law. We have defended it in this House on many occasions. A law articulating the mechanisms for the realization of the right to decent and adequate housing; the right, as has been said here, constitutionally recognized in article 47. It is also right that, in accordance with Article 10, paragraph 31, of our Statute, our Autonomous Community must materialize. It is clear, and it has also been said here, that there is an unmet demand, and that it is for the public authorities to satisfy that demand. And many have been the attempts of different governments to pass a housing law, attempts that have always been in extremis. Let us remember that the Government of Ibarretxe presented it two days before calling the elections, and the Government of Patxi López, after a crossroad of countless stations, after many announcements and unfulfilled promises, presented it at the end of June 2012, but its debate could not take place, because the elections were finally convened in August. And since that bill could not be passed, it was presented as a bill. Because the proposal that is presented is a plagiarism of that bill, a bill that was no longer well managed, that did not do any previous work of negotiation, and that when it was presented it did not have signs of accession on the part of this House, but rather on the contrary. But at that time the councillor himself said he was not interested, that he probably would not like the Basque Nationalist Party or the People's Party, but he did not worry at that time about seeking consensus, no. And we also thought that he intended that law to be born dead. From that moment on, he was calling for the death of that bill. But when the parliamentary arc has changed, and the Socialist Party believes that it can count on other support, with which it seems to be its natural partners, it brings to this House the previous draft in the form of a non-law proposal. Nor has consensus been sought now, no, however much it may be said here. Nor has consensus been accepted or sought. Many of the amendments tabled by Bildu have been accepted by the proposing group, so that in many of the sessions of the paper it seemed that the proponent of the initiative was Bildu and not the Socialist Party. And only the vote of the one who could make him give the sum, the vote of UPyD has been sought. And so we see how this law is not the result of consensus, as I said; it is simply the result of an arithmetic sum of Parliamentarians from Bildu, PSE and UPyD. As we see more and more, politics is reduced to this, to arithmetical sums, to give the numbers, no matter what is under those numbers, no matter what results can be obtained. Because, although we recognize from the People's Group that a housing law is necessary, this does not mean that any housing law is worth it, no. And of course this, in our opinion, is not a good housing law. I said that when this law was taken into consideration, for many reasons. First for reasons of legislative technique. An instrument of this magnitude, such as housing, should have counted on the processing of major projects, on the processing of a bill, which would have made it with the reports accompanying the laws. But no, it was preferred to dispense with it and, however, to present it as a proposal. And this, as I say, would have made it possible to count on the respective reports, on factual bases, and not on that generic reference that is made in the explanatory statement of "we take into account the studies and analysis of demand carried out at the time of the drafting of this legal text". I don't think it's serious to base a law on "these reports" that you have. But, as I said, this proposal is presented, which in its day was a bill, despite the fact that that bill, in the reports issued by many agencies, mandatory reports, had a lot of reparations. But no, he shows up. A proposition is presented that is mimetic, with a single novelty, a single novelty, which is that of the Andalusian decree, which, by the way, has been declared unconstitutional last May. It is true that it has changed, but we continue to doubt the constitutionality of what is to be approved here today. I said this when this proposal was put forward: the housing policy carried out by the various governments with which Euskadi has relied has been a major failure. Because it is not enough to have skills, to demand more skills. What needs to be done is to effectively manage the skills that are held, and that has never been done here. The management of housing policy, of course, has been anything but effective, it has been a major failure, but it is that the policy that will emerge after this law is also doomed to failure, because it is part of falsehoods. Part of the fact that the solution to the problem of housing lies exclusively in declaring that there is a subjective right to housing, a subjective right that is not so, because then in the law itself it is stated that not everyone: it has to be done in tandem, it has to be done in phases. But anyway. The motto of the social function of housing and the recognition of subjective law, as I say, we believe that it will bring with it, in addition to a new failure, a lot of frustration in the citizenry for the generated expectations that will not be able to be met. Because the right to housing is constitutionally recognized, as has been said here, and it is true that the public authorities are obliged to satisfy that right, but, indeed, for the public authorities to undertake the task, to impose the task of fulfilling that right, is it necessary to declare it as a subjective right? Do we have to declare all the rights recognized in the Constitution as subjective rights, which can be claimed before the courts, and if they cannot be claimed before the courts, will that mean that the public authorities are not going to do anything to satisfy them? Moreover, it is useless to declare the right to housing as a subjective right if it is not subsequently satisfied. Because, as I say, statements are very good in a role, but the important thing for citizens is the satisfaction of those rights. And the question, as I say, is not one of demand, but of considering the considerable economic means and the social possibility of having them in the present economic situation, because, if not so, it implies an exercise of ideological, voluntarist and far from reality. It is therefore necessary, as I say, to take account of the economic and budgetary possibilities of the institutions involved, not only of the Basque Government, but also of the municipalities themselves. Because it is clear that the configuration of the right to housing as a subjective right will have consequences for the Basque Government, the first line in the demands of individuals, but also for the municipalities, which will occupy the second line in the demand. And with what resources, not only the Basque Government, but also the municipalities, will they face this demand? Because, as I said, the law itself recognizes that the satisfaction of this right will be done step by step, it will be done by steps, but it has to materialize. And the role, as I say, endures everything, but then reality demands more than populism and demagogy. It is necessary to have budgetary resources, it is necessary to have human and organizational resources, especially when the text itself includes the possibility that the requirement of the right, if not possible, will be supplemented by an economic benefit, which we have been informed can amount to more than 700 million up to 2025. And it's necessary to know if we're going to be able to count on those resources. It's necessary to know. If to do so, to count on those resources, we will have to incur more debt, if we will have to raise taxes, or if we will cut from other parts of the Basque Government, and from which. That's what you have to say! And this law, moreover, contemplates a single formula, which is the rent, with which this group does not agree. It is true that the demand is being reversed, which is increasingly the Etxebide registrants who choose the option of renting, but not all. Not all of them. And, although we share that the rental formula must be prioritized, neither, in our opinion, should it be the only formula. And the law also does not explain why rent was a priority at first, and now why it is only going to be rent. Moreover, this law seeks to replace the action of the public authorities, or rather the inaction that the various governments, both nationalists and the socialist government, have made clear, and to shift the burden to the private sphere. Because there were unoccupied public protective houses, and they continue to exist. And yet, those who have them empty are penalized. But, of course, not all these empty dwellings have been made available to those who need them. In addition, this law has large doses of legal uncertainty. There are competing invasions with the State, and there are also provisions contrary to municipal autonomy. We believe that the legislative powers of the Basque Parliament are exceeded in a number of areas: property status, expropriations, tax powers and the legal regime of public administrations. The Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has full competence in urban planning, but not so much in housing, as it may affect property. And regulating the legal status of property law is the competence of the State, as repeatedly proclaimed by the Constitutional Court. Status of ownership, which, in accordance with article 33 of the Constitution and the competence reserve of article 148.1.1 and 18, as I say, is the responsibility of the State. Therefore, articles relating to forced rental, and other regulators of public instruments of intervention in the housing market and provisional accommodation, have a direct impact on this status of ownership, which, as I say, is not a matter for this House to regulate. The same applies to the uninhabited housing canon, forced rent and forced expropriations, which clash with this property right. And with regard to the expropriation of housing affected by mortgage debts, as I said earlier, the Constitutional Court has clearly ruled on this, and it also influences municipal autonomy. Therefore, this law, in addition to large doses of demagogy, is also born with large doses of legal uncertainty. It is a law that rests on criminalization, on punishment, and from this group we have always said that we are much more in favour of measures of encouragement than measures of punishment. Since the People's Group we have proposed 178 amendments, of which one fortnight has been accepted, and three have been fucked. All of them in the sense of putting into proposals the ends to which I have just referred. Some contained aspects of better definition, inclusions in our view necessary, or more appropriate drafting. There is another group of amendments aimed at ensuring this appropriate division of jurisdiction and municipal autonomy, ultimately guaranteeing legal certainty. Others are the result of proposals made by the reporting bodies of the previous project, which, as I say, is mimetic to it, such as the Office of Economic Control. Others – who not only presented them to us, but also coincided, and has finally disappeared – to end this pilgrim idea of the compensation fund. Others aimed to ensure that the social role of housing was shaped in a manner consistent with the constitutional requirements of the right to property. With regard to guaranteeing the right to housing, we do believe, because we have said it before, that the public authorities must guarantee that right to housing, and therefore we have proposed the recognition of the right to enjoy decent, adequate and accessible housing for all those who have an administrative neighbourhood three years old in Euskadi, imposing the satisfaction of that right on the public authorities of our community, but without recognizing it as a subjective right. Because, as I said before, doing so without weighing the economic means, and without knowing whether there is a possibility of having them, constitutes an exercise of political voluntarism away from reality. We have also proposed housing reserves for certain groups in special difficulties, such as large or single-parent families, young people, women victims of gender-based violence, people with reduced mobility, or victims of terrorism who want to return to Euskadi. We have also proposed that, as I said earlier, other forms other than rent should not be excluded in order to satisfy the need for housing. We have highlighted that legal uncertainty of the law, and we have also tried to reduce it with our amendments. Nor do we agree, beyond their safety or otherwise, with the imposition of the canon or forced rent, because we believe that, as I said, in the face of coercive measures, they are far more effective measures than they do to ensure, in addition to penalizing, the placing on the market of unoccupied housing. Moreover, as we have said on other occasions, punishment should not be the goal of public administrations, it should not be. What must be done is the satisfaction of rights, and we believe, as I say, that encouraging real estate owners to put them on the market is far more effective than simply imposing a fee on them. We have endeavoured to ensure that, with regard to the rehabilitation of housing, that is the real objective pursued, that housing is rehabilitated, and that it does not ultimately affect the right to property. We have proposed – and that has been included, it has been accepted – that account should be taken of the provisions of Law 13/2008 on Support to Families, as regards standardized income. In other words, the number of members of the family or cohabitation unit should be taken into account. We have also proposed amendments aimed at avoiding the excessive interventionism of the administration, as well as at ensuring the social utility of public protective housing. Finally, I would like to refer to something that has always come out when housing has been debated in this House, and something that I believe is a necessity. And it is that the housing law goes indissolubly together with the Soil Law, and it is necessary to amend the Soil Law because the current one is absolutely ineffective. We believe that these two legal instruments, both together, must be addressed to guarantee the right to housing of all Basques, of those who have less economic resources and of those who, without excessive economic resources, cannot, however, benefit from public protection housing, but have the right to have access to housing at an appropriate price. And the current Soil Law does not guarantee it. He doesn't guarantee it. This current Soil Law, in addition to courting the municipalities without taking into account the different realities of each one, has not served that essential objective. That is why we have proposed in these amendments, and in the absence of an amendment to the Soil Law... By the way, the Soil Law which was brought here an attempt to reform also in the previous parliamentary term by the Socialist Group, but of that it has already been completely forgotten. And it was also said that it was necessary to make the two modifications, but of that it has completely forgotten, and that new Law of Soil at the moment does not see the light. Well, we have proposed that urban charges should be reduced to the municipalities precisely to facilitate the construction of safe and free housing, and that these should have an adequate price. And also that these concessions be fixed by the city council taking into account the characteristics of its municipal term. Just as we have also proposed amending paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 80 of the current Soil Law 2/2006, precisely so that the percentages for protective housing are reduced. Because the excessive percentage, like this housing law, looks very good on paper, but then the results have been those that have been: that homes have for a long time had their price absolutely fired, or, if not, simply, at times like the current one, they are not built. Therefore, as I say, it is necessary to reduce these reserves of land intended for public protection housing, in order to encourage the construction of public housing and also free housing, but which have affordable prices for citizens, because what we cannot do is to protect one another and leave absolutely unprotected others. The truth is that many have been the debates that have taken place in this housing law. The house started on the roof. It should have been a project, it should have been accompanied by a series of reports, it should have been accompanied by appearances, and then then to see the light of the law, but everything has been done backwards. But, anyway, I want to thank all those who have come to the committee to make their contributions. All of them have been enriching. And I end up as I started, saying that we from the People's Group have always believed that there needs to be a housing law, but an effective law, a law that contains instruments, not voluntary measures that on paper can look very good, very good, but that then not only can they stay on paper, but in the end they are just wet paper. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u10	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Ichaso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u11	Of course, our political position cannot differ much from what has been stated in the opinion, and it was said what forces have resisted the spirit of the law that we are going to pass. These forces have been eloquently expressed in the previous intervention. So, I'm not going to go over it. It is to be said that the need for a law is affirmed in these times, after having seen all those episodes where the eviction and the forced launching of many people from their homes we have been able to monitor them, which means a spectacle in a society that is said to be civilized. But for the right, for the People's Party, the rights, as I said in the explanation of the opinion, are that, mere invocations. Subjective law, Mrs. Llanos, is a large part of the doctrine which understands that it is inherent in article 47 of the Constitution itself. What's going on? That their justiciability, their demand, can only be done in accordance with the laws, and, by chance, in the area of housing can only legislate autonomy. But when it comes to this situation then it is said: "No, let there be a law in which the law is favored but it is neither concrete nor guaranteed." Because "in the end the paper endures everything"... No, no, The papers in which the laws are printed are not ordinary papers, they are papers that create instruments that bind public authorities and citizens. Therefore, it is not an ordinary role that contains laws. Mrs. Llanos said that, man, this should have been handled... But, of course, the Socialists expect the government, when it comes to putting forward the legislative timetable, to talk about it. He didn't. And twice, by the way. The Basque Nationalist Party, which governs, had, on the previous occasion, also a bill of similar characteristics. He didn't pull it out in the opposition, he didn't raise it when he returned to the government. Socialists believed that a housing law was needed, and we proposed a housing law. Of course it is true that the procedure, when it is a proposal, is not the same as that of the project, but it will not be able to blame us for that, will it? He talks about resources. Indeed, resources, by definition, are always scarce and limited, but it is a question of establishing a hierarchy of priorities when it comes to allocating them. And I don't know whether or not you will agree with us, but the right to housing for us is a basic right. It's a basic right. And when we talk about the right to housing logically we cannot forget that we are talking about the excluded. It is true that the Socialist Party initially only talked about the fact that in the area of housing policy the rent was preferential, but throughout the debates this issue has been being made concrete, and we have been asked..., Mr Maneiro has made use of his representation in order to effectively turn towards the tendency to be a rental policy. But this is also not a result of last-minute agreements. Rental policies are sufficiently accredited and approved in Europe, and respond to housing problems and housing needs fairly effectively. It is therefore not, as I said in the report, an occurrence or a genius. It is based on a well-approved political culture, the rental culture. Of course, as I said, the opinion is not complete with the idea of the law, because the negotiations, the complexity itself and the difficulties have left some things to be approved in this plenary. Among other issues, for example, we want to maintain our particular vote on Article 54, which refers to the registration of bond deposits in leases. Of course, while the registration of contracts did not give rise to any controversy in the presentation, the deposit of bonds did. I recognise that I have also changed a little as regards my perception of this matter. At first he did have the impression that he could be a bit invasive of the autonomy of the parties' will, but the bond, which is a guarantee for the lessor, also has to be a guarantee for the lessee that he will be able to recover it, and that he will not lose it on any pretext at the end of the contract. On the other hand, it is necessary to know the housing park that is in rotation, which is in rent, which also generates information that is crucial in the fight against tax fraud. Therefore, we could say that the bond register has, as we say, a dual-use technology: it serves to control the evolution of the housing park that is being rented, and on the other hand it has the power to provide very valuable information for financial-fiscal purposes. We have reached a compromise with the Basque Nationalist Party in this matter, and therefore that compromise will cause the particular vote to fall and we can confirm this thesis. Then we also maintain our amendment No 83, creating a new article on the registration of empty dwellings. This was an amendment which we tabled shortly to register the initiative, the proposal for a law, because we warned that indeed the whole policy of combating the phenomenon of empty housing in the end would be ineffective if there was no effective register of empty housing that would allow the control and monitoring of these, in which the assumptions of 56, of permanently vacant housing were to be carried out. And I would like to say, Mrs Llanos, about the canon, which seems to be a heresy, that the consolidated text of Local Finance raises the possibility of imposing charges on dwellings that remain vacant. That is to say, neither, for the state legislator this constitutes a strange body, that of imposing a penalty on dwellings that remain vacant for a long time. This is what the consolidated text of Local Finances puts forward in Europe is perfectly collected, and in different laws very different ways of penalising this situation are applied, because, as I said, a major phenomenon of empty housing constitutes a phenomenon loaded with negative connotations. We therefore maintain the amendment to create a new article on the registration of empty housing. And it seems to us that this record is a nuclear aspect of anything that can be political to combat the phenomenon of empty housing. Then we have, in another order, the fourth transitional provision on the provisional arrangements for the establishment and gradual application of the subjective right to decent and adequate housing. Of course, we understood precisely the need for a transitional regime of progressive application, with an order of requirements, aware precisely that subjective law, like all associated measures, could not be applied from the first day. We are aware of the difficulty it will have in time to implement this law, but what it is about is to bring about a change in culture, in the dominant culture. And, therefore, I really agree with you, Mrs Llanos, that it is easier to draft a law on the role than then to apply it and gradually change the prevailing culture in housing matters. That is why we keep the particular vote on the fourth transitional provision. And, well, finally our particular vote comes to the explanatory statement as well. As far as the explanatory statement is concerned, this one, which does not appear in the opinion and which we defend, therefore, reflects better than anything the spirit that encourages the law. More than I can say, more than one can say, the explanatory statement reflects quite exhaustively what the law seeks, and it also sets out its structure and its systematic. But, of course, many things can be said in relation to the explanatory statement. On housing, on the right to housing, it has been written so much, and it is a basic necessity that not everyone agrees to, that on this issue a lot can be raised, but we understand that in the end the important thing, beyond the declarations of principles, was to turn the effort into what is the articulated text. Therefore, we keep the particular vote on the explanatory statement because what we think is important, as I say, is the articulated text, which is the text with the great political density. It may draw attention to the fact that in relation to empty housing this statement of reasons refers to how it is not a really significant fact from the point of view of subjective law, but it is necessary to adjust supply and demand, and, therefore, that implies dynamizing the empty housing park, knowing, yes, that there are minimum turnover rates for rented and sold housing, which are, in short, technical ratios of an empty housing percentage that is necessary for its rotation. We would say that it would be empty housing of a frictional character, while it is still to be occupied. The explanatory statement appeals to the Declaration of Human Rights, and this should not be merely an invocation of style either, but, if you really believe in such such statements, you will see that it is not a minor detail. That is to say, in addition to the Constitution and all these things, we have signed, let us say, great pronouncements and treaties, and as a symbolic element the Declaration of Human Rights, which for many years raises the right to housing. And in order to guarantee that right to housing, the precise instruments must be created. The law, of course, like any human work, is far from perfect, and it is certainly far from resolving all the problems that may exist in this matter, but it certainly represents a clear effort, an unequivocal intention to go in the direction that other legislation has put forward. Which is that really, no matter how much you want to ridicule and bring to absurdity what comes up here, is perfectly homologable. And I'll tell you something else, Mrs. Llanos. Of course, the majorities and arithmetics are the ones that enforce the agreements, but I already said it in the committee: there are no aristocratic majorities, one over another, eh! They are majorities, and the majorities that represent (so social majorities, citizen majorities) are worth both, as long as they are majorities. Because, if not, we will come to the conclusion that there are qualified majorities, according to who composes them, and other majorities that turn out to be low-skilled, because they compose others. And we don't agree on that. This is where politics has come together. Programme issues have coincided, there has been a take and if, in fact, in the positions of the different groups... You yourself have acknowledged that some of the amendments tabled, at least one third of them, have been accepted, which demonstrates the unsectarian nature of this rapporteur at least. The same has happened with the Nationalist Group, which also showed substantive discrepancies but also incorporated important amendments to the text. And, therefore, the general idea has been to achieve a great consensus, but, I see, with a number of nuclear elements. And subjective law, in which you insist that it is not necessary, is precisely one of the elements on which doctrine is most discussed. If a subjective right is not set out in the law, there are more than reasonable doubts that its justiciability can be demanded, in accordance with 53.3 of the Constitution, and therefore this law makes it very clear. There is also another contribution from the professional colleges of real estate agents, which require the support of all groups and have sought it. Ours has also endorsed that amendment. It is at the first additional provision that the figure of these real estate operators is better identified. These are the issues, let's say, new ones. We maintain the amendments, as I say, and the particular votes, hoping that they will enjoy sufficient support to give meaning, cohesion and coherence to the rest of the opinion, which, in the absence of some issues, would suffer from some inconsistency. I therefore hope to find support for these particular amendments and votes that I have tabled. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u12	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Lady Betital, representative of the EH team, has her word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u13	Good morning, everyone. The day has come with difficulty, but the day has come when the citizens of the Uscaia and Gipuia will have a housing law, although the law which, if it be limited, is the beginning of the way to confess and execute it. It will not be the solution of all problems, the mistakes of long years will not be changed from morning to night, but it brings a better starting, and we hope it will help to change our course. We want the Basque People to be really a effective law, to be as complete as possible at the beginning, and therefore the text, except for some article, has our protection, has brought a great set of corrections into this planoese tramite, because we believe that the text has something to do with it. As we have defended ourselves in dispute, every man has a right to live a worthy place. But the nices of long years have made it impossible for many people to have a home, not only in property, but even in rent. And this has happened because instead of taking the house as a fundamental inheritance, it has taken it as a speculative inheritance. It has led us to believe that it has not been the privilege of satisfying the wants of the people, but of protecting speculative interests and the profits of some. So it's time to flip those priorities. And for this purpose, the first step must be the law that will be accepted. For this purpose, it is necessary that public institutions, in this case, should take possession of the leadership, and, finally, integrate with politics, that will have the means to make a public institution. We have proposed this, and the law will receive it; and without giving it all to the market, it is proper for the institution to make the means of correcting the wrong. Like that, the Basque Country will receive other important contributions from the court. And we're happy to have done that. For example, houses that will be built by public funds within five years will be built for 100 rents. Because in the distribution point of houses there will be a prior share of money, and therefore those who have the most urgent need. Or, for once, the house protected by fun will have the right to buy it for you first. This latter, the tendency which has ever been to civilize public money, is a means of repairing its imperfections, and restoring it to rent it. But in the same way that we're going through these measures, we think they've got a short-legged leg. For example, the demand of minimum revenues in addition to the maximal incomes of the housing implies that a sector of society, which is most urgent, is either because they have very few incomes, or that they have none at all, de facto, are deprived of the right of houses. We believe that it is well for the majority to demand, that the demand of the minority rejects those who have no means. These corrections have been rejected, and we have brought them back to discussion to-day. Another important group, we think, is that of the measures to make the empty houses available. Some things have been accomplished, we find it positive to lay down the canon for a time's sake, to deprive those who are in danger of making a necessary hire or staying out of the streets. We've managed to make Kano progressive, it's our contribution, but it's not the way he's chosen to calculate what we like. It seems to us that the social function of the house is no longer denied by anyone who has a larger house, so he shouldn't pay any more. And he will, because he's setting a number of meters. We think it more just to establish a number of every day that is empty. The majority has not yet supported our position, but it may yet be adapted to it, and we have brought it back to the plenod discussion. Besides, it seems a little excessive to have two years to name an empty house. We're for action in six months. And we've got the right thing to do. For this reason we have brought together the corrections relating to all that I am saying to the plenon. Those belonging to the Canon and to the empty houses, which are connected with the classification of protected houses, seek to prevent public money from being privatized, and consequently to cut off the sale. But when we talk of the sale of houses made of public money, not of sale in general, though some one has here made such an impression. In like manner we propose by these corrections, that when the law is established, they may be made for sale, but not sold for hire. To assure him that the money collected by health will be directed to the policy of the housing or not to punish the occupation. Besides these, we have also retained the oppositions of the security deposits between private persons, as well as of course we do not agree with the law, which is one of the rare articles which this group will not support. And we've also brought one of the points we play. the article's correction. As has been said, he wants to take steps to confess the rights of the law. It is therefore necessary to explain to whom the right of a house is to be found, who has the need of a house. We believe that those who are in the danger of denomination, and who are in great need, and who are in danger of losing the house, may be a good starting-point, it would be a mistake to think that only these domestic necessities are in danger. We think that to buy it, to rent it, to offer more than 30% of its income, for those who have 15% of very small incomes, all of them have a duty of home, because the other 70% who need a decent life is not guaranteed to satisfy other needs, if he has to offer the house more than that. It is not, therefore, enough to hire those who are in danger of staying in the streets, and others who are acknowledged to be their duty; Even those who are obliged to overcome the boundary of life must be acknowledged to be right in our opinion. And this would be the way, as we believe, to correct the mistake. You're in time to improve the text, and there's our offer. As to the corrections of the other groups, we have, at least, agreed to the demands and proposals of all groups. There has therefore been a will to make a consent, but an agreement in the possession of them. I have often said this and repeated it again to-day: the consistent is not a purpose. The purpose is to make a good and effective law, a law which will truly acknowledge the right of housing. And to attain this with as much harmony as possible must be an end, but it is not the main end. Not if we have to make a law that won't lead us anywhere. Besides, I don't think we'd get a law that we'd all agree to in the housing, like in many other things. I believe that there are very few laws which have been unanimously admitted since I am here, and which is very difficult, because we have very different views. The representative of the first Popula Party said he's going to take ideology. Of course, and also the attitude of the man who defends the opposite. Of course, if we don't start from ideology to make a housing law, we're wrong, we're gonna have to defend at least a certain ideology. But here it is that there are different ideology. I confess that, and therefore I shall not accuse any one of being more ambitious in his conduct, because that seems to me an impertinence. or I will not tell any one that his law is of no use, but only I will say that I do not agree with what he defends, and that he defends different things. And that is to say, though they have not been consistent, yet to have respect for the benefits which others have done, and nothing else. And it is a sign of this respect that we have done, that we have accepted the things of all the groups, and have accepted them without any trouble. And we have agreed that after this two years of discussion, what we thought was the way we were willing to give it, and that these corrections didn't have any problem with us. I wish, I often say, if the others had a problem with me. I mean, I don't look at the teams that suggest it, I look at the content. I didn't find the same attitude in our conduct. And it has been intended to use the proposals granted to the Basque People to oppose this law, when neither ours nor any other group ought to be in the law. The point is, what we're accepting is what's in the text, and the minimum is who proposed it. It's efficient, isn't it? Does he answer the necessity that he is in the street, or does he not? If, at least, it is my intention to do it with good will, I at least read it. As I was saying, we've accepted the suggestions of all the teams that we believe were going straight in the direction. What we have not received is because we thought we were going to place ourselves in another direction, and consequently have come to this plune, we shall make an exception to those amendments which have been brought here. In the midst of empty houses, we have made a thorough and complete development by our conduct, but it does not appear that what we have proposed will come to pass, and therefore we agree to the agreement of the majority. But we think that to make all this more complete, we need a record of empty houses, so we'll vote for it because it won't get us on board. With regard to private votes, as we have done now, we will not protect the deposit of finances, nor consequently that middle course which has been accomplished, but both the occasion and the transient regulation. The first does not agree with our view, but without the law, it is not very neat and, after all, important articles, rather than literature. If I wrote the law, I would have put another literature in it, though I confess it that way. On the other hand, we believe that the application must have been from the first day, but we are informed that the growth and realization of the law belongs to the group of the government, and that it is opposed to this law, so that it does not expressly express too much will to develop this law. We do not think it amiss, therefore, that the establishment of necessity, whilst domestic labours, should not be left in nothing; and therefore we shall make favour of the regulation proposed in this plenoon, by a sort of classed or scandaled application. By the way, even if this law is to be developed, it is to act on the strict course of our conduct. Because it's very important, very important, not just accept it, but develop it later. And yet, if it were to be rapidly and well developed, it is plain that it would require a great many additional measures if the case should be upset. For we think it is not acceptable to the impossibility of producing a fundamental right, that thousands and thousands of people have; that when more than ever they have been built, they may find the state we are in, when they have been raised above the growth of the people: more empty houses than ever, more people without homes. It's not healthy, and it's time to change. Step by step, but we can break the road with the ones given in the right direction. And the law, which is to be accepted to-day, may be the first step to do so, and therefore will be our protection, our privation. And I think we ought neither to thank ourselves nor congratulate ourselves for what we shall do to-day. I think that we ought to congratulate the citizens who are most anxious and urgent, when there are some representatives of them here, the representatives of them, the rough work, those who are doing the will day by day on the street, avoiding a fire, shaking our consciences about the problem of the housing. I think it's for them, and not for us, if there's a big day for someone. We tried to listen to these groups and listen to the street. I believe that this law listens more to the street than any of the pretty ones have ever seen, though it does not agree with the view of all persons. First Mrs. Llanos said she was grateful for the word the team had here. Actually, we haven't had a lot of teams in this joint. At the beginning of our demand for a long series of appearances, some few have presented themselves and made themselves, so that their voice might be heard, and consequently the representatives who have brought this proposition, which has been mentioned, and which all the groups have at last made use of, are here, and must acknowledge, that they have succeeded in following us by the law, in the alteration which will be made in this regulation, that their merit is almost more than ours, and their congratulations than ours. I don't think we've made enough room for the teams. But yet, though the beginning be not the best or finals that we please, yet I think the present state gives us a much more useful instrument. I repeat, he will not be able to solve all the problems, but he who will solve so many problems will solve them. Mrs. Llanos used to say that we're far from reality. What reality are we far from? Far from the reality of the release? far from the reality of those who seek to defend private property? I feel like we're not talking about one reality. I look at him every day when I come to see Mr. Ichaso, who has the impossibility of fulfilling his fundamental right. And not only are those who remain in the streets, but are not only the most urgent in need; they are not only those who are called by the name of the house-house for hire. It is a pity that thousands, because they see a utopia, have a fundamental right which does not reach even to give its name, because they see something that cannot be done. I think we should look at the reality of all of them. What this law was said to be based on punishment. That's not true. Perhaps he punishes the needs of him who is more concealed than anyone. Those who are in need of great necessity will hardly be punished by this law. and the second is not even those who have received taxes, nor those who have received them voluntarily, either by collecting them or by taking them. The precautions that seek to aid the consciousness of some diets without paying them to make their home available for their really social function. That's the main principle. And I think it's a long way from reality to deny that. If we look at official data like the survival program, we've seen the impacts of the impacts. If I have to be honest, in the past few years, I think it's not the only problem that measures like that don't get any other results, because that's obvious. I don't think there's any will to break those roads, and we'll probably be able to talk about it for months, because we'll have to take care of what's really done against empty houses, and we'll have to bring in suggestions and we'll have a job there. But to have a program like this not to have 5,000 houses, if that's the way to answer the real needs of home, when it's much more than that, that would be a distance from reality. And I can agree that the Earthzoru law should be changed, but if we were to transfer it to the propositions made by the Poptular, we would still be further from satisfying reality. For, as some one said, a short time ago at the committee, or at school, I don't remember, if it wasn't done with the standards, you'll tell me if they weren't standards, you'll tell me everything if they were free. There's a sector that's up to the number of protected houses, but it's still farther from homes. So I think the criteria may be different, different views may be allowed. I respect them all, I believe in my interference, not on the committee, never tried to underestimate anyone's position. I have often heard that some of them are experts in the laws. And I want to make something clear. The people choose us to make politics, and I come to it with humility, with all my privations, ready to learn, and also ready to listen to others, but also ready to defend a certain view, and I believe that this also may be permitted. And when, from different points of view, a majority is produced and articulated, I think it is positive. Sometimes these majority don't like me in this legislature, sometimes they do. I see it's my type today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Alter fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning to all. We must always demand to the members of the legislature, but still more, when we are about to accept a law, that our feet should be cold on the earth and their heads, to repair the concerns of the people, and not their expressions of vanity. It is necessary to make a good profession of legislation, to give seriousness to legislation, not to use it as an instrument for publicity, but as a tool to actually produce the life of the people in order to correct the negative effects which the laws produce at present. It is our duty to propose to accept the instrument to solve problems. This requires the knowledge of the nature and the nature of the tools, the principle of which it is to answer. We say that when a rule is drawn up, the consequences of the aims sought must be specified; the legal and economic consequences for the persons concerned must be known, their budgetary impact and the distribution of competences between the administrations concerned. It has been said, to motivate the existence of this law, that there is no housing law in Euskadi, but this should not serve as justification, in our view. Justification should be the consequences of the absence of such regulation in Euskadi, for that would really be the problem. However, nothing has been justified in the proposal for a law. In our view, the fact that we have not had a specific law before now has not prevented us from carrying out a housing policy that is acceptable to the rest of the more advanced European countries. For our group, housing is a substantial part of social policies. The challenge before us is the realization of the right to housing, to facilitate the existence of sufficient housing for Basque society in the coming years, to meet the demand for rented or owned housing, paying special attention to modest families, those whose income is less than 39,000 euros per year, which is the current limit for purchasers of officially protected housing. Especially for modest families, but we must also work to meet the housing needs of the rest of our society. In this respect, the proposal for a law which we are considering today is not going to serve this social objective, because for this to happen, first of all, a precise and reliable diagnosis must be made of the housing needs and the expectations of the applicants, and none of this has been dealt with in this proposal. And the political challenges we face must be linked to the characteristics of what a home means, which is the refuge of personal and family privacy, is the first element of a built space that places it in the very center of urban life, of urbanism; because of its economic role, it is the object of artisanal or industrial production, and, in addition to its importance in the economy and employment, it is used as a patrimony that is managed and produces income or income. It should therefore be addressed from these three different political points of view. And the way of working is as follows: to identify the problems and shortcomings in this area, to identify the levels of political-administrative responsibility for what has happened so far, to deal jointly with the problem, to assign separate obligations to each administration, to assess the effects of this, and thus to allow each administration to exercise sectoral competences but within an overall vision. Euskadi's proposed housing law lacks this overall vision, lacks a structural vision of the housing sector. Thus, for example, it is said that the current system has not worked, but it does not introduce a change in the concept of public protection housing. In essence, it is limited almost exclusively to changing the name to public protection: the current official protection housing disappears, and the new ones will be called "social protection housing", with the aggravating factor that it does not define what should be understood by such housing. Similarly, it forgets the private actors involved in the process of providing housing to society, and let us remember that, of the four houses that have been built in Euskadi in the last 20 years, three have been private initiative and one has been public promotion. There is no commitment to collaborate with the private initiative to ensure the existence of sufficient housing for all. According to data provided to all parliamentarians this week, 51,111 persons in demand for housing remained registered in Etxebide, 12,487 of whom are on property. This law should serve to provide this group with prospects for housing for all within a reasonable period of time, either through direct action by the Administration or in collaboration with the private sector. And the analysis of the text does not show that these perspectives can be met. Neither does this law deal with housing cooperatives, nor with collaborative entities, nor with the care sector. It refrains from addressing the problem of free housing, the relations between individuals aimed at the sale of free housing, which represents nothing more and nothing less than 75% of the total sale of housing in Euskadi. It renounces, as we say, to order certain legal relations between individuals, and particularly grave, seems to us to be the defective regulation of the chapter on competences, planning and programming in the field of housing. For all these reasons, we do not believe that a good piece of legislation has been achieved. In our view, this proposal is not of sufficient quality to merit our support. The proposed text is not that it is progressive or retrograde, it is that it is technically bad. It does not appear as a coherent whole, but as something confusedly mixed. That's why we thought it was not a good legislation product. It does not conform to the final purpose of the rules to secure the safety of the people, and we believe that this proposition has not sufficient quality for our protection. The key is not the text that is progressive or backward, left or right. The key is that it's a bad text, far from being a consistent whole, a confusing product. The text submitted for approval simply incorporates, without an analysis of its implications, demands from citizen collectives, and in many cases its text is more like a non-law proposal than a law itself. Or, as a friend of mine says, it has a mix of list air from the purchase and letter to the Magi, because unfortunately it includes a few toasts to the sun, or plainly counterproductive political mandates to offer a real solution to the housing problem in Euskadi. He participates in some old obsessions, such as that all sheltered dwellings must be rented. If all public aid is allocated to rent, how and when will the 12,500 own VPO applicants registered in Etxebide be met? On the other hand, instead of seeking the cooperation of the groups participating in the presentation in order to achieve a long-term compromise, the Socialist Group's action has basically been based, simply and simply, on the imposition of its proposal, in the light of a small parliamentary majority, on the basis of the only vote of 75, which is that of UPyD. The absence of collaboration with the majority groups is going to make it very difficult, it is going to cause the transformations of silence to be prevented on the basis of political and social consensus, which are actually the ones that can serve to solve the problem of housing for one or more generations. To seek to transform the complex reality of the housing world by means of provisions published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country, without the political support of the majority or of many other collectives, may be well placed before one's parish, but little more. We believe that in this case we can talk about legislation, because, rather than changing housing rules, we have worked to get the press to occupy the headlines at a given time or to gain greater political popularity. We believe that this law does not employ the appropriate legislative technique, and establishes great legal uncertainty that will have negative effects on the development of the activity of both public and private subjects. Even, Your Honor, that text is going to approve one thing today and the contrary at the same time. Ultimately, one of the foundations of the rule of law is called into question, and we cannot vote in favour of this bill. But let us look at the most significant aspects of the proposal. On the so-called subjective right (and we say "so-called subjective right" because the Legal Advisory Commission has already said that it is not a subjective right, but a social right of economic content), the first thing to say about it, to the great disappointment of those who support this proposition, despite their efforts to appear in the media as the valours of this right, is that this law does not create ex novo a subjective right to housing. The right to housing is already recognized in both urban and social legislation applicable in Euskadi. As far as the latter is concerned, article 30 of the Law on Guaranteeing Income and Social Inclusion, adopted by this Parliament on 26 December 2008, being lehendakari Juan José Ibarretxe, constitutes the supplementary provision of housing as a subjective right, which aims to facilitate access to rented housing for persons, which is essentially what they seek with this proposal. From our group we believe that public aid should be directed primarily at people and not so much at concrete, since it seems to us more fair that aid should be adjusted to the changing economic situation of families. And so it was raised, as I say, in 2008. It is therefore not true, as is reflected in many media, that the Basque Nationalist Party opposes the creation of a subjective right to housing. In fact, he proposed it in 2008, as I say. We oppose the form proposed in that text to achieve that goal. In view of the proposal contained in the opinion, we propose that the beneficiaries meet certain requirements, such as having a minimum age of 23 years, being registered or registered, and having three years of effective residence, and a proposal that is incardinated in the existing system of social aid; that the economic situation of the potential beneficiaries of this right be linked to the indices used for the other social policies. In addition, we propose that the gradual application of subjective law should take place in five calendar years, compared to the three proposed in the opinion. Because, let's be serious, it must be legislated with data. When adopting a proposal for a law, we must have the information necessary to estimate the correctness of the measure, and, among other issues, we must know the economic impact of the proposal, what economic impact it will have on the public coffers. According to the initial estimates provided to us by the adviser in January, the minimum cost of this law for the period 2015-2025 would be EUR 75 million more, which would have to be added to the amounts devoted to this purpose in the Community's budgets. With the incorporation of the latest amendments, which is difficult to calculate their impact because they are of varying content, it is estimated to be about 864 million. And let us remember that some 90 million have been earmarked for this last year, so it would be necessary to increase the budgets in this area up to EUR 150 million per year. And this is the estimated impact on the government's budgets, but this proposal will also entail significant variations in expenditure for municipalities, and perhaps also in their income. The application of this law in the proposed terms, and its relationship with the Income Guarantee Act, is going to raise a social conflict: the current recipients of the PCV who do not meet the requirements set out in this law, should they stop receiving the aid they receive for the payment of the rent of the dwellings they occupy? The regulation of this matter in the document is so deficient that upon the entry into force of the law there will be two subjective rights, one of which is the law itself, and the other of the Income Guarantee Act, because the supplementary housing benefit is neither repealed nor amended. And this deficiency represents another hole in the legal certainty of the applicable law. On the temporary expropriation of the use of housing in eviction proceedings, the proposal includes a measure enabling the Basque Government to temporarily expropriate, for a maximum period of three years, the use of housing immersed in eviction proceedings, but not only in cases of default of mortgage loan quotas, but also to expropriate the owner of the housing when a tenant cannot pay the rent to the landlord. Beyond the technical discussions on the formula to articulate it, with these perspectives, what owner of an empty house will rent it, if there is a risk that, in addition to not charging the rent, the Government can expropriate it for three years in favor of the late tenant? Do you seriously believe that this is a way to encourage the rental of empty housing? In the face of cases of risk of social exclusion motivated by mortgage execution or rent default, we have a proposal of our own. Our measures are aimed at solving people's room need problems. They affect both the mortgage debtors who have stopped paying their dues and the tenants who cannot pay the owner, because we understand that the damage inflicted on the evicted persons, the damage caused to the evicted, is similar in both cases. The proposed measures are: mediation between the parties (in essence, eh!, it would take further development, but I haven't had time at the moment), free advice to those affected, financial aid, and, finally, the offer of housing for rent in the public park. We always prioritize preventive measures, promoting the right to housing and assisting those in need of assistance in this area. As regards the problem of empty or uninhabited housing and the so-called canon, according to the last report on empty housing prepared by the Government in 2013 there are in the Autonomous Community 91,000 empty housing units, of which they are manageable, capable of immediate mobilization by the administrations for their potential offer in the housing market, about 42,000 housing units. We are in favour of promoting incentives and incentives for empty housing to be incorporated into the market, in order to meet the housing needs that exist in our society, and we have done so historically through the creation and empowerment of the Bizigune programme, and in the tax field through incentive measures in various taxes, such as the IRPF, company tax or IBI. However, we understand that the definition of the canon in article 57 is not the correct one, because the canon is defined as follows: as a taxation by the municipalities, which will tax uninhabited dwellings, and the income for this purpose will provide the municipal property of land. This is an obligation imposed on individuals, which is entrusted to the Euskadi municipalities, and which will be entered into the municipal coffers. That is to say, it is set as a municipal tax in every rule, and it is not a tribute of the Autonomous Community itself, ladies and gentlemen, as some of us want to explain here. And, at this point, we must remember that in Euskadi the regulation of the municipal tax system corresponds to the outlying institutions of the historical territories. And this is not an issue that is regulated in the Historical Territories Act, but that is done nothing more and nothing less than the Economic Concert Act, specifically in its article 42. In short, we believe that this Parliament is establishing a new municipal tax, an intrusion into the powers of the historical territories, and all this regardless of whether in the historical territory of Gipuzkoa the municipalities can demand, and in fact some already demand, the surcharge of the net quota to the IBI for empty dwellings. In other words, there is an assumption of double taxation, something that is legally prohibited. With regard to urban rehabilitation, regeneration and renewal, we believe that the rehabilitation policy will be fundamental in the future housing strategy, and we have therefore proposed to amend the specific chapter on urban rehabilitation and regeneration. In addition, in order to make rehabilitation activities more attractive to building owners, we have proposed to reduce the percentage of cession of urban development from 15% to 10% on unconsolidated urban land, which is the subject of rehabilitation activities. We have also proposed a number of amendments to avoid inconsistencies and legal uncertainty, both for the enforcer of the rule and for individuals, given the numerous contradictions between the text of the proposal and the basic regulation emanating from the law called 3R. For example, the problem arising from the provisions of articles 59 and 60 of the text, in relation to the aforementioned Law 3R, for those dwellings that do not meet the minimum conditions for them to be considered habitable. This will force the municipalities to prohibit the residential occupation of many homes, bringing insecurity and squalidness to many homes that do not have that concern today. On the relationship of public protective housing to urban planning, we propose to reduce the current percentages for official protective housing from 75 to 55 % on urban land, and from 40 to 25 % on urban land, provided for in the current Soil Law. In addition, we propose to give greater prominence to the municipalities in the determination of these percentages, with a dual purpose: on the one hand, to promote economic activity, and, on the other, to adapt the amounts of protected housing to the social reality of each municipality. We plan to reduce the minimum standards of sheltered housing in two cases: in the case of regeneration and urban renewal operations, or when there is no demand for sheltered housing in the municipality. Because it does not make much sense, ladies and gentlemen, to force individuals to build public housing in municipalities where there are no needs for such housing, where there are no social housing applicants, and we introduce a dose of flexibility compatible with the general interest in housing construction and the social role of property. With regard to the amendments tabled, I must say first of all that we maintain all our amendments, with the exception of paragraphs 547 and 551, that we withdraw them. We will support the first transitional provision, on the role of real estate companies, which is an amendment agreed by all groups. We will also support the Socialist Group's particular vote on bail, as well as a significant number of amendments by the People's Group, which we consider to be best suited to achieving the objective of meeting housing needs in Euskadi. Specifically, there are 87, 102, 103, 104, 105, 124, 132, 133, 135, 136, 138, 145, 148, 158, 160, 161, 162, 163, 166, 167, 169, 171, 185, 188, 196, 201, 205, 236 and 243. And we will vote against all the other amendments. Finally, I would like to thank all my colleagues for the work and effort they have done in the paper, even if the result is not to our liking, because I believe that we have worked sincerely to achieve a good text, although, as I say, it is not to our liking and we think that it will bring a lot of insecurity and will create a lot of problems for solving the problems that we wanted to solve with this initiative. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u16	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Passing on the Replicants' turn, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u17	Yes, thank you very much, President. I agree with Mr Aldaiturriaga when he says that those of us who have taken part in this paper that gives rise to this text have been working honestly. Indeed, I believe it has, and I believe that the will of all groups has been to try to agree on the best possible text to solve the problems of citizenship. That has been at least our commitment, and we have certainly committed ourselves to it. Well, many things have been said, and it is clear that both the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party do not like this text, and they have slipped a number of adjectives that we do not share. It has been said that this is a technically bad text, of low quality, which is a letter to the Magi, which is a toast to the sun, which is wet paper, which is pure postureum, and which is even demagogic. For our part, there is no interest in doing any kind of demagoguery on this issue. What we are trying to do is to solve the problems related to housing, as a result of which in recent years there have been thousands of Basque citizens who have suffered too much. And, therefore, our will has been to try to solve these problems. I am sure that the law is better, I am sure that some of the amendments tabled by the PP and the Basque Nationalist Party are perfectly reasonable, and some of those that have not been included could have been included, but, in any case, I believe that the text that we are finally going to vote on is coherent, and I believe that we are going to have an advanced, progressive and legally secure law, even though some of the spokespersons insist otherwise. I believe that the text is legally secure, advanced, progressive, indeed, and that it seeks to solve the problems of citizenship, and that it incorporates, as I said earlier, three issues that we consider essential. Beyond other issues, let us say, which we believe are not so important, the fact that subjective law has finally been included, the fact that it has finally been included that all public housing is exclusively for rent, leaving aside what is intended for rehabilitation, or the fact that a number of advanced policy measures have been incorporated to prevent evictions in the future, it makes us feel satisfied and makes us actually vote in favour of this housing law. Perhaps the simplest thing would have been to stay out of it, wash our hands and wait for other groups to agree on a much less progressive text. Perhaps it would have been most comfortable, but we did not want to adopt a comfortable position, but we wanted to incorporate into this text, we wanted to join, and we have tried to assert our only vote so that those issues that we consider relevant will finally be incorporated into the law. Let us see, in relation to the canon for uninhabited housing, we must say that for its application a number of requirements must be met that are perfectly clear and that are perfectly guaranteed. Uninhabited housing shall be deemed to be that which remains permanently vacant for a period of more than two years, unless there is a justified cause. It is stated that there are grounds for continued unemployment in the case of second-residence dwellings, as well as in cases of transfer of domicile on grounds of work, health, dependency or social emergency which justify the need to temporarily vacate the dwelling, or where the owner keeps it on offer for sale or rent at market prices, as well as in other situations equivalent to those mentioned above. I therefore believe that this is a sufficiently guaranteed text, and therefore those calls to fear that have been made by certain institutional representatives have seemed to us to have been absolutely out of place. They have tried to shift fear to society as a whole, when what they had to do is move hope, because this is a good law that will have positive consequences. In addition, the canon is a relatively common measure in other countries of our environment: social-democratic, liberal and neoliberal governments maintain policies of this kind in order to mobilize the underutilized residential park and respond to the demand for housing without starting to build in an excessive way. Thus, in England a house is declared empty at six months, and the owner may be forced to rehabilitate, sell or rent it. In France, flats that are vacant for two years are punished in areas with more than 200,000 inhabitants with housing shortages. In Belgium, all regions penalize empty housing with rates that vary from place to place; expropriation can also be achieved. In Italy the municipalities are entitled to increase the tax equivalent to the IBI to double if the flat does not occupy it anyone. In Germany, urban transformation agreements are envisaged in which those affected may waive certain rights and assume the use of empty floors. That is to say, this fact is already taken up in other countries in our environment. I mean, I think it's a good law, and we don't think it's gonna turn into wet paper at all. I think it will have positive consequences for society as a whole. It is curious that there are those who deny the subjective right to decent housing, and yet have, over the last few months, defended the subjective right to conciliation aid, for example, when I believe that the issue of housing is a sufficiently relevant one. It is also curious that anyone who opposes this law because it contains the subjective right to a decent home, and yet on the part of the other group, the Basque Nationalist Party, says that the subjective right already exists in Euskadi. It seems to us a contradiction. In any case, this subjective right must be established by the Basque Government itself by regulation, and we will be very careful to see exactly how it does so. It is also said that this law will lead to an increase in budgetary resources relating to housing, and there is talk of a possible economic impact even unabsorbable for public coffers. We don't believe it. We think that a lot of money is spent on health care, as it should be; a lot of money is spent on education, as it should be; a lot of money is spent on social spending, as it should be; and a lot of money must also be spent on housing. And, therefore, the chip will have to be changed, and in particular some will have to change the chip and realize that this is a fundamental right, which must be protected by the government, and that obviously implies the availability of economic resources. Finally, cut back on the other hand, reform the Basque institutional framework, propose reforms to rationalise superfluous spending, fight more and better against tax fraud, reduce allocations for matters that are clearly less important than this, or drastically reduce everything related to public enterprises, entities and foundations of all kinds that continue to pounce on our geography without any other objective than placing supporters of one political party or another. That is, there is a lot of superfluous spending in Euskadi to say that this law is going to assume that a lot of economic resources have to be mobilized. This, therefore, is essential: in fact, financial resources must be allocated to guarantee the right to decent housing. Finally, with regard to the amendments tabled by the other groups, or which remain, with regard to the Socialist Group's amendments, we would vote in favour of Amendment No 83 to Rule 57a. We would vote against the particular vote on Article 54 concerning the deposit of bonds, although I believe that they have reached a compromise with the Basque Nationalist group, and we would vote against that compromise. We would vote in favour of the Socialist Group's particular vote on the explanatory statement, which was deleted at the last meeting of the Housing Committee as a result of the vote against by EH Bildu. We would support the re-emergence of that explanatory statement. And we would also vote in favour of the fourth transitional provision, in particular the socialist particular vote on the fourth transitional statement. We will vote against all the amendments which are still alive and which are from the Basque Nationalist group. I must say on this point that I believe that Amendments Nos 570 and 571 which the Basque Nationalist Group maintains, if I am not mistaken, are already incorporated into the legal text. In any case, we would vote against all the others. With regard to the UPyD amendments, we withdraw all except 367 for the deletion of the transitional provision relating to the deposit of lease bonds. We would therefore withdraw all but 367. And we would vote against all the amendments that the EH Bildu Group maintains. With regard to the amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, we would vote in favour of... , we would like to vote in favour of 128, where the issue of the victims of terrorism is incorporated. Anyway, I am optimistic, I think it is a good law, I think we have incorporated very relevant issues, and I think it will help to solve the serious problems that thousands of Basque citizens have suffered in recent years. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u18	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again. I do not even think that time is running out, because the truth is that the position of the Group of the European People's Party was made clear in the first intervention. Man, I have no doubt, Mr Maneiro, that you consider this to be a very good law, of course, bearing in mind that you have your support, and in all that Mr Maneiro supports, just because you have your support, your perfection is already beyond doubt. But, jokes from these aside, I did want to leave two clear questions from the beginning, because the left groups seem to have an extension that the rest of the groups that we do not militate on the left do not have. And it seems that in this country only the left is the defender of rights, besides a natural defender, and the rest not. Moreover, rights can only be defended in the way the left defends them and says what the left says, and if you don't say that already, rights are not guaranteed. You have come to say, Mr Itxaso, that from the People's Group we believe that rights are mere declarations. No, no, No, no, But what's not worth either, and here's the second thing I wanted to make clear... I believe that I have tried, both during the whole debate on this bill and here today in this rostrum, to be absolutely respectful. That does not mean that I do not say or that it does not reveal what I think any of the contents of the law. That doesn't mean. I have not done an exercise, as you have said, Mr Itxaso, of ridicule, at all. My intention has not been to ridicule at all the proponents of this law or those who are going to vote in favour, but that does not mean that, if in certain matters contained in this law, or in the objectives that are finally to be achieved by this law, we have an opinion as a political group, it will not make it clear here. You, Mr. Itxaso, were talking about the subjective right to housing, as if that were a panacea. As if, if that subjective right is not recognized, it is possible to claim it jurisdictionally, all those who do not recognize that are denying Basques the right to have access to decent, adequate and accessible housing. Moreover, it is not that we recognize it here in this House, it is that the Constitution recognizes it. But there are many rights, many constitutionally recognized. And what does that mean, that if they are not declared as such subjective rights are not fulfilled? And I'll tell you more, Mr. Itxaso. I have told you before that housing policy has been a failure, that of nationalist governments and that of their government as well. And you said there was a lot of unmet demand about housing needs. And why did not the Socialist Government make it effective? Why didn't that demand come true? Why didn't those rights come into effect? What were you waiting for, that subjective rights were declared, and only at the time that subjective rights were declared, did they now have to be fulfilled? No! No! It's about will, it's about will, and that's what's going to end up after this law. Because from respect, and without falling into absurdity, I have not said that the law is wet paper. I said that if you don't have an economic cover behind you you can turn it into wet paper. And of course we are here to do politics, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, of course, but politics is not to generate what we believe – not in your opinion, of course –... which in our opinion is to generate expectations that, if you do not have a cover behind, can be frustrated, can be frustrated. And to do politics is also, beyond the great declarations, to generate legal instruments that cannot then be challenged for multiple competitive reasons, of the State or of the historical territories. It is also a policy to ensure that the regulatory instruments that come out of here cannot be challenged, which are legally secure. And of course it's about ideology, and different ways, and everyone has their vision, that's clear. But what is also true is that in this legislative draft that is to be adopted there is a clear affection for the right to property, which, apart from being a right that constitutionally, and according to article 149, it is appropriate to regulate it and limit it to the State, apart from that, is as easy as saying "You do not believe in the right to property, you have to disappear the right to property". Okay! In the Constitution, the right to property should disappear! It's an option. But what cannot be done is to obviate that several of the precepts of this regulation totally and absolutely clash with the right to property. And of course it's about ideologies. For there are progressive ideologies – which already, as we put the progressive adjective, saves everything – but those ideologies like to intervene, penalize and force. And this group likes to encourage and push. That those encouragement measures were perhaps not the right ones? I can agree. I can agree. But what can't be done is, as they have not been correct, so let's not take any encouragement measures. No, no, What needs to be done is to analyse why they have not been used, and where appropriate correcting errors; mistakes made, as I say, by all political parties. We're not in the government. At this particular moment we would not have to worry about whether or not there is budget availability. But on account of responsibility, and because citizens cannot have expectations that they will then be frustrated, we have to worry about whether there is budget availability or not. And here it has been said... that I can agree, Mr. Maneiro, with one of the expenses that you wanted to reduce. If I can agree! But it just goes beyond those reductions. So, the question is... Of course, it's about making priorities, he says. Of course, Mr Itxaso, of course it is a matter of making priorities! In the next budget you, through amendments, are going to carry out these priorities. So, you haven't said here which items you're going to lower to have enough economic funds to enforce this law. Which ones? Or what are you going to do, ask for more debt? Man, I understand that you're very well-off and you're very happily indebted, of which I have no doubt. Of course, then there are others who are in charge of getting out of bankruptcy and trying to save what you have left behind. Because there is a bad habit that debts have to be paid. If not, you tell Greece. But, well, you guys are leaving, and he'll pay back. And, of course, they're in the opposition now... because they'll pay others. But you have to pay for your responsibility, you have to pay for it. Then say it clearly. There are three options that I have told you: either they raise taxes, or they lower certain items, or the Basque Government is further indebted. Which of the three options do you choose? Because the land money doesn't run, eh! I want to finish the way I started. Neither the left in this country nor those who are going to pass this law here today are the only ones who have the prerogative to guarantee the rights of citizens. Not at all, not at all. We are strong advocates that housing (the right to decent, adequate and accessible housing) must be a right of all Basques, and the public authorities of Euskadi must guarantee it especially to those who have less economic resources, of course. And we will support the parties to that end. But I keep saying, from respect and without falling into abstraction, that this law is not going to guarantee that right. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u20	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Ichaso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u21	You do not know, Mrs Llanos, how much I thank you for making it easier for me to clearly separate what are two great conceptions that have been prefigured in the history of political thought: conservative approaches, progressive approaches. I don't know if this tells you anything, but in the history of political ideas this is perfectly coined over time. But before entering the debate, with the questions you have raised, I would indeed like to thank Mr Maneiro for his support for the amendment and the particular votes he has put forward in order to give consistency and consistency to the text. Mrs Beitialarrangoitia too, although she expressly tells me that I must not necessarily thank her. I have to admit openly that your political group has maintained a political height and a height of vision worthy of recognition, and I am therefore once again expressing it. And in that sense I must say that, left or not left, left and right, I am here as a socialist. Etymologically socialist comes from the social, and what we have tried to sponsor is a law that has a character and a social content. Whether we have succeeded or not, time will tell. Indeed, a law requires regulatory development, and it will therefore be obliged to do so in order to develop a regulation that, in line with the spirit that encourages the law, limits it, defines it and allows it to be applied more justly, more socially and closer to the purpose and spirit that encourages this law. You asked me a number of questions at the last moment of your speech. I don't want to miss the answer. The money, the financing, the sources of funding for this issue that you raise with me, are in a report of duplicity that speaks of more than four hundred million being repeated in the institutional framework. That is why I believe that this calculation that is being made, which can be real or can be approximated, would be financed and financed more than enough. Undoubtedly, the provision of these services has a cost, but we understand that, in the hierarchy of priorities, the right to satisfy housing needs is fundamental. Yeah, a lot of things are said. Does the law suffer from many issues? Possibly from a technical point of view. I won't be the one to offer resistance to all these things right now. It will then be the legal and other operators who are in charge of raising their gaps, difficulties, or perhaps glossing over and praising their progress. Because what is involved when a law is proposed is precisely to move forward, to move forward, to move forward on the existing status quo. You, Mrs Llanos, like us, have commonly called us constitutionalists, and speaking of rights I want to say that there are diametrically opposed views on what is constitutional in the area of rights. Or is it an invention of this parliamentarian that in the time when his party is ruling there is a very clear involution in public rights and freedoms? I am not going to make an enumeration, but it is that the conception of rights is not the same, for nothing. Not to mention that judgment which you refer to the Constitutional Court – which, by the way, has four very well-reasoned particular votes – on the progressive re-centralisation of the state in terms of vertebration and jurisdictional distribution. Because, of course, it turns out that first they start by appealing nothing more and nothing less than the sacrosanct right to property, but in the end they end up solving with this a question of the economic planning of the State, which, of course, according to that, would eventually absorb everything and would emptie directly the competences that the autonomous communities have assigned, especially ours. Anyway, I'm not going to comment on that sentence, whatever it is that brings me trouble, but it's really aurora boreal. Therefore, the conception of rights, Mrs Llanos, is not unique. It is not univocal even from the same normative body, from the same order or from a constitution such as the Magna Charter. There are various interpretations. And we have interpreted that in the matter of housing a law was needed, as you have said, but a law in the light of our time, after having lived the episodes that have lived, after having known how this society, so advanced in so many things, breaks, fails, does not work when dealing with essential issues. Because the right to housing is basic, because it is equipped with many others without which it would be difficult to apply. And I am not going to enumerate them because on this much has been written, it has been written enough, and moreover, in the end, with more clarity than the one I can expose here. That the law that has been sought here to sponsor will have deficits, like all human works. It will then be necessary, tomorrow, to articulate other majorities to be perfected and corrected, but always waiting for this to be the spirit that encourages further modifications; that is to protect, that is to guarantee. And if there really are adequate housing policies, if they actually happen... Of course we have our lights and our shadows, and we also, in the end, have our deficits when it comes to management, but it is not because of lack of will, believe me. There are many issues that are not yet finalized at the time of a government. Specifically this one that comes here today has not been completed in the previous legislature. But perseverance, constancy, which is the mother of all virtues, has allowed it to arrive here in this other legislature, and with a majority. I am very sorry, indeed – I am not saying this for you, that I believe that your ideological political position is clearly visible and reconcilable – but it leads me much more to the position of the Basque Nationalist Party, to which I attribute a more social conception than all that, and I think that its support for this law, in addition to giving it a greater rank of consensus, would somehow also portray you as the party I believe you are. I believe that the rejection that they maintain of this law is quite contrary to what is their heritage and their tradition. I encourage you to ultimately support the law, or at least, as the case may be, the Government is carrying out regulatory development with the best will and in the spirit most faithful to the rule that is being developed. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u22	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Madam de Beital, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u23	Thank you, and good day to all again. I may agree, Mrs. Llanos, with what you say, that it is true that the name of the subjective right is not necessary for politics to exercise a right. But it is more than this, that the pretty ones of long years have brought us to a worse condition, and that the goings of last years may be one of the extremes. And therefore, if it be not really a step to acknowledge it, and to take the part of that right, which obliges the public institutions, it is not really to execute it as it ought to be. And I think that we who are doing it, are therefore doing it for the sake of being a subjective right. And by the way, because we believe that rights can be very numerous, but that some are fundamentals to lead a worthy life. As no one doubts that education or health are fundamental, or that they have a fundamental income to live, we take the same place. We don't leave him at a second level. And we are not saying that all rights are not right, or that all rights ought to be subjective. But we understand the housing. And for the purpose of this view, we propose what we propose. And, of course, you've mentioned a number of laws here, some of which I don't like so much, and some more, of course, there's a right to the housing, beginning with the Human Rights expression. But is it a right to take effect today? Well, thousands and thousands of people don't. And therefore when there is an impossibility of producing a right, it is what we must think: where is the solution, or where is the problem? But we must do something to make that right actually work out. And I think the law is good for that. Because you said that we are defending handling and torturing him. And what I ask is: When the people, when they leave them in the empty street, have nothing but property, and cannot pay a rent, what do they ask of us? Let us reason, a clap on our backs, and so on? Or are they asking us to take our hand? Well, they're asking us to take our hand, they're asking us to measure them, that is, intervention. Of course I am. And I'll tell you more, our team is in favor of the interference if that means that we're going to favor the basic rights of people and today and tomorrow and tomorrow we'll do it tomorrow and the day after. In return, it is my feeling that those who defend the non-interbence want private property without protecting the citizens from the logic of the market. And I'm not responsible for that mistake. Because sometimes it means taking hands instead of overcoming the interests of the people, those others get bigger, and I don't agree with that. And you mentioned this law against private property. No, I disagree. Perhaps it is in the use of private property to participate in, and I believe they are two very different concepts. This law does not say that people cannot have a home, does not say that private property is bad. What he says must not be forgotten is that this element of your property in this case is an inheritance with a housing, a social function. And that social function is having someone's own place. Because we're not defending everyone's got to be a home in property, we're defending everyone's needin' everybody's place to live. And so, so far as he has that social function, if he doesn't give it that social function, I won't tell him he can't do it, but I'm asking him to do it, looking at the need for a basic right, to make a contribution to society. And that's what canon asks: or to refuse social function, or to make a house or contribution to society. And I don't want to oppose private property with that, but I don't think it's acceptable to give a private property any use in an element so fundamental. I think we're defending different views. And I will not say, that it cannot defend the rights and gratitude, or vice versa, that I shall not enter into that dispute, and shall not enter into it. But at the same time, I will not allow them to say that we care not how much money is necessary for the rights of the law, and that those who oppose it are of importance to it. Here I think this concerns us all, but some think there is such a question as to make it possible for us to place it between the higher grounds, and to set it before other charges. And there's money to do? Of course he is. It's just what he spends on. But not only because it's an alternative or out of some games I'd say where, but it's not up to the argument today. And, by the way, to say that I don't think it a bad thing to owe it to itself, and to what end it owes itself. If the welfare and fundamental rights of society are to guarantee, welcome. But even then, I don't think that's the only alternative. But I'm not going to go in there either, or I'm going to argue with budgets. Probably we should look at the incomes, not just where we can get the expenses or owe them, but where do we get the income? And not exactly to tax him any more, perhaps, that he who has more will pay more, and that we may at last have an effective and just tax system. And this would give us means, if we were really able to cover our needs, without having to remove anything that is necessary. But it's true that we're here across a lot of discussions that are probably not today, but are basically underlying. And as for what the Jestric Party said, so also he said that the consequences must be made known. I agree. To Mr. Aburto, who was the chief physician of the department at that time, I told him at that time that the care of Mr. Toñaa belongs to Mr. Toña, that we might be able to solve the problem of the house in 150 million years. But this law, as I have said, will not solve all the problems, we will need many other additional measures, that it is not only money. But I want to clear up one thing at the same time, and I think, as may be defended by different views, it is not very good to deal with false facts, or at least to use the data in a very wrong manner. Mr. fountain himself admitted that 90,000 houses are empty, 22,000 of which are available. And he has tried to bring us into contact with this, that there has been no will by private means to guarantee domestic necessity, by construction, for the sake of an agreement. And he's used the number of people who ask for the housing funds, 12,000. Well, I can also get another piece of information. Those who want to buy 90,000 empty houses and 12,000, but they were not much more than 40,000 other, and it's a significant fact that we're at 390,000 now, not because these eight thousand people are satisfied with their need of homes. Is it really our problem how we guarantee that houses will be built? Don't we really think that if we don't deny the social function to those houses, if these houses aren't available, we'll solve the problem in a large part of the day? So, in the heart of the problem, there's no way of keeping what's to be done in construction. And I'm not going to try to build the dede Luego and go back to the times to build, because I'm sure I've built some people's profits, but people follow without homes, that's what's the dynamic of the last years. And then you have mentioned that there is no political protection from the majority. I do not know whether the acquisition of the majority in this legislature means the political protection of the majority, or you have mentioned whether it is the case with the collective citizens who complain. For I think that this law satisfies more than the attitudes of the contrary to this law, and those who walk about it for many years. Then I don't quite understand this. And what you've made a trap is that the subjective right is admitted through RGI, preparing to pay for the housing rent. Horseshit. And with a simple example I will deny what you have said. It is a pity that we now have the reality in society, that some one will have at home, young and not so young, at a public work, and for a month's sum of money, at 700 euros. They don't have the help to pay the rent, because they don't pay the RGI because they're a little hard at work, and because they can't have a job, even if it's a dean and they're a disgrace to pay for it. I, on the other hand, can be there because I have no other way to charge the RGI, because I can't find the job, and I've been charging the same amount, and I've got other help to pay the rent. Is this a fair situation? By this we may say that the subjective right is guaranteed? It's confirmed for those who charge the RGI, but it's not for everyone who needs to be guaranteed. So there's a big difference. And this law means that those who charged the RGI won't have a PCV now? No. They will have this right acknowledged by this law in another way, not necessarily to collect this or that fundamental income of the RGI. So I think that's cheating too. And lastly, I have said in the first Intervention, and I shall repeat, that the want of legal security, both of bad text, and of bad text, partly demonstrates that some of them use courts to restrain the laws which lead a direction contrary to their policy, which is not permitted. And the other, as I said before, is to prove that lawyers are good lawyers, who sit here opposite me. We're all parliamentary, we're politicians, people choose us to find solutions, and that's what we have to do, and no one is smarter than anyone. And if the president will lend me his last word, Mr. Toña. From now on, it'll be on your side to take this law to practice. We know, I admit, it's a huge job, but if you really have the will to develop it, you'll have this team to help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. And in the end, Mr. Altarga, the Eubertarian, representative of the group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u25	Thank you, ma'am. On subjective law, Mr Itxaso, to say that our group is against it is, plainly and plainly, a lie. The same goes for Mrs Beitialarrangeith. There are 30,000 families who today receive additional housing benefits. In this respect, I have to say that 40% of the state-wide social aid in this area is provided in the Basque Country. You have taken up the right to housing in relation to the right to education, and, apart from the different location in the constitutional text and the legal and political importance of this, and of the twenty years lost by the Socialist Party to materialize it, it seems to me to be an interesting exercise of reflection. Reflection on the right to education, which is defined as a public service and which, according to the results in Euskadi, we could describe as satisfactory. It turns out that education (comparing housing with education), compulsory education, affects 200,000 children and young people, but here in the public network there is only 50 %, the other 50 % is in the private network, of which, by the way, the third part is in the network of Ikastolas. In other words, a public service provided by private companies with substantial public aid. Well, according to this proposed law, it will turn out that no public resources will be allocated for social housing promoted by individuals. And we say: if public resources are not to be allocated to the homes that individuals build, why are they forced to have three out of four houses of public protection? What opinion would you deserve if the Department of Education were to force ikastola Olabide, for example, to teach classes, if she decided to close because they were not profitable? Surely we would agree on the assessment. That is why our approach is to create the conditions for all people to be able to realize their right to housing. Also for those who cannot materialise it, as I say, because they cannot access public aid, as their income exceeds 39,000 euros. That is, also for those families who cannot access public housing because they exceed the level of income. And, on the budgetary impact of subjective law, society demands that the taxes paid by citizens be administered with probity, that we act with rigour and seriousness in the management of public resources. It also facilitates social housing for those most in need. With regard to the problem of evictions and temporary expropriation, we have already explained our position, and the text you propose is an exercise in legislation for the gallery, which serves to make propaganda, but in the long run it is a waste of time and effort that generates frustration, as has already been said. The proponents must tell the anti-discharge associations that the Basque Government cannot implement the proposed measure. They have incorporated an approach without the necessary reflection on the impact of the implementation of this future law on civil procedural regulation and mortgage. In our view, the subjective right, or the right of use of housing in the form recognized here, cannot be opposed in a process of foreclosure. So what is intended, that is to expropriate the right of the buyer or owner, as appropriate in each case, to the possession of the house, must be opposed to a final judicial decision, which is condemned in advance to failure. And this is regulated in a civil law that is not available to the Autonomous Community. And we agree that it doesn't make much sense to throw people on the street so that the house is empty. It is true that to propose this solution to the problem, even if temporarily, we understand that it is a matter that, despite its small incidence in Euskadi, must be resolved within the Congress of Deputies in Madrid. Because can you tell me, if not, what public interest lies in expropriating the house to a landlord because the tenant does not pay the rent to which he has committed? Is it not more reasonable, as we propose, to offer the tenant a social rental home than to expropriate the owner? And, although it is wrong to say that the measures you propose do not solve the problem in Euskadi, we prefer not to deceive people. On empty housing, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, I would like to say that in Euskadi there is little 8% of the housing stock. It is the community that has the lowest index. The Spanish average is 13 %; the navarra is 11.5 %. But it is also necessary to analyze the importance of housing in relation to the territory: it turns out that there is a greater incidence of empty housing in the municipalities of less than 2,500 inhabitants, which is 5.7%; in the municipalities of 4,000 to 10,000 is 4, and in the capitals... , in Gasteiz 5 %, in Donostia 3,3 and in Bilbo 1,6 %. I mean, there's less empty housing where demand is higher. Therefore, empty manageable housing does not solve the problem of demand, and it is therefore necessary to build more housing, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia. Moreover, in our view, the report is still very encouraging, let's say, because it does not analyse the possible modification of dwellings taking into account other aspects that have a lot of influence, such as the quality of dwellings, whether they are habitable or not, whether they have acceptable quality standards, and how many of them have the energy efficiency certificate. Although it is already pointed out in this report that approximately 40 % or more do not have gas per pipe or heating. We therefore have a serious problem in terms of rehabilitation, which, we insist, has been overtaken and there is no serious response to this problem. And finally, on the idea that all sheltered housing should be rented, it implies, as I said in my first speech, a smooth and purely counterproductive political mandate to offer a solution to the housing problem in Euskadi. Thus, for example, in the new urbanizations we have already said that three out of four new dwellings are forced to have the character of social housing, but without any form of public aid, as we have seen when we talked about the right to education, and also under rent. Is anyone thinking that there will be private owners willing to build these rented houses at the prices that apply to social housing? The answers were obtained the other day in the Employment Committee. And the law proposed to us, ladies and gentlemen, will go beyond the proposals of the municipal program of the anti-capitalist Ada Colau for the City Council of Barcelona. This lady supports allocating public resources to the construction of social housing by individuals, and you don't. And to the thread of this question I would like to bring up here a sentence of Mr Burón, vice-advisor of Housing of the time of Mr Madrazo, collected in a work of his recently published, which says the following: "The cry of 'All shelter protected, for rent' that is heard in broad sectors of Spanish society already know, through the comparative studies of public housing policies, that it cannot be the basis of broad-spectrum public policies, sustained in time without dysfunctionalities". We say this: if all public aid is allocated to rent, how will the 12,500 homeowners registered in Etxebide be treated? You have a problem, which is that you refuse to accept reality, and the reality is that 77% of the housing transactions of the last ten years in Euskadi are being carried out in a market that operates outside what you propose. And the reality is that people demand property, not just the 12,500 registered in Etxebide. Hegel already said: "If reality doesn't go according to the idea, there is reality with its problem." And by paraphrasing it we could say: if the housing law does not fit reality, worse for reality. And the former President of Uruguay, José Mujica, has also said this in a recent interview explaining the difference between proposals and actions when you have government responsibilities. He said, "The problem is reality." And he was absolutely right, because one thing is intentions and ideology, and another very different ability to act. We try to solve real problems, and if real problems are not solved populists flourish, and, as Michael Ignatieff has said, "populists are the ones who offer false solutions to real problems." And some of this is what's in this matter. Thank you. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u26	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Now that the discussion's over, we'll start the vote. Before the vote began, UPyD says that he withdraws all the rest except the amendment. Does the Popular Party withdraw any of them?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u27	Yes, Madam President. I withdraw 177, 178 and 179 because they are reflected in the compromise amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u28	All right, all right. Eubertarians?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u29	Barkatu. It is the number 547 and 551 that we withdraw.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u30	Collect EH... ? No. Okay, then we'll start the vote. The first vote will be the medium of half-rational correction made between the special vote made by the Basque Socialists to Article 50, and the Eucerators between the 539th team. But tell me, in the first place, that this half-rational correction has a slight defect: and where 'tis said to be a champion, 'tis a procession. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 53; the opposites are 22; white, 0; abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u31	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Next, we vote for 47 of the EH Collect Group to take it away. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 54; white; 0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u32	So he's not accepted. The Euscalia Socialist votes for the fourth transitory regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u33	It's accepted. Next up, Euskal Group 234. Correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 37; the opponents are 38. white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u34	So this correction is not allowed. Then the Eubertians vote for team 591. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 38. white, 0; abstentions are 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u35	So this correction is not accepted. The only correction Miss Misto-UPyD has reserved for articles is 367. Correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters 1, 74; the opponents are white, 0; abstenations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u36	So this correction is not accepted. Next up, the Euscal Populars are the articles that are reserved for the articles.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u37	We call for a block vote. The first would be amendments 87, 102, 103, 104, 105, 124, 132, 133, 135, 136, 138, 145, 148, 158, 160, 161, 162, 163, 166, 167, 169, 171, 185, 188, 196, 201, 205, 236 and 243. And on the other hand, the rest of the amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u38	Bear wave.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u39	Yes, President, 128, please be separate.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u40	Then we vote for the first 128. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given are 75; the supporters are 11; the opponents are 64; white, 0; abstenations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u41	This amendment has not, therefore, been accepted. Then we will vote 87, 102, 103, 103, 104, 124, 134, 133, 1336, 136, 136, 1438, 1458, 160, 161, 163, 163, 163, 1666, 166, 169, 1731, 185, 188, 196, 201, 205, 236, and 243. The amendments. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 37; the opponents are 38. white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u42	Thus all these amendments have not been accepted. Next we vote for the other amendments. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters 10; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u43	Thus the rest of the amendments have not been accepted. Next, we'll put Basque Socialists to vote with the 83th team to produce a new article of 56. bis. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u44	Thus the amendment has been admitted. Next up, collect the EH articles and we vote for the amendments that are reserved for the articles. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 54; white; 0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u45	Thus the amendments have not been accepted. It is agreed that the eubertaries of the eubertaries are reserved for the articles. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 38. white, 0; abstentions are 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u46	The corrections are not therefore accepted. The articles that have been corrected at the same time are put to the vote. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u47	54. I don't know if the article is approved by a private vote, because it was recommended. And the other is to the same subject, that is to say, to trust, to the depositary, which is the fourth of the sixth transient regulation, which is the fourth of judgment. I think that las dos están endendas. [[Berber]] This is the sixth passing regulation, the fourth of the judgment. He trusts the tank. [[Berber]] We ask them to vote apart.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u48	Barkatu, but Article 54... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u49	They're the ones who've made a middle-way with Article 54. Okay. And then, isn't that article voting again? That's the question. Because that's a different vote for us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u50	You have to admit it's all middle-class.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u51	The middle cut, yes, that's clean. It's not accepted. That's clear to me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u52	We voted for the amendments. [[Berber]] Well, then, that's clear. And what you want to vote is apart from the transitory regulation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u53	There is a temporary regulation that concerns this subject, 54. With the article, and what we've increased. So I'd like to think that's the vote between the ones that've grown up, if lawyers don't say anything against me. And we, compared to everything else, have a different vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u54	You want to give another vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u55	That's it. And the sixth is the fourth of judgment, and belongs to the same subject, al depósito de fianzas. In other words, let legal lawyers say it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u56	What is valid is a transaction. The middle term is accepted. That's what counts. Well, we'll have the vote again. We've stayed here on articles that have been corrected. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u57	So it's accepted. After this there is a middle-direction, made up of an additional regulation, a middle-direction signed by all parties. Then we vote for that. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 74; the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0,0; white; 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u58	The extra regulations have been agreed on one mouth. The articles that don't have any corrections are put to vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given, 75; the supporters of the league, 38; the opponents of the enemy, 28; white, 0; abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u59	So they're accepted. Euskal Socialists vote for the special vote that the team talks about. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 37; white, 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u60	So it's accepted. After this, Eucabertarians shall vote for three47 team corrections. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 74; the votes given, 75; the supporters, 27; the opponents of the enemy, 38; white, 0; abstations, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u61	So he didn't accept it. Next, correction of the Euscalic Popula Group 244, from 248 to 248, and, from 250 to 260, we will vote the amendment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters 10; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u62	So they didn't accept it. It's a vote for the US patriots on team 386. Correcting the title of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 38. white, 0; abstentions are 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u63	This correction is not accepted. And in conclusion, we vote for the title of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 38; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u64	So the title of the law is accepted. So the Housing Act is approved. (There were shouting among the guests) Silence, please! Out, please! [[Berber]] Third point in theme list: "Mution introduced by Gorka Maneiro Labayen Misto-UPyD members of the legislature, about the steps to plan another law on the public administration. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u65	Thank you, President. Two years ago we presented a parliamentary initiative to urge the Basque Government to present in this Parliament a draft law on transparency which contains a number of principles, twelve, which we consider fundamental, namely the following: The right to access to information is a fundamental right of everyone. The right of access to information applies to all public entities, to all the powers of the State and to all private entities performing public functions or receiving public money, regardless of the amount of public money. The right of access to information applies to all information produced, received or held by public entities, regardless of how it is stored. Making requests must be simple, fast and free of charge. Staff members have an obligation to assist applicants. The secrecy and denial of information are the exception. Denial of access to any information should be exceptional. Denials of access to information should be limited and duly motivated. Everyone has the right to appeal against denials of access or non-respondence to requests made. Public entities, on their own initiative, should make basic and essential information available to the public, without the need for an application. The right of access to information must be guaranteed by an independent body. The Government, through its institutions, will be primarily responsible for the promotion of the law and the new tools provided by the law. The last principle we consider fundamental: penalties will be established in the law in relation to the offences committed. We therefore requested, by November 2013, a law of transparency of its own and independent, a law differentiated from the rest of the Basque legislation, and in particular separate from the rule that could govern and discipline the work of the Basque public administration. A law of advanced transparency, worthy of that name. A law that would provide citizens with knowledge of all the information available to the various institutions and would go beyond national law, which we have already criticized in the Congress of Deputies for being clearly insufficient. In the justification of that initiative we said that citizens need access to all that information that allows them to know and evaluate objectively the activities of the different public institutions. Such information should be considered as the property of citizens. That public administrations and the public sector must actively generate information relevant to the understanding of their activity and must make it accessible to citizens. That the exercise of the right of access to public documents fosters the integrity, effectiveness, efficiency and responsibility of public authorities, thus contributing to strengthening their legitimacy. All recorded information, in any form prepared or received and in the possession of the authorities, is public. That all persons have the right to request any information from all administrations and institutions, without having to explain why they want it or what use they will give it, and have the right to receive a reply in a short time and in a clear and understandable format. That measures to improve the transparency of public management are particularly effective in times of political or economic crisis, or in periods of public mistrust in institutions, such as ours, as they induce a better and more effective functioning of political institutions, administrations and the public sector, by introducing principles of public assessment and monitoring of the outcome of administrative decisions. That the development of information and communication technologies makes it possible today to implement systems of public access to unthinkable information just a few years ago, and therefore there can be no excuse for not activating all that information to society as a whole. That any entity or person benefiting from public aid must also report publicly on the use of such aid and submit its activity to external audit and evaluation of results. That legal action in favour of transparency and good governance, with particular emphasis on combating corruption, waste and mismanagement, is not in itself sufficient to achieve these objectives. In addition, the public and private institutions most involved in their development must be reformed, i.e. those institutions that offer opportunities for the practices of opacity, waste and corruption. Active transparency policies also have important and positive economic and financial implications. And from there we presented our initiative to urge the Government to submit within a maximum of six months, we said, a transparency bill that is governed by the democratic principle that citizens' right is above all else, and that takes into account and corrects the limitations of the recently adopted national transparency law. This law of transparency, we asked, must respect and comply with the principles I have previously stated. We also proposed that this Parliament urge the Government to develop a transparency portal that would accommodate all information relating to the Administration, where at least the remuneration and compensation for the service of elected officials, senior officials and members of the Government could be reflected; the registration of activities, assets and interests of elected officials, senior officials and members of the Government; the entire recruitment of the Basque public administration; the temporary recruitment lists of staff; expenditure files that are not in conformity with the Intervention and that must be validated by the Governing Council; administrative concessions, partnership agreements and the subsidy regime of the Basque Government Administration; the updated inventory of administrative procedures; administrative and judicial resolutions; information that is most frequently requested; and public spending on institutional campaigns and their recipients. That is why we were introducing a good number of advanced demands to the present Government. We said that a record of contracts, a record of successful tenderers, a record of partnership agreements, and a record of grants should be included in that transparency portal. We were guided by the principle that any information recorded in any form, prepared or received and in the possession of the authorities, is public, so that it must be accessible to any person, and should be limited only when another legitimate right that may prevail over the right to information must be protected. Clearly, the information available to the institutions is from the citizens. The public authorities that meet these parameters, which provide relevant information to their citizens, are strengthened and legitimise their actions. It is good, therefore, for them and for everyone. Public authorities who assume that transparency is a fundamental right induce the more effective functioning of the institutions themselves. A transparent policy is conducive to limiting the spaces of opacity, which will also make it difficult for practices that promote corruption, clientelism, mismanagement, plugging or waste to do so much harm to democracy. The Basque Government finally decided to introduce its bill of the Basque Public Administration, which included matters relating to participation, transparency and access to information. When we looked at that bill, we said at the time that it was a short-lived bill and that it was far from the principles that we are defending and that we are already defending in this Parliament, and that is why we were presenting a good battery of partial amendments and also the corresponding amendment of the whole. We said that the draft submitted by the Government preferred to make an absolute follow-up of the national law on transparency, a law that we already criticize for insufficient at the time. By taking as a model a law that did not know how to adapt to the new times, the bill presented to us by the Basque Government was born very limited. It was part of national law, and it didn't go beyond that. Furthermore, the draft did not provide for a regime of legal sanctions in the event of non-compliance, or for transparency not to be an absolute right. But it is also that the first part of the bill that the Government brought to us, the one that referred to the organization of the Basque public administration, was also frankly improveable. Instead of considering a project that proposed a real reform of the Administration, that simplified its framework, that reduced and narrowed its range of entities and societies, it merely enumerated the different types of administrative bodies. It will hardly be possible to improve the perception of citizenship regarding the so-called public thing, its re-evaluation, contributing to the creation of a new administrative culture, as reflected in the introduction, if what is regulated does not attempt to simplify, clarify, reduce and modernise the complex Basque institutional framework. It was limited to listing the different types of entities and organs and how to create new ones, as if there were not enough at present. Instead of collecting mechanisms to simplify the Administration, a complex model was still in place. The Government therefore brought us a faracious bill, which did not take any step forward in that area. The bill should have set out how to regulate the justification of the demands of the current agencies, and the dissolution, merger, absorption of those that are considered unnecessary, introducing a time horizon for carrying out such operations. A strategy of simplification and reduction of the administrative framework, or control of externalisations or management orders, was not seen, nor was it even seen. Finally, we do not want to look too much back, but the fact is that the Basque Government used its legislative capacity as propaganda and cosmetic action. He permanently refused to engage in dialogue, to negotiate with the rest of the parliamentary groups, and in the end what he had to do, what he decided to do freely, was to withdraw that draft law on public administration. It was certainly curious to hear the Government's spokesman say that the Government was prepared to accept a number of partial amendments put forward by the different groups. He came to speak of more than 300 partial amendments that the Government was willing to accept, but beyond the deadline, when that draft had already been withdrawn. Therefore, there was no willingness to make a good law, there was no willingness to talk to the rest of the groups, there was no willingness, I believe, to pass that law, and it definitely withdrew. Finally, the truth is that from there we continue to think that it is absolutely essential for Euskadi to have a law of transparency differentiated from what would be the law referring to the public administration. Hence the motion that we have tabled and that basically defends that: to present before September 30, 2015 two bills, one on transparency and the other on the organization and functioning of the public administration, separate and independent, that comply with the fundamental principles that UPyD has defended in relation to this issue and the principles that have also defended other groups. Take into account those partial amendments that the rest of the groups are submitting, so that this law can be as advanced as possible, and can be adopted as soon as possible. Similarly, we also call on the Government to include in the public administration project the regulation and management of the public sector of all the administrations operating in Euskadi (the general, the foral and the local). Finally, a compromise has been signed, I believe, if I am not mistaken, between EH Bildu, Socialist Group and Basque Nationalist Group. I think it is well-received what we wanted, I think it is a good compromise, and we will therefore vote in favour of it. What is needed now, of course, is for this transaction to be carried out, for the Basque Government to do its work, and let us have these two bills as soon as possible. Two projects that are very important for Basque citizens. Surely both, but we would like to stress the importance of adopting an advanced, progressive transparency law that takes into account the time we live in, and that goes far beyond what is currently the national law adopted by the Spanish Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u66	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, Mrs. Gallingse, the Basque Socialist, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u67	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, Mr Maneiro, it seems that today we are going to do that debate that the Government did not want to do two months ago, when it fled the back door from a defeat, the result of an excess of prepotence and a lack of strategy. The circumstances have changed, ladies and gentlemen, yes, and although attempts were made to circumvent and cover up that own failure with accusations from others about supposed electoral interests, now, after the elections, it is shown that that debate, indeed, and those positions reflected in amendments to the whole, were absolutely relevant. The Councillor has already said this in an answer to the question from which this motion derives, and to a subsequent question from my own group: the Government has shown its willingness to address the law of transparency and the law of the Basque public sector on the line in which we have been proposing the majority of this House. The Government corrects, ladies and gentlemen. Good. But you can't let any more time pass. As I said two weeks ago, it was never so easy for an executive to make a law, because he knows in advance the position of the groups, which is reflected in the 625 amendments we recorded in his day and which have been available to the public since 23 March. So the context has changed, and the attitude of the Government seems to have changed. But, ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Socialist Group has not changed. As we intended on 23 April, we came to this debate to make an integral defence of the Basque public sector, and of radical transparency as a basic principle of operation for the future. It is therefore a positive debate, a debate that examines how our public sector should be organised in order to be more efficient in the provision of services, and how transparent we want that to be. That is why we called for the return of the text proposed by the Government, because it did not meet either of those two requirements that we consider fundamental. As you know, certain steps had already been taken in the past legislature, steps that, without the need for legislative changes, improved both the public sector and transparency, and those provisions that transformed these partial measures into a substantive reflection began to be designed. As a result of that reflection, a law of incompatibilities of high offices and a law of transparency was announced, which, as you know, none of them had a legislative track record in that legislature or had the opportunity to reach this House. However, we are committed to addressing them in this legislature. So we picked it up in our electoral programme, and we actually brought in the law of incompatibilities, which, as you all remember – I hope – ended up being unanimously adopted in this House just over a year ago. In the case of transparency, ladies and gentlemen, the Government said that it wanted to regulate it under another broader law, to which we are referring today, and we believe that we should grant that initiative to those who have the responsibility to govern. But the truth is that the result was a fiasco, because we were referred an expired law, lack of ambition, and useless in most of its articulated. It was a law, ladies and gentlemen, full of resignations. He renounced the use of all self-government to order this matter, and let state law be the backbone of the text. It renounced to smooth out the current duplications and simplify the framework in which citizens are now lost in their relationship with the different administrations. And he renounced the radical transparency, the radical transparency that citizens demand, letting much of the public budget escape from that control that is required of him, from the control over how everyone's money is spent. The Government of the Lehendakari Urkullu inherited the greatest advance of transparency that has taken place in Euskadi. The government of the lehendakari Urkullu inherited Irekia, Open Data, the profile of the contractor, the regulation of the e-government, an internationally recognized and accredited opening experience, without any law obliging it to do so. And, in the face of this undeniable advance that he received from his predecessor, when it comes to giving legal form to that commitment, this Government intended to leave us (in this case it has been a legacy that better for inventory benefit) a bad copy of the timorata and absolutely insufficient state legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how we are going to move from head to tail in terms of transparency. We missed, for example, something so elementary, to which Mr Maneiro also referred, as a chapter devoted to the sanctioning regime in case of non-compliance. We lacked a political vocation to order, command, regulate and structure the whole of Euskadi. And as far as the public sector is concerned, we missed the intention to put order in the whole public sector. Also in the fora and local authorities, for which no general principles were established that would give coherence to the Basque public network. This lack implies assuming the current situation of jurisdictional division and its territorial articulation of the country, and this is when the Government itself has already referred to Parliament another law, another bill, in this case the municipal one. It makes no sense or sense to address a legal regulation that affects and conditions, and it also ignores other parliamentary initiatives that do condition its scope. As, for example, it did not take into account the Government's commitment to reform the Historic Territories Act itself. Socialists, ladies and gentlemen, we want to define precisely all the entities that make the functioning of the public possible: autonomous bodies, public bodies of private law, public societies, foundations, consortia... We want all of that to be handled well. It is also essential in law that the staffing system and the budget of the entire public sector be thoroughly monitored, with the objectives of efficiency and effectiveness, control and evaluation of the fulfilment of the purposes for which those bodies were created. And exactly the same is essential a clear objective of simplification of the current framework, which is complex, and on too many occasions ineffective and excessively expensive. We Socialists did not say strongly to the Government's proposal, because the citizens, who are ultimately the ones we represent, demand more from the public administrations. Basque society requires a modern administration, adapted to current needs, which brings economic value, added value to the society to which it serves, which is transparent, where the trace of each public euro can be traced. The Government did not want us to be able to confront these positions in the debate on amendments to the whole suspended in extremis, but I have to say that by then and now it is useful to say that we, the Basque Socialists, believe that the Government must forward a clear, ambitious project aimed at setting up and simplifying the Basque institutional framework, evaluating public policies, the e-government, for radical transparency, which forces public administrations to keep up with the demand for information from citizens, because the inability of a government cannot delay further the fulfilment of such a requirement. We have already said that we were prepared to take the legislative initiative on a matter that cannot wait any longer and that would leave us to the detriment, as I say, of the absolutely insufficient law of the Government of Spain. Now the government, however, the Basque Government, has committed itself to doing so, and in this debate today what we want to defend is that it does so with the tenet that the previous one lacked, listening to what a majority of this House demands: two separate laws, ambition, no complexes to act at all institutional levels, that meets the citizen's demand for efficiency in the provision of services and transparency in the use of resources, and that it be done from the broadest consensus, because, ladies and gentlemen, these two laws are called to endure over time. I repeat – and I am finishing – it has never been easier for a government to make laws and do so quickly. Now it is your responsibility to make this possible. And this, ladies and gentlemen, is what our amendment, the compromise amendment that we have signed and for which I call for the unanimous support of this House, reflects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u69	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. The motive which Mr. Maniero has brought with us today, in some way or another, brings us to a discussion which the Government has at its present time denied, but unfortunately we do not hear any of the Government here, and I should certainly be grateful to the other members of the legislature, if at least Mr. Erkorek had been present. It is essential to collect EH the organization of the public sector, and to have a law in the way of other efficiency, in the way of the good national service, in order to obliterate the differences, to adapt the means of syptlification and distinctness, in short, to answer the demands of society. It is absolutely necessary to be a public sector which is exemplary, and which extends to all the people, and employs public resources efficiently. and therefore the public sector must be regarded as indispensable in its activity, because society itself requires more and more firm steps in these matters. Mr. Maniro explains in particular the characteristics of the law of transparency in his motion, and even if we can agree, we have introduced to the law of the public administration, the projects of several groups, which the Government has withdrawn, the government in the new project of the legislation to which the corrections of the several parties are to be derived, as has been said, we see nothing new to-day to establish them here. We think it is already evident that several groups of men require much more from transparency the law which ought to be in this community, and that in our case there is a long way to be found in the subject of participation; but this, in our opinion, is not the discussion which we are to have today. We must have the discussion of the contents at the same time. Seen when the government's position was withdrawn from the law of public administration, which was confirmed by Mr. Erkoa here 15 days ago, the most important thing to do is to fix the frame for EH Collect. I mean, what's the application area of these two projects on our table today, that's what the key is for us today. Cool jaunaren interpelaziari weretzunez, Erkoreka jaunak argi utzi zuen. The Government, in fact, following the indications expressed in these amendments (not in the entirety, but in the partials of the House), is redrafting the text. Mr Urkullu's Government decided to withdraw the law on public administration at a short time before we had the debate on the amendments to the whole of this Parliament. He decided that this debate should not take place in this Chamber, hiding, as has already been said, in accusations of opportunism and electoralism to the groups that presented those amendments. And unfortunately these accusations were kept here fifteen days ago by Mr Erkoreka, and, for that reason in this last question, it seems that the Government has believed itself to be its own argument, and therefore has not even begun to analyse the content of these amendments in their entirety. We're clear about the entire public Basque sector in the Basque Country and the entire public sector, which is our frame. In the whole correction we presented to the law of public administration, we made it clear: with this law, it loses an excellent opportunity to establish rules in common for the whole of the public eupscal sector. Not only by determining the organization of various public sectors, the ground for function, the improvement of efficiency and the services of the citizens, but also of the 21st. the public administration and the public sector of the century fully developed the forms of government, fixed solid foundations for the fulfilment of the transparency, information, care, and assistance of the community. That's what we said, and today we say that. If we were to be sure that M.M. continues to limit the app-field of the laws to the public sector in the Renaissance, it would be an excellent opportunity to define public service by means of all the public administrations in our community. We would not understand in any way the opportunity to articulate a unified Basque public sector and, in turn, a more efficient administration of access to citizenship. From Euskal Herria Bildu, like many of the economic and social actors who have spoken on this issue, we consider it essential that we have a law that facilitates the proper management of public resources and deepens the efficiency of the administration; a law that gives the whole Basque public sector common objectives, purposes and principles, in the commitment to transparency, access to information, good governance and citizen participation. Laws, in short, that allow the Administration to respond adequately to the demands of the citizenry and become a vertebrate agent. And that's why we've introduced him to our correction today. We maintain our attitude, our attitude based on a certain way of understanding this town. And we're hoping that it would be a mistake to change and agree to introduce law only to the Central Public Sector. We hope you're on this business, for once, let him play with ambition. Finally, as has already been said, we have signed a transactional agreement with the PNV and the Socialist Party of Euskadi groups, a transactional agreement which shows that our position before the failed draft law of the Government of Mr Urkullu was a firm and constructive position; a transactional agreement that sets the framework for the implementation of the two laws: the Basque public sector as a whole, both common and foral and local; a transactional agreement before which the sarcasms, accusations of opportunism and malicious interpretations of Mr Erkoreka, who repeated here fifteen days ago, should be corrected. The PNV group has changed its position on the scope, and we hope that the Basque Government will do so as well. We really hope that the government should be put to work, that the law projects should be brought back as soon as possible, including the importations of all, or, as far as possible, including at least the introductions. And then, yes, we will discuss the contents of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Orbehabá, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u71	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. We are glad at first that we have obtained a great harmony in this enterprise, because we believe it is very positive to listen to the builders, and in this sense our party will act with responsibilities and respect, because it is the most important thing for us to accept these laws which are favorable to the public and to the administration of the people. However, I must confess that we have left ourselves with a delicious sensation or a taste of salt. In fact, we really think we should ask ourselves whether this initiative was necessary to discuss it in this Chamber. And don't get me wrong, for instance, it's not my intention to be capable of arguing with anyone, but it's often true that, as has happened in this case, it's very difficult to understand why we should discuss a subject like today. That is to say, in the United States less than three weeks ago, the Representatives of Erkoa, two groups of representatives, asked him twice what he intended to do about the law of the public Administration, and that the chief of the Ercorekians had clearly explained that it was his intention to send him to the Chamber of Laws divided between two Laws, one of transparency and the organization of good Government, and the other of the organization and operation of the popular administration. Moreover, he confirmed that when these new projects of laws were prepared by the previous bill of law-making, it was important for him to prepare and present corrections to the vast work of the legislatures, and to work made by various workmen and techniques. And in this sense, he had already remembered that these members of his department were already engaged in business in order to send these two new projects to the legislature as soon as possible, and to obtain the greatest possible consent. So I said, for all that, that, perhaps, the discussion of this motion is not too great a matter. For the President of the Central Department has already said, twice in this Chamber, that which the President of the Council demanded in its original initiative, what the groups demanded in the full line of justice, and what we afterwards require in the Middle Center. Nevertheless, we are very glad that we have obtained a great deal of agreement in this subject, that we may look forward to it, and that we may be able to discuss and assent to these two laws, as soon as possible, to modify the administrative administration of the Basque Autonomical Country, which are indispensable laws to strengthen the trust of the people in our institutions, the laws which will serve to promote the support of the members of the community. And so we have no intention of losing ourselves in vain discussions, we want to look forward to it, and agree to what we agreed to today. Although I must also say that at first we were not in favour of separating the law from the Basque public administration into two bills, on the one hand regulating transparency and good governance, and on a separate basis regulating the administrative organization. We were not in favour of reproducing in Euskadi the Spanish legislative scheme, which separates the two areas. In fact, we believe that, if we want to demand transparency from the Administration, it would logically be to regulate it jointly in the same rule that lays down the basis for its structure and functioning. We have not really just understood why it is better to have a regulation that separates the organisation and the functioning of transparency. We do not understand, but, as I said earlier, we understand that it is not a substantive debate, it is a debate of legislative technique, and we take our minority position in this regard and we are not going to be obsessed with sterile debates. On the other hand, around the outer sphere of law-making application, most of the groups demanded that they extend to historical and administrative areas. In this sense, it must be said, that he received several instances of this original project of laws, of which several articles were applied to local and local administrations. I remember the examples the Erkoe had put in, when he made the first representation of the law project. The 54s, 55.5s, 55. I'm not going to list them all, but I'd like to insist that the chairman of the department had given several examples, and that he had also said in his presentation, that if the Parliament were to decide so, it would always be possible to extend the scope of the law entirely to the forum and local administrations. So this option has always been open. However, we cannot forget that there is danger in it. In other words, it may happen that the means of preventing the jurisdiction, namely, of preventing the organization of the institutions of history, or of establishing an appeal against the Constitution, because it is not the jurisdiction of the Renaissance. But the dangers of this decision are to be foreseen by the legislator, that is to say, by this Chamber, and to be decided upon the scope of its responsibility. With regard to transparency, the right of access to public information and participation, we do not share that the bill was a copy of the state law, that it lacked ambition and that it did not develop self-government as much as possible, as has been said in previous interventions. It is true that part of the basic legislation of the State, but it also added more elements, as it set more ambitious standards regarding both certain contents and deadlines, and often adapted the general rules to the peculiarities of the Basque autonomous organization. Edozein kasutan, silburuak berretsi zuen legaren edukia ez zegoela itxita age ez zela mugiezina inondik inora. He also said in his presentation that the content of the law was neither closed nor unremovable. Then, he was willing to listen to contributions and include them. He was ready to listen to the proposals of the groups in his presentation, and now he has confirmed in three weeks' answers that the contributions and correction of the groups will be in account when the new legal text is prepared. And we believe, in this sense, that we need to get these laws out of hand. On the other hand, as may happen in the case of transparency, the fundamental laws of the state of our Autonomy in the Renaissance will remain strong, just the same law of State, which we all or most of them consider as too little. That's why I said that at first we didn't mean to get involved in hopeless discussions, we're glad we've made this middle-class. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u72	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing to a group that hasn't announced any correction, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u73	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good noon, everyone. As it is known and has already been recalled in this rostrum through several parliamentarians, the Basque Government withdrew, a minute before voting for its return, the Basque Public Administration Bill, a few weeks ago. This group, the People's Parliamentary Group, although there are more than well-founded reasons for submitting an amendment to the whole, as you will also remember, did not do so. The bill was clumsy, technically imprecise and structurally incoherent; it ran away from clarity, and introduced a regulatory confusion contrary to the requirement of article 9.3 of the Spanish Constitution on legal certainty. In other words, the technical quality of the regulations shined in that document because of their absence. In a ceremony of legislative confusion, different, perfectly demarcated subjects were mixed up and, therefore, capable of setting up, as someone has also recalled here, different provisions. All this could have led us to the request for the return of the project. This could have been at that time, at that time, our option, but by appreciating, as has been said, the imperative need (imperious need) to have a regulatory text, we try to give consistency to the text, clarify the messages and define the regulatory contents. And therefore, as you will also remember, we wanted to enter the debate on that draft by tabling 261 partial amendments. Because we believe that it is good, because we believe that there needs to be a law that regulates transparency, so that it becomes a value, and good governance becomes an ethical framework. In order for our administrations, our institutions, on the other hand, to regain credibility, or to try to help them to regain credibility, and to provide the service that citizens demand under the conditions of responsibility that our society deserves. It should be remembered – and perhaps this is to the shame of itself, I say of this Parliament – that the vast majority of the countries in our environment and a large number of autonomous communities in our environment have adopted – yes, with different scope, and certainly subject to criticism of the size and projection of both, but have adopted – transparency laws that have also served as a reference and model – we have to confess – for the 261 proposals or amendments that we have tabled. In fact, it is also worth remembering, and they will allow me, that it has been the People's Party that has led from the Government (Government of Spain) and from autonomous communities the impulse and approval of the regulatory regulation on transparency. We then considered and today consider that we are faced with a necessary and indefatigable law, with a law that is essential, with a law that also has to change the way our administrations function, modernise them and adapt them to the new demands, among others to the new citizen demands. That bill, when it was introduced in this House and withdrawn by the Government, was already late, but we understood that in addition, or despite being late, we should not abound in that delay. The whole of Spain has been incorporated late, very late, into the states that have a law of transparency. Our autonomous community even later, but we had a chance weeks ago, and we understood at that time that we should not waste it. By provoking the withdrawal of the law, which is obviously the sole responsibility of the Government, but by provoking the withdrawal of the bill, we were practically engaged in the absence of a law on transparency in this legislature. That is why, for the sake of consensus, which is so necessary in politics, we made the effort, and even, if I may, the political sacrifice of not doing what we were asked to do, which was to request the return of the text to the Government. But it wasn't possible. That is why today, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, we are discussing the drafting of a draft rather than drawing up or redrafting a law. At this point we should also share, because no one should be alien to this, that the process of drafting a bill until it is submitted to Parliament has a procedural iter that is inexorable, it is drawn up by the Law on Procedure for the elaboration of general provisions, which requires a preliminary draft and its submission to various reports and opinions, and a process of information and public hearing that in initiatives such as the one that arises, due to its general condition, causes wide public participation. In fact, the Government's withdrawn project contains allegations from more than 65 Basque institutions and institutions. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, today, unfortunately, we are discussing the resumption of a path that had already begun to move. Today we can say without fear of being mistaken that according to the deadlines I have listed for you, and which are the legally established ones, in this legislature our Autonomous Community will probably also be left without the law of transparency. As one classic said, one for extra cards, and one for less cards. We had an opportunity to debate already, to be already discussing all this, on what there is a general consensus in this House. Some with positions, some with others, and the Government defending theirs, but we could already be in the arena debating a bill or a law of these characteristics. We are critical of this delay; we believe that, no matter how much the Government is required, the deadlines will make it impossible for us to pass such a law. But, in any case, we will approve the compromise amendment that is submitted for consideration by this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u74	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing on the answers, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u75	Yes, thank you, President. I am not going to say too many things, but I do have to say that it is all as a little desperate, it is as tired as it is, the parliamentary procedure is very slow, the parliamentary groups are struggling to move very hard, the government is doing everything possible to postpone laws that are absolutely essential, and the truth is that at the end of 2015 we will see if we finally have a transparency bill in this Parliament, something that is not assured despite the compromise amendment that you have signed, whose content is very good and that we will all vote. But it is certainly tiring that we keep this tiring pace in relation to matters that are very relevant. We are told that, in the end, we all basically agree on what needs to be done and will be done with good will, but it is false. We have not all raised the same things, the same demands, nor have we defended the same postulates. It's fake. This same debate took place already in 2013, in 2013, and a very undemanding compromise amendment emerged from that debate. It would have been advisable for a transactional such as the one to be adopted today to have been adopted in that debate, and surely today we would have a law of transparency worthy of that name. But the fact that everything is delayed, and that is why I say that it is very desperate and very tired, and sometimes there are political and parliamentary groups that carry the pace of snails. He's very tired, he's very tired. In November 2011, we defended a law on transparency at the national level. We ask the Government of Spain, in November 2011, with only five deputies in the Congress of Deputies, that the Government draw up a law on transparency that considers the right to information to be a fundamental right, and that includes a number of requirements that are what I defended here today and defended in November 2013. And the Government of Spain rejected this UPyD initiative to draft a law on transparency. It rejected it, because governments usually do not want to have transparency laws, and they do everything possible to get them adopted as soon as possible, or they do everything possible to make their content as smooth as possible. And the truth is that Spain has not joined those countries that Mr Semper quoted with a law of transparency. It has not been incorporated, it has not yet been incorporated. We have a law of national transparency, but it is far from the standards that prevail in other countries of our environment. Far away. The right to information has to be a fundamental right, citizens have to know the fate of every euro of public money, and there is a lot of work to be done. And the truth is that we are, yes, in 2015 discussing a matter that needs to be discussed, Mr Orbegozo, spokesman for the Basque Nationalist group. How are we not going to discuss this issue! How are we going to rely on what Mr Erkoreka said in a full checkpoint? Why are we, if not, opposition groups? Only to say amen and blindly trust what the members of the government say? No, no, He said a few things, but we wanted to make sure that they were carried out, and we have also signed, or you have signed, a transactional that comes well to urge the Government and that places duties on it. Obviously, this is an absolutely fundamental debate, but more fundamental is that this Government should bring a law of transparency worthy of that name as soon as possible. It is clear that this Government did not want that transparency law to be passed. He didn't want to. That is why he postponed everything he could, and that is why he permanently refused to engage with the rest of the parliamentary groups. He refused. I knew I was in a minority; I could have spoken to a servant, who seemed to be the decisive vote on that issue, or to any of you, who are as important as I in this House, could have done so, a call to see if that whole amendment could actually be withdrawn. The Basque Government and Mr Erkoreka and Mr Lehendakari did not move a finger to do everything possible to ensure that these amendments in their entirety were rejected and that the partial amendments tabled by the other groups were incorporated, which turns out that the next day Mr Erkoreka was willing to include. It is therefore clear that the Government did not want to have a transparency law, because governments usually do not want to have transparency laws, because they are very uncomfortable with them, but we will, of course, do everything we can. And the Basque Government demonstrated an immense pre-potency and, finally, a grave irresponsibility as well, absolute irresponsibility. Finally, we will continue to uphold the same principles as so far: that citizens with one click have access to all the information available to know the fate of each euro of public money, and that citizens' information is absolutely guaranteed. That's what we want. That's what we want, but what we already wanted two years ago, and we're still in these, talking about the same thing again. Anyway, I'll stick with the deal, but there was also agreement in November 2013, and two years later or a year and a half later we're still as we are. The compromise amendment is good, its content is good. We want it to be fulfilled as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u76	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Gallastegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u77	Yes, thank you, President. I did not intend to participate, to take part in this second round, but there are some things that surprise me, Mr Orbegozo. I thank you very much for the tone, especially because the way things are put forward, for it has an acceptable tone, which is likely to understand that there is a disposition to the agreement, but then I am greatly surprised by what you say. And what you are coming to say here is that how we are going to discuss this now; that is, that this motion is absolutely unnecessary, because there was already a commitment on the part of the Government in order to introduce a new law. And yet, on a regular basis, you begin to talk about the content of the law that has been failed and withdrawn by the Government. There's something there that doesn't match. In any case, you have the right to say what you think is appropriate and to defend your positions in the best possible way. You said that you already stated that these new projects would have content that was not going to be closed or unremovable. Man, welcome! Welcome! It's just that that's exactly why we couldn't discuss this! First because he withdrew an initiative that was presented in the image and likeness of his own needs and approaches, without consulting with anyone, neither before nor after. And it has now been seen in the obligation to submit two bills, which is what we are urging, which collect a number of positions; among others, that they be, for example, two laws. And you go and tell me in this rostrum that you don't agree that it's two laws. There's something I don't like. That is to say, you are taking a position, let us say, more in agreement, of trying to reach consensus, signing and approving a compromise in which we urge the Government that you support to make two laws and bring them to this Parliament with the greatest possible consensus and with the contributions of all the groups, but you already tell me in advance that you do not agree with two laws. Anyway. There is one thing I do thank you for, and it is that the parliamentary group or the party that supports the Government must never sustain the pride of the Government. And in this case I very much thank you for your willingness to the agreement, but what is basically about is that, when you agree something, it's about defending what you agree. And when it comes to defending what is agreed, it is about defending the position of this Parliament to which it is a party, with an agreement to which it has been a party in relation to the Government. That will be the government supported by you, but it is the government, and you are the representation of the citizenry in this Parliament. Mr Semper, if in the end what you mean is that if we had discussed the partial amendments we would now be much closer to the law, for I do not know, but you in any case with those partial amendments could have quietly put forward a proposal for a law in this regard to debate. In any case, he's just missed..., I've been about to think that you were going to jump me through The Secrets, the "We had a chance and let her get away" thing. I mean, we have the option at the moment of..., we are urging the government to present to us in no way a draft, well, two bills, which will bring to this House the opportunity to discuss the subject matter, which is nothing other than the regulation of the public sector, including all the administrations of the Community, all, and a law of transparency that allows that, that it is a transparent government, that can be perfectly controlled the action of the public administrations and follow the trace of every euro we spend, no more or less. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u79	Yes, thank you. Yo, symbolamente, tampo pensaba en el turno de shovelra, pero, Lord Orbegi, I'm really grateful to sign this deal. I confess that EAJ's team has advanced a step, admitting that the application scope of these laws is different and not what the government had said when the law was introduced to the law was so narrow. And then, to repeat you mechanically, as Mrs. Gallastegui has said, in another tone, but I'm really worried about what Mr. Erkoa said. Indeed, let him come here and repeat to me that at last the Spanish model also enters the law of transparency, as a way..., as Mr Erkoreka did fifteen days ago, with that sarcasm that characterizes him, with a desire to try to offend this group... I do not know whether you do not read the amendments as a whole, or do not want to understand them. And I've explained it to you too. We from Euskal Herria Bildu have proposed that there should be two laws for a matter of clarity, for a question that obviously, if a law is called "the public administration", I, a citizen on foot, probably do not think that my rights and the obligations of the public sector with regard to transparency will be there. It was a question of practicality, of accessibility to citizenship. But you, as always, try to take him away, I don't know what you're looking forward to. I just didn't get it. And that there were articles that the counselor said could be applied to the outside and local sphere. Certainly, she came to the committee because this member of the EH Bildu group requested the Councillor's appearance, because the Councillor had in principle not shown any official request to come to the committee to explain this law. It is that, I insist, it is not that some articles joyfully, gracefully, are decided that they will be of outside and local scope too! No way! That it is that we have to make a whole Basque public sector e-fi-cien-te. And we have it very clearly: general, foral and local. That we don't live in dormant rooms! That this country has three levels, and you have to assume that those levels have to have a structure! That I understand that you are still anchored in what limitations you self-imposed, because it is that, really, how can you continue with that, when...? And with regard to the time of the presentation of the law, this law should have been in the first half of 2014, Mr. Semper. The first part, unfulfilled; let's blame the government a little bit. And this law stated: "The main objective, to regulate in an orderly and cohesive manner the Basque public sector, understood this as the set of public administrations, autonomous bodies, public bodies of private law, etc., of which the various levels of autonomous, out-of-town and local government of the Basque Autonomous Community are used". What was going on? What happened at the time of writing the law? The legal boundaries you put on the table once more, limited jurisdictions. What is the matter, that when the Government made its legislative programme it did not know what its scope was, what should be the scope of this law? Because it was the Basque Government itself that in the legislative programme said that the law of Basque public administration was for the autonomic, foral and local sphere! Let's stop moving ghosts, that unconstitutional, that we don't do this, that we don't do that... , as Mr Erkoreka did when he tortuously withdrew the law at one hour from the debate. We had reached an agreement, I think it is an agreement that puts us in a good position to achieve a good law for this country. Let's go that way, and let's stop moving again. I don't know what ghosts and I don't know what twisted intentions that don't lead us anywhere.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Orbehabá, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u81	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Nik you had to doubt the bone modu egokian azaldu gure ikuspunta edo gure jarra. Zergatik gu saiatu gara..., what we have tried to do is not to expose the content of the previous law, but we have tried to explain that, although we do not share many of the approaches that have been made in this House by the various groups, we respect them. On the basis of that, being realistic in our position in this House, we believe that, in order to ensure that these much-needed laws are adopted, we believe that it is appropriate, it is better, it is necessary, it is good that we reach agreement on these points. And we assume them. And we take them precisely because we take our position, because we know what the reality of this House is, but at no time have we tried to deceive anyone, or use tortuous methods, or anything. Ez zen hori gure helburua inundik inora. Eta esaten nuena zen, this motion is about the steps to take to introduce a new law of public administration. What I wanted to say to Mr Maneiro before is that, speaking of tiredness, snail rhythm, talking about the eternal roundabout, this motion is about something that has already been confirmed by the Government that is doing so, which is already taking those steps. That's what I meant. Nothing more. This is an initiative to demand from the Basque Government something that it has already committed itself to doing, on a double basis, in this very rostrum. And, above all, what is most surprising is that, if it were a motion to urge the Government to do something it has refused to do, it might make some sense, but no one has refused to do so. And that's why I said we don't want to lose ourselves in hopeless disputes. I think I may not have explained what our point of view is. It is plain that we intend to look forward to it, that we wish to take steps to accept these two laws, and in this sense we make a complete agreement with the points and points which are received in this medium. That's all we wanted to say. And about the camp, Mrs. Pinedo, what I wanted to explain was that in this project of the previous laws there was also an opportunity of extending the law to all the institutions in so many ways. And besides this, this legislature has also occasion to extend itself to the sphere which it decides. Another question is, that the dangers I have already observed exist in relation to the rights. After all, it is the medium we have obtained our protection to confirm. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u82	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Finally, representing the Basque Popula Group, Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u83	Yes, thank you, President. Very briefly from the seat to make clear some issue, mainly Mrs Gallastegui, and the rest of the speakers perhaps as well. We had an opportunity that we let escape, and what happens is that that opportunity has escaped and other opportunities will come, Mrs Gallastegui, of course we will, and we will debate. But look at how different it would have been that, before a bill criticized by the opposition, by the parliamentary groups, a bill presented by the Government (that comes within the logic of parliamentaryism: the Government sends a bill to this House, the political groups manifest themselves, position themselves), now we could be in the midst of a presentation discussing above all that we are putting on the table today. We would already be debating, we would already be preparing, and Mr. Maneiro would probably be less tired and would have less laziness (though only because we would have done Mr. Maneiro a favor to ease his laziness and tiredness), and we would probably be already debating in the midst of the presentation, and we could have enabled July and August, and look at it, when we now ask the government – I hope the rumor has not been about enabling July and August, Madam President –..., when we are asking the government to refer a bill to this House, we would probably be willing to be passing that law. Well, whatever it is, we've missed a chance. There'll be more coming. But please, please... We are neither as good nor as bad as we think we are, but we lack many things in this Parliament and in this Autonomous Community, which are legal and legislative tools that put us at the forefront. There are others who have already done so. We're late. But let's get there, because if we don't, we won't be able to look in the mirror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u84	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of Mr. Maniro Labayen's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; in favour 1, 64; white, 0; abstainments, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u85	So he didn't accept it. We'll next vote for the middle-term correction signed by the Basque Socialists and EH and the EUbertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 73; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u86	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. At this moment, I interrupt the whole meeting until 3:00. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-six. The meeting resumed at three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u87	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Forth point on the theme list: "Gather [as] a congregation of the congregation of the congregation, And gather [it] in the land of the transgeni. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The Representative of the EH Group, Lord Lazarus, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u88	Good afternoon, everyone. Transgeni's theme has not been backwards and forwards for the past few years. In the last few months, however, he began to move, but this movement has been said in a bad direction. Europe has hitherto made up its decisions and the decisions about transgenic transgenecies in Europe, and they are therefore admitted to have two transgenic cornes of the erection and import or 58 transgeni for the nourishment of individuals and animals. Now Europe has decided to leave the decision to the States, and knowing that in Madrid she is a fanatic in the government of transgenic PP, they'll probably do the best to get the transgenics in. In front of this new situation, we want to continue to be a site without Arba, Bitzia, and Gipuzian transgenic, which is why we've introduced this initiative. Looking at the production of the Transgenies, first of all, let us say that data always swells, to give us the impression that more is produced than it is produced. Tell me in the world that about 1,300 million acres are planted in general and that 150 million of them are transgentical, approximately 20 percent. And they're mostly soyah, corn, glue, and cotton. The United States of America, Brazil, Argentina, Canada, India and China, and Monsanto runs the Transgenic trade at 80 percent. In Europe it is said that about 100,000 acres are produced, and about 80,000 acres in the Spanish State, which is that of Europe 80% of the Spanish State. The transgenic corn had been allowed in the French state for two years, but afterwards it was prohibited. So, if we look at the Basque People, it's a place called Araba, Biscaia, and Gipu in 2007 without transgenic sites, and it's not a day to sow, not even in the North Basque Country, but in Navarre, about 5,000 acres of transgenic land. The Transgenic is, after all, changing the genome of a living being, because the genetic information of another living being is given to him, or in a direct way the same genome is altered. And the purpose is always to change a specific character of a plant for a benefit. For instance, the genetic information of a fish can be grafted into the tomato for the sake of a better contrast to the cold. It's possible to change the genome to develop to a certain hermaphrodite. Or the genetic information of a bacteria can be grafted on a corn to develop resistance in front of certain insects. On the other hand, those who promote the transgentists say that life or co-existence is possible between the transgenic and not transgenic, and practice has shown us that this is not so, because in the course of polylination the winds and insects carry pollen from one side to the other, and in this case there is a cross kind of pollen. In this sense, the transgenic is infected by what is non-transgenic. And as an example, if we have two departments of corn, the one transgenic, and the other near it, ecologically ecological, the transgenia infects the ecological, and the ecological does not cease to be ecological. So it can't be marketed as an ecological, so this leads to the autoological farmer's loss. This has happened in Navarre and beyond Navarre, as far as Aragon. In fact, this infection is the reason for less ecological corn, and the ecological farmers are quite desperate. Around the tags of transgenic nutriments, the provisions which naturally carry transgenic must be labeled as being transgenic, though there be a hundred per cent of them exempt. But if, on the other hand, the transgenic pentous for the nourishment of animals is used, then it does not appear to be transgenic in the flesh or milk derived from this animal. And if we look at the sector here, except that a few people who are using direct sales without chemicals and conventionally transgentizing, we can say that all the lusity that is used is transgenic. So almost all the luxuries in the cattle sector are transgenic, even though we don't see them in the Ethraeans. There are many promises around the Transgeneian. A promise that the hunger in the world is over with the transgenus and it's not like that. The question is not little to be produced at the present day, because the distribution of nutriments is absolutely unjust, and that what is produced is not available to all the people of the world. Further, there are many who pass hunger, and this is paradoxical. Another promise is that the transgenus will stop climate change, and this is not the case either. It means loss of local seeds, because the same seeds spread throughout the world at the expense of bioanisis. And the bad herbs which come out of the transgenics develop from year to year the resistance to the living, and in this sense they must be driven more and more. Hence it follows that the soil is more and more polluted. Another promise, more profitable to farmers, is not the same. Farmers are obliged to buy seeds every year, because the transgenic seeds are sterile. And as a year of birth is to be driven out more lame, it must be purchased more alive, the cost of production is gradually rising higher and higher. Another promise is, that transgenics offer more healthy food for the people, and this is not the case. A number of medical problems are connected with the Transgeni; cancer, allergic, fertility problems, etc. And it's not a coincidence to include in the list of products the world's organization of health that leads to glifosa. Nor is it a coincidence that this week the French government has announced the limitation of the use of those hermaphrodites which have the glossary. So what we have is: If there should not be an end to the hunger in the world, unless a change of climate should be more profitable to the peasants than to the inhabitants, who is behind the transgentes? There are still people who want to make this globalized and neoliberal world more neoliberal. There are people who want to be private control over the nutrient system. There are those who place their economic interests above the public necessity: There are corporations like Monsanto who are willing to sell disease and medicine. Nor is it a coincidence that within TTIP there is a theme of transgenic relations, because the corporations of the United States are extremely interested in entering Europe. And even if we're too far away from EAJ on TTIP's subject, we've understood the substance of the transgenics, and we've reached a middle course. We've come to a middle-way because we don't want any transgenic transgenics. Because we want to make our decision about the Transgeni, as well as a lot of other decisions, because we want them here to open new lines to investigate the alternatives of the transgentists, because we want the transgenus without transgenus, and we want them to die without transgene, because we want to label the transgeneous euphesco. That's why we made the middle cut. And to mention the correctes introduced, tell them that what has been introduced from the popular group is to push on the use of transgenic forces, and that there is no approach possible. The Socialist Group has been about to enter the middle of the line, but in the end it is not possible for the Socialist team to receive the right of deciding the transgenus here, and therefore has not entered the middle course. This is it for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u89	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. lópez de ocarariz, representing the Basque Potula team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u90	Good afternoon, Mr. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. The debate that EH Bildu raises in this House today is old. It is ancient, because this House in the last century has already debated this matter. Left United at that time raised the debate about the cultivation or not of transgenics and its commercialization in 1999, when they took three years with this type of cultivation in Spain and thirteen elsewhere, especially in American countries. And this debate arose from moderation and the precautionary principle, because in Spain, in fact, the experience was very short, and some were suspicious of the kindnesses that told us from outside. The context of the moment was complicated. It coincided in those years with crazy cows, chickens with dioxin and other food alerts that alarmed society. I have to say that some of us had no doubt at the time. The People's Party thus manifested in this House then, and we now manifest it. And now with more reason, because today's scientific evidence has shown us that we were in the right position. The justification that EH Bildu presents in her initiative is a set of barbarities that there is no place to take them, defeated in this House on 2 December by Mrs Renobales, a university professor and an expert in biotechnology. All beaten up, but you're impervious to science, research... You're not in the 21st century; you're in the 19th. He says, for example, and has repeated it here today, that the cultivation of modified organisms creates dependence on farmers, forcing them to buy seeds every year. Listen, Mr. Lazarobaster, I now find out that in my family, that we have done traditional farming all our life, we bought seeds every year. What's the matter with that? You buy a seed that is certified, that is of quality, that is protected, and you sow it, because you aspire to have good production, and the best possible production. This is usually done, and has been done in traditional agriculture. I don't know if he finds out. Therefore, they are statements that are barbaric. If precisely for something the Bt is so interesting – which is the only transgenic product produced in Spain – it is because the seed is already prepared and is immune to the drill; therefore, it is not necessary to cast herbicide, which gives us a productivity in itself, because the losses are zero. Therefore, what you say here is faaaalso, simply false, and defeated by Mrs Renobales in this House. But you don't answer, you're still in your speech wrong that wrong. Abusing flies. It also says "serious dangers of transgenics." It was also defeated in this House, and I have to tell you that, after more than twenty years of this production, there is no event of pollution, neither in plants, nor in animals, nor in humans. It is not the same, for example, with organic products, since there are events of some concentrations of mycotoxins, which are consistent with them, and this is a problem for organic farming. And I want it to be investigated and to be able to move forward in those terms, but there are events in organic farming, not in agriculture or in the production of genetically modified organisms. Therefore, let us stick to reality and scientific evidence, and to what day by day is shown. Ladies and gentlemen, the basis of civilization is agriculture, which originated more than 10,000 years ago, right? And when man starts domesticating plants, he starts to realize that if it produces it the same way he can get some profitability, what he does first is to make a genetic improvement, with the means of the moment and doing a lot of tests, I guess. But the agriculture we have today is all genetically modified, okay, without controls, without any control, based on experiences and to see what the result was. Without any control, nor does organic farming have, by the way, no control. Therefore, genetic or transgenic modifications are only a perfected technology of genetic improvements that have been made for 10,000 years, what is called biotechnology. And biotechnology occurs in many sectors, mainly in the industrial sector, in the pharmaceutical sector, and also in agriculture, and it is here and it is to be given. I'm so sorry. You can repeat your debate whenever you want, because you do not debate, you impose. It's not debateable, it's not permeable to science. No, he doesn't care what the scientific evidence says. He doesn't care. There have always been bulldozers, always, and you are one of them, before the new technologies. Look, it was said, "Electrical light, okay!, is going to cause us all to blind." Well, we're all in electric light here. "The railways won't be able to go more than 40 kilometers an hour, because the human being is going to disintegrate." Look, 40 kilometers an hour, we were gonna disintegrate all of them. There's always been aggravation, and it probably has to be for there to be evidence that science and technology are good. I encourage you to stay in line, because it is also important that once the part of society that does not believe in science and technology and progress is manifested. Therefore, I encourage you. I don't mind coming here as many times as I need to tell you that I think you're wrong, but nothing else. Neiker, who is very close, in his annual reports talks about agrarian innovation, and says that the challenge in the Basque Country is the search for productive alternatives. It insists year after year on the need for the application of biotechnology in order to obtain products of higher added value. Hey, Neiker. You aspire and also make many initiatives for Neiker to investigate, for Neiker to speak, to move forward... Well, that's what Neiker says in his reports. I don't know if you've read it. You'll be worried, won't you? I don't know. Ladies and gentlemen, there are control and monitoring plans for this type of crop, and what results from these reports is that, for example, the cultivation of Bt maize, which is the only one produced in Spain, the only transgenic product produced in Spain, is safer than conventional maize. And look, I don't make it up, do I? The Technical School of Agricultural Engineers says so and affirms it in its reports. So, I don't make this up myself. And I, what do you want, believe these specialists more than you do. Because I don't know. You have not demonstrated an event of contamination, an event in health, in plants, in animals, that has been produced by transgenic crops. Don't talk about it. He says there are negative health effects that are hidden. Hey, if you know them, make them manifest. Put them on! Where are they hiding? Who's hiding them? Look, after more than twenty years of transgenic crops, as I told you, there has been no food alarm event, there is no pollution event with other productions, nor is there any event or problem for biodiversity or the environment. Farmers, producers, do not need you to come and protect them. They need administrations to provide the conditions necessary to carry out their activities under the best possible conditions, to be able to be more competitive, to have freedom of choice when choosing the type of production, the freedom of choice given them by the European coexistence directive. That the amendment tabled by the People's Party is an exact copy of what the European coexistence directive says: freedom for farmers to choose between organic or conventional production or transgenic cultivation, and freedom for consumers to choose which product they buy. Listen, I don't want you to decide for anyone, that we are already older, that we already know how to decide for ourselves, that what producers need is to be guaranteed the freedom to choose. Therefore, I have to say that we are going to vote gladly, to the compromise amendment, if not. But I am pleased to say that I have no doubt, because nothing they propose contributes to the agricultural sector.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. The representative of the Basque Socialist Group, Mrs. Fresno, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u92	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Lehendakari. Good afternoon, counselor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Good. The Basque Autonomous Community is an area free from transgenic crops intended for the feeding of people and animals. We want it to stay that way. The Basque Socialists Group is committed to agriculture, livestock and GM-free food. We think it's vital. We are, of course, concerned about food quality, and we see the need to protect our farmers and farmers from the potential pollution they may suffer from cross-contamination, the use of pesticides and chemical fertilizers, monoculture or depopulation in rural areas, which are some of the problems that are critical to our environment and our food. Years ago in this Parliament the Socialist Group tabled a non-legislative proposal for its debate in this plenary, where the Basque Government was urged to legally regulate the declaration of our Autonomous Community free of genetically modified organisms. The Socialist Party took the initiative, which was approved. Our concern is that there are no agreements with the rest of the neighbouring autonomous communities to establish transgenic-free corridors in order to ensure the non-contamination of our crops. There may be a risk of mixtures, or cross-pollinations very difficult or impossible to control, even if they want to set both technical and management guidelines in agricultural activity for prevention and thus be able to avoid these risks. And that's why we're surprised by the eagerness of those who sign the transactional that is likely to come forward. You know the socialist position with regard to the right to decide, the one that the lehendakari, Mr Urkullu, says he does not have in his priorities, and we find him in the transgenics. With all due respect, it's mixing barbecues with merinas. We do not know whether they are seeking the right to decide or to protect our products and our understanding of a productive practice. I insist, beyond our political position on the right to decide, what they propose to us is a practical demonstration of how that statement does not serve to solve problems. What good is it to us to have this full capacity to decide about our crops, if transgenics are not limited in our environment? Can you explain to me how the pollen of a transgenic crop in Castro, Espinosa de los Monteros, Viana or Hondarribi is prevented from reaching the crops of Muskiz, Encartaciones, Rioja Alavesa or Gipuzkoa? No hit we have to claim more ability to regulate on our own, but that's not going to be a guarantee of anything. That is why we believe it is necessary for the Basque Government to work together with the other competent institutions, also with the environmental communities and with the central administration in this field, in the protection of crop biodiversity, the genetic heritage of local seeds and varieties and the commercial heritage of quality policy, which, together with the traditional production of agri-food products, constitutes an important pillar on which it supports the competitiveness of the Basque sector. Under local conditions, no external means with polluting effects are used, and therefore the use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides or genetically modified or transgenic organisms is excluded, and in general of all types of synthetic, non-natural products. Organic agriculture combines tradition, innovation and science to promote the environment we share. It is not a question of opposition by opposition. We know that genetic modification can have certain advantages, but today what we have is a risk that promote large multinationals, trying without a doubt to convince the goodness of transgenics. Six companies have full control of genetic varieties: Monsanto, Bayer, DuPont, Pioneer, among others, multinationals that dominate the world seeds and at the same time have (they themselves) powerful pharmaceutical and food industries. Scientists from 82 countries around the world denounce the dangers of transgenics, and express concern about the dangers posed by transgenics to biodiversity, food health, human and animal health. They point out their opposition to these crops, as the corporate monopoly is intensified, exacerbate inequalities and prevent change towards sustainable agriculture that can guarantee food security and health worldwide. We must work to demand more support for the research and development of a non-corporate, sustainable agriculture that can benefit farmers' families around the world. Moreover, Europe is beginning to give in to the pressure that demands less restrictive regulation for genetically modified products. Brussels has approved the entry of 17 new artificially created species in the United States but whose marketing is not currently being allowed in Europe. Of the seventeen transgenics approved for food use, fifteen are herbicide-resistant and eight are glyphosate-resistant. Herbicide-resistant transgenic crops involve a greater presence of toxic chemical residues in food. This warning has been sent by the World Health Organization on the carcinogenic potential of glyphosate. They have the maximum residue limits of this herbicide allowed in food. The main health effects: emergence of new allergies due to the introduction of new proteins in food; emergence of resistance to antibiotics or pathogenic bacteria both human and animal; emergence of new toxic substances in food; increase in food contamination due to increased use of chemicals in agriculture; decrease in fertile capacity; causes of cancer, congenital malformations. This is the context, and in it it is no longer necessary to ratify that our territory is free of transgenics, as has already been done at socialist level in the past legislature. We must have every precaution. And for that they are of more maximalisms that lead us nowhere. We want in the transgenics to defend the position we have. We want the maximum development of our skills to protect our products. May our institutions strengthen them in all ways, in economic and commercial support. And we want this protection to come with scientific certainty. As much as transgenics are not planted or supported here, we cannot prevent our products from becoming contaminated. That "you can't put doors to the field," is a more than pertinent saying. That is why it would be better for us, instead of desideratums, to make efforts to ensure that our environment, outside of Euskadi, is also free from transgenics, rather than imposing fictitious borders. For all that has been said so far, my group in the Socialist Group in the Basque Country advocates a social and sustainable agriculture that guarantees safe, healthy, nutritious and quality food, based on responsible methods of production, promotes environmental protection and animal welfare and promotes the conservation of natural resources. Therefore, after what has already been said, we will vote on our amendment, because it sets out how to continue working. We fight and say that the controls that must be carried out are the ones that must be developed. It's the important thing. We defend agriculture, livestock, the environment, and protect the population in very comprehensive terms. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Misto-UPyD has withdrawn his amendment. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u94	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all the afternoons. Let's start with didactics. Genetically modified organisms, or more accurately named genetically modified organisms, are living beings that are obtained from genetic engineering, which makes it possible to create plants, animals or microorganisms by manipulating their genes, as has already been said here. These techniques of genetic engineering have been used to try to introduce new characteristics to crops, coming for more than a decade to be planted in many countries, it has been said, above all modified varieties in soybeans, rapeseed, maize and cotton basically. Despite the huge propaganda about the multitude of features introduced into the varieties (such as the mythical one of producing roots of carrots and bean leaves), which are a lie, commercial varieties have actually been made so far that incorporate only two characters: resistance to insects and pests, and tolerance to herbicides. Indeed, 81% of the world's GM crops are herbicide-resistant plants; it is basically the work that is done. It is obvious that it is not the same classical genetic improvement, but let us not forget that this scientific model so successful and favored, classical genetic improvement, manipulates the natural evolution of living beings as well, and the forces towards characteristics that, since its anthropocentrism, decide the human being himself. Transgenicity directly manipulates genes, and therefore, contrary to classical genetic improvement, its results are rapid and difficult to predict, while classical improvement is slow-evolving and its effects on natural balance are slow and therefore relatively easier to tackle if in their case they are harmful, which, in many cases, are not doubting. In the background, we're in a matter of speed. All this could be useful exclusively to illustrate to your lordships – which is already – but obviously the intention, without renouncing the illustration, goes a little further. Without being radically opposed to transgenicity, indeed, in our virtue of wisdom – which we have – we understand that we must be cautious about the practical application of such technologies. We believe and will defend progress and research, the investigation into advances in these technologies. In fact, more than one Nobel Prize, and I think I remember that the last Princes of Asturias are scientists who are dedicated to transgenics. We will support the conduct of investigative work on new applications or on new varieties, and above all on the possible effects that may occur not so much on health – subject in which, we believe, we work quite safely – as well as on the breaking of difficult ecological balances after the sudden eruption of varieties that can modify environmental behaviors of difficult aprioristic interpretation. From there, and having made a brief global explanation of the artifice of transgenics, it is up to us to look inside and think about ourselves, our fields, our farmers, and our products. From the beginning of the auto-generacy, it was still more obvious since the Euskal Land was admitted to the Strat, that the agriculture policy of government has been to promote the quality of nutrients. He's bet on both original and original, including quality, ecological products, and other branders protected by Administration. Thus, at first, it does not seem reasonable to leave the transgenecies, for the transgentians equalize the products, and in the global degree homogeneize them, and prevent their separation. Euskadin agriculture can't be competitive with quantities, that's well known. That's why, even though agriculture is a small relative size in the Escal economy, we understand it's from the strategic sector. So we have to bet to keep this sector above everything. We have to do it for the quality of our products, the Euskdi ekadi through the Basque Country. In fact, the Basque Government, by the hand of the PNV, of course, was one of the founders of the Network of European regions free of transgenics, I think I recall, in 2005, coming to preside over it in the years 2008 and 2009. It is true that different European regions were moving in that network, whose motivation to want to be free of transgenics was varied, but we were united in a claim, which was that we had sufficient competence to declare ourselves free of transgenics without depending on the decisions of the European Commission. The Basque Government even went further, and adopted in 2009 a decree on coexistence which, de facto, prohibited transgenics in Euskadi, although it was true that the EU had ruled that it had to be repealed for lack of form since it had not been consulted. The socialist government repealed it, and that's where the story ended. Recently, the European Union has sent a new directive to be informed, in which it authorises Member States to prohibit on a reasoned basis the planting and planting of GMOs authorised by the Union itself. If the EU allows the states to make such a decision, which is based on the different ways of understanding trangenia and agriculture, why can't the state do the same, given that the autonomous communities have different ways of assessing transgenics and very different ways of carrying out agricultural policies, even though the Ministry of Agriculture is committed to homogenising us? Since I am here, and although I reserve myself for the reply some matters because I will be spending my time, I cannot let go of what Mrs Fresno has said about the right to decide. Mrs Fresno, I think you've read wrong, I think you've read fatal: what you're saying is "to ask the Spanish Government to have jurisdiction and the right to decide on authorization and prohibition from the Basque Government." The same thing that has been asked of you today in a law that the right to decide on how we want to manage housing in Euskadi is ours. The same as yesterday was asked that the right to decide on how to manage fracking be ours. Don't get nervous when you hear the words "right to decide"! But, well, there you are. The Basque parliament has indicated that its irication will be free of Eukdi transgeni. So that the most important thing in the middle is to ask the Spanish Government to transfer our jurisdiction to us, and to respect our right to them. We know that the regenerate wave of the modern Spanish government will overcome this request. But we know, too, that when the demand has been repeated, rationally and politically applied, whether sooner or later, the government will have to listen and admit it, even if we know it will not be a PP government. The rest of the media accounts are about the promotement of study. On the one hand, to search for genetic varieties, to replace transgenticals with efficiency, or to compare classical genetics and transgenia. On the other hand, alternatives are to encourage or to deep down, alternatives to those who have the content of transgenic products like soy. To conclude, because for today the subject brought here is no longer covered, although it will certainly have it in the future, we understand from the Nationalist Group that, without rejecting genetically modified foods in a general way, understanding that in other places they can be useful, or that the freedom of everyone should be exercised in their consumption or not, in Euskadi, given the type of agriculture we have invested in, the planting and planting of genetically modified varieties would break, at the level of knowledge we have today, the work of many years. Basically, and in reality, it is not a question of banning or allowing. It is about assuming for us and for us a responsibility: the responsibility to know how to manage a new technique and the products that derive from it. And, as Bengali spiritual master Sri Chinmoy said, "acceptance of responsibility is not acceptance of a burden, it is multiplication of opportunity." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u95	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing by the turn of the answers, the Representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Lazarus, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u96	You are the ardent defender of the Transgeni, Mme. lópez de Ocariz, as I am the ardent defender of the transgenic. And I think there is also a difference in respect for one another. And listening to you, it's like I'm the only fool in this world who's opposed to transgenics under the sun. And I'm trying to tell you that I'm not the only one, or at least Holland or Merll is as dumb as I am. And your party, Popular Party, has been the leader of transgeni in Europe since Aznar. You have brought 80% of the European Spanish States. And as you're so fond of transgenics, I have a curiosity, Mrs. lópez de Ocarariz, and I wonder if Monsant or Bayer could make up a new grape supply tomorrow that comes out of a grain of grapes of wine, would you be willing to put that grapes into the root of the Errioxian wine? That's the question I leave you if you want to answer. And investigations, in the world class, have been made many inquiries, which must always have been made in the shade of great corporations, because their fingers reach far. And in 2013, 300 independent scientists from the world have said that there is no evidence of the security of nutrient food. And because they often use the data given by biotechnology, because the power to produce corporations is far away, and independent scientists are cut off from funding, they don't give data, their jobs get shaken, and so on. And in this sense, even in the United States, though it was the first to produce transgenecies in the world, there arrived in 2014 an open letter to the European with the protection of 57 million Americans, in which the foreign institutions, scientists, different groups, intellectuals, nutrients, and so forth, were to say that the transgentantiations of the irreverents in Europe had been transgentical to warn us of the serious danger of the transgenic transgeni of the Transgenicies of the United States. and they say that our business is not to fulfil it in a very serious manner, that is to say, not to possess it. And in this fight, they've also offered to protect us, and we're aware of it. It's a pity we all don't know that we're here. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u97	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u98	Mr. Larazobaster, I, in the spirit that you are illustrative, tell you that, look, Mrs. Renobales has a very interesting book: "More sustainable foods. Transgenic seeds in organic farming". I would ask you, if all the arguments that you tell us, that you have told us here... Therefore, she is presenting us with a report rebutting what Mrs Renobales says in this report. So, look, yourself. No, but Mrs.Renobales says something very important: "The latest scientific data on genome analysis of transgenic and ecological crops convincingly demonstrate that both natural and artificial are one another. Therefore, we understand that scientific evidence does not justify the current rejection of genetically modified crops by organic farming." Mr. Lazarobaster, it is that every passing day is more demonstrated and more evident. But COAG, a union that is very close to you, says: "The competitiveness of the agri-food sector of the future is based on innovation and biotechnology. The opposite means the defenestration and death of the agri-food sector." They said that transgenics are not cultivated in the Basque Country because the Basque Government made a declaration of an autonomous community free of transgenics. Look, they don't grow transgenics here because it's not necessary to grow transgenics, because it's not interesting that production here of Bt corn. Therefore, not for any other reason: because farmers do not choose it as an interesting production for their activity. And that statement is a role, well, there it is, of internal consumption, of image, and a very important thing: to have a chair in the committee of European regions free of genetically modified organisms. For that, to sell the image of the Basque Country, not for anything else. They care about a pepper that is grown or not, they don't care at all. If tomorrow there is an interest in being cultivated, because they will be cultivated, nothing happens. That's image and nothing else. As I was telling you, organic farming and the cultivation of transgenics are not antagonistic; they complement each other. I therefore believe that, if you want to do some favour to agriculture, livestock and the primary sector in the Autonomous Community, what you should do is support the initiative that we are presenting, which, as I say to you, is what the European coexistence directive says: freedom for farmers to choose the type of production, and freedom for consumers. Li-ber-tad. Does that word ring a bell? Why do you, to value production, the model you think is the best, have to ban others? Hey, no! If so good is its model and its form, by itself, it will be the best and will be the one that the producers choose most. But I don't think that to enhance your model you have to ban others. You too much like the word ban, and you too much like to tell the rest that your model is the only one possible. No, there are other models, and they are perfectly compatible. And for that are the directive of coexistence and the royal decree of coexistence. Of course I do! Mrs Renobales told you in the committee. Yes, sir. Yes, sir. And look, the only thing I'd like to say to Mr. Telleria, who says that the right to decide... It is not necessary in that phrase to put "right to decide"! Because, of course, if you apply for authorisation competition, what difference is there between competence and right to decide, can you tell me? I do not want you to decide for all producers in the Autonomous Community; I want the producers in the Autonomous Community, each individually, to have the right to decide. I don't want the tutelage that the PNV proposes. I don't want it, we don't want it, like the producers don't want it. You must be democratic, and you must give every producer the choice given by the European directive to what production you want to choose. You don't have to decide the Basque administration. No, no, No, Mr. Telleria. That is the case, and that is what the coexistence directive says. Therefore, if you like European legislation so much, respect it. Why don't you want to respect her? Why do you not want to respect the coexistence directive? What worries you, what bothers you with that directive? Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u100	Thank you, President. Yes, Mr Tellería, today's debate, I repeat to you, on the right to decide, is not what brings us here. Today we come to talk about transgenics, we come to talk about needs, about real practices to solve the problem. I repeat again, what good is it for us to have the full capacity to decide on our crops if genetically modified organisms are not limited in our environment. There must be agreements with the rest of neighbouring communities to establish transgenic-free corridors and ensure that our crops are not contaminated. You will agree with me that there may be a risk of mixing, cross pollination. It's very easy for all this to happen, and I would say impossible to control. Tell us, if not, in your opinion, what is the solution for the protection of our products. Transgenic agriculture not only irreversibly pollutes the environment, but is totally incompatible with other agricultural models. So what is very clear is that they cannot coexist with traditional, ecological agriculture and genetically modified organisms. Another concern we have is the dark law of labelling GM foods. The aim is to block any initiative to label genetically modified foods. Consumers should know and have the option to decide whether they wish to consume this type of product, and the percentage of presence of these genetically modified organisms; those made with transgenic additives, such as flour, starch, glucose; bulk products, such as fruit and vegetables, feed and cereals; those not labelled second and third generation, such as milk and meat, fed with transgenic feed. In view of the majority rejection by consumers of transgenic products intended for human consumption, it is necessary that the products be specified on the label, something which manufacturers are trying to avoid. Traceability should be ensured throughout the food chain to track all products and transformations, from the field to the table. Just as organic or organic farming is based on the exclusive use of natural resources in a sustainable and balanced way, these products must carry the official seal of the European Union, apart from others of the country or region of origin, extending mechanisms of control of the autonomous communities, in order to ensure the variety of contents. That is why we call on the Government of our Community to ensure food quality with greater control and labelling to ensure the protection of products free of GMOs, as well as to ensure the food quality of feed used in our livestock. The Government must carry out campaigns to inform citizens and to make known what transgenics are, how these foods are produced, and what consequences they have to the detriment of people. We ask you to have enough information to ensure a healthy, safe and nutritious diet. We call on the Government to do better and necessary research and control in biotechnology and genetic engineering, and to do with the utmost protection to conventional and ecological agriculture. My group, the Socialist Party, defends and wants agriculture that is of quality and environmentally friendly. Farmers do not want to produce crops that are harmful to both health and the environment, but rely on products that guarantee them. They do not want to depend on commercial houses that seek only their own economic profit. Therefore, necessary measures must be taken to continue working for healthier family and traditional farming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u102	Thank you. Good afternoon again. Let me read it again, Mrs Fresno: "Parliament urges the Basque Government to ask the Spanish Government to have jurisdiction and the right to decide on the authorisation or prohibition of transgenics in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country reside in the Basque Government". It could perhaps be a redundancy error by saying "competence" and "right to decide"; it would be like saying "equine horse". But it could also be that the competition and, therefore, the right to say is from the Basque Government. And look, it says "to authorize or prohibit." Don't get... No, don't think I'm transgenic, or that the text is transgenic. The text says what it says, the right to decide on a competition. I repeat to you, this morning this Parliament has decided, it has had the right to decide on how to organise housing in the Basque Country. And yesterday this Parliament had the right to decide on how to ban or limit fracking in Euskadi. Right to decide (competition), only that in these two issues there is as a planning that does not allow the right to decide, which is called Constitutional Court, which always plans out there, right? We here call for competence and the right to decide without problems of constitutional courts. We don't talk about the right to decide generic, which will come soon. Because basically the Bildu Group and ours defend very different agricultural models, we have seen it many times in this Parliament; however, we also agree on some things, and in this we have agreed. It looks like that network of European regions that I mentioned before, where there were parties... there were the German Greens, there were Italian Christian Democrats, Italian radicals... and it was us. And different motivations moved us, but there was one reality: we all wanted the right to reside in the regions to decide on transgenics, and there were no higher powers (at that time the European Union, very decisive). In fact, it did not then allow states to refuse to transgenics when they decided, and now in the new directive it does. They're yielding ground. In other words, in that sense we have agreed. Nor have we come to talk about global transgenics. We have come to talk about transgenics in Euskadi, although the global reference can be used. And there are pollution problems, Mrs López de Ocariz. There are pollution problems, and I'll pass. For example, in the Ebro Delta, with IRTA rice and experiments in transgenic rice. Of course, there are pollution problems, and that is one of the most serious problems to get to the transgenics. There are, there are, and so... Because there are technical reports of all kinds and colors. Look, you basically appeal, Mrs López de Ocariz, to freedom. We have argued here that our position against transgenics – and that is why the ability to decide ours – is because of the agrarian model we have. It is a model of quality, and introducing transgenics would, from our point of view, end with that model of quality. And you appeal to freedom, and in May you presented, in full pre-election, a bill to ban in Euskadi the planting of vineyards that are not of quality, that is not of designation of origin. Are you restricting the freedom of a farmer to plant a vine that is a table vineyard and not a designation of origin? Don't tell me no, because there's the law there, I mean, all parliamentarians are going to see it. You can't deny the evidence! And we will also agree with you, because we are defending markets, we are defending quality agriculture, but a legitimate farmer can come to Berantevilla and say: "I want to put here, next to the potato, wine without designation of origin, table". And we're going to tell you no, by that law you brought here in May, in the middle of the pre-election campaign, to see if you scratched any votes. But it's there. That is to say, that we are permanently, by legislating, by organizing society, and we are defending, with a moratorium on transgenics at the moment, we are defending that farmers who want to do non-transgenic farming do not have the inconvenience they are going to have of being able to pollute them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u103	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH, and we'll vote for the Middle Amendment signed by the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes in the council are 68; the votes given, 69; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 22; the whites are 0.0; Absence is 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u104	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. The fifth point in the theme list: "Euscal Socialists made a law-grouping proposition about euscal evaluation-diagnostic systems. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Celaá, who is the representative of the Basque Socialists, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u105	Mr. President, President, head of the department. Euscalal education has a fixed system of evagnostic evaluation, which produces no tumult, and which has the complete support of educational authority, because we have proved among them that it is very useful for the real improvement of schools and students. Of course, these evaluation diagnosiss are performed at two times: In the fourth grade of high school and second grade of high school. But now the Board of Education wants to change things, and the question to be asked from the beginning is as follows: what works well, which is fully accepted, why change it? It's been quite a while, and I've got to say that the department hasn't yet given the same reason for change. Why is it more convenient for our students and schools to make this evaluation diagnosis in the third grade and not in the fourth grade? Where are the educational reports that work for this change? Who recommended this change? Who's this guy from here or is he the head of the Ministry of Madrid? That's exactly what's excited the parents. There is no imaginary compress against the head of the Board of Education, and the department has not given any reason to change, and they have perhaps begun to suspect that reasons are not to be confessed. If not, let him explain his reasons clearly. It's a sad result of that attitude. The evagnostic system, very useful to the improvement of our education, has made the decisions of the Board of Education a breach. What was for the deal is for the riot now. The unit for education isn't agreed, not the parent associations, the unions, and the societies of school directors. That's why I ask the department to go back to the system that's actually working. Therefore I urge you to do as I say, that you shall do as your fellow-citizens for this other proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, we have repeatedly said that in education, such a delicate plot, what works well, must not be changed. In education, stability over time is what makes it possible to make progress in the quality of education. Ladies and gentlemen, starting in 2009, we managed to install a culture of evaluation in the Basque education system with ambitious objectives, data rigour, a transparent and reliable system of competence measurement, which allowed us to analyse the factors and variables that have the greatest capacity to explain the results. The aim has always been to develop an evaluation process with the assumption of responsibilities by all: educational centers, administration with all its services... Finally, the system as a whole. Of course, it was not the first time that an evaluation was carried out in the Basque educational system, but it was the first time that we all wanted the results to reach the level of the centre and of the students, with external evaluation of the centre and with all the confidentiality. Never was a center ranking made public, never was any center data outsourced. An extraordinary challenge of a technical nature, with risks in its development, but it was worth it. I will highlight some positive elements. One, never before did the Basque educational system have so much reliable information about its situation: variable and factor reports, research linked to specific variables. Two, making a huge coral effort to get that information to parents, employers, trade unions, Euskadi School Council. And three, we got a good skill measurement tool, positively valued by more than 85% of educational workers. And now why are we going to change it? What is the purpose of an education? What is the purpose of an evaluation system? Of course, improving the quality of school results, improving school results. How did we do it? With a spine, diagnostic evaluation. What else? With subsequent center plans, which came out of this diagnostic evaluation. That's how we've been doing it. A plan committed to a specific objective, such as the 5% improvement in school performance in a legislature. 5%, an evaluable, computable commitment that was fed through the different references that we were getting. This has been done by the various administrations. And now what are, I repeat, the reasons for that change? What are they? Why does the Department of Education, when it has all the ordered chips on the board, hit the board and blow the chips? At the moment we know no reason for that change. None, because the third evaluation of Primary School, ladies and gentlemen, is an evaluation that corresponds exclusively to the competences assigned to it by the Education Administration. If we have no reason for change, we do, however, have reason for maintaining the assessment in room. I will give the first: the most important international evaluations applied at this stage are carried out in Primary Room. There are two evaluations of an international nature that are carried out in Primary, both driven by the IEA (the International Assessment Association), and which are the PIRLS study, for reading, and the TIMSS study, for mathematics and science. Both are done when students are ten years old, nine years old or ten years old, which corresponds to our primary education room, and also in the final stage of the course. Well, if we don't have these primary quarter evaluations, we won't be able to do studies compared to outside, with Europe and with the rest of the world. Second reason. There are no countries at European level that carry out external tests in the first mandatory stage before the fourth stage of primary education. And I will read to you very briefly the report published by Eurydice and the European Commission, entitled "National Assessment Tests in Europe". On page 29 it says: "In Europe the most common practice is that national standardized tests in CN1" (our primary education) "are conducted for the first time in the fourth or a subsequent course corresponding to the end of primary education. These tests must be used for monitoring and control purposes, and they do not – they must not – have a decisive impact on the students' subsequent trajectory." That is to say, what we have implemented in our system, which is not implemented discretionaryly, ladies and gentlemen, because fortunately we have an evaluation institute that follows European and international parameters and that has already implemented this evaluation culture since February 2009. Therefore, there are no countries at European level that do compulsory testing in third, third level of this stage. I'll give you a third reason. In a bilingual system like ours, in which the languages, the two official languages, are so far away philologically, linguistically, the settling, the consolidation of the reading script in the boys and girls is done a little later. We cannot forget that even in the immersion models (in model D, in model B) only 23.6% of the pupils part of a Basque family language, 76.4% of whom have Spanish or other languages as a family language, which requires that when they arrive at school, when they arrive at school, in the immersion model (model B or model D) in which most of our pupils are enrolled, they have to fix reading and writing in a language that is not familiar. Which obviously corresponds to a greater effort, with a greater need for time. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a very powerful reason for the standardized test – not any control that can be carried out in the third of Primary, in the second, in the first – but for the standardized test to be done a little later. That is, in the second part, at the end of the fourth of Primary Education. This is a very powerful reason, we understand that technically very relevant, and that in addition our successive evaluations have resulted in it being so. But there's still another reason I want to mention. There is no reason, neither from an educational point of view, as I have just said, nor technical, to justify the change from fourth to third of Primary Education, except for the pure application of the Lomce, in an evaluation, ladies and gentlemen, which is exclusive competence – the rest of the Lomce has not entered, we will see how it is entering – in an evaluation (we are talking about the third) which is exclusive competence of each educational administration. With what is given that the product, the result we are getting, is truly absurd. It's absurd. Because, ladies and gentlemen, when certainly more than twelve of fifteen autonomous communities are fixing governments that are not in favor of Lomce, we, with an absolutely lomcerist movement, more lomcerist than Wert himself, who is abandoning the ship – if he has not already abandoned it – are, instead of slowing down the machinery, rushing it, to the point of containing in Heziberri a change of the stage of Primaria by dividing it into two cycles. There can be the circumstance that even post Lomce we continue with an application in Primary that, ladies and gentlemen, no one is following today, except the Montessori method in childhood. Therefore, I ask common sense, sense of ownership. Insistence is not required at all. There are possibilities, as they are doing in other autonomous communities, to set internal controls (they are done in third, they are done in second, they are done in first), but a standardized test like the one we have in fourth and second must follow. And it must continue for very powerful reasons: because we want to continue to maintain the internal references that we have been generating since 2009 and that cannot be squandered, and by external references, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is very important that the Basque education system continue to resist the comparison with European and international education systems. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I call for the vote in favour of this non-legislative proposal that we have had between the Bildu Group and the Socialist Group. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Arrodo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u107	Good afternoon, everyone. As has been said, this subject which is discussing today has a direct connection with Lomce from our point of view. If Lomce hadn't been in force, we wouldn't be arguing about this. After all, evaluation and evaluation diagnostics are the tools to evaluate education system and learning processes. And these instruments may be conditioned, no doubt, by the same system. Lomc hasn't, we've often said that, with the reality of our education system, it doesn't mean the requirements that are answered, and what's worse, it supposes a very important backward step. Besides, it is an enormous obstacle to build on our education system, based on the necessity and consent of those who are in it. We don't want laws made in Madrid. We want to regulate our educational system without interference. But, sadly, Lomce is beginning to establish himself in our schools. The Board of Education has had an excellent opportunity, and has still been able to deal with Lomce, because he has the support of the community of education. But reality isn't today. There are other countries which have been mentioned here, owing to the results of the recent elections, which have begun so many steps to prevent Lomce's setting. There's Aragon, Asturyas, but there's the steps to stop Lomce from calling the medical committee of education. And we hope that Cristina Uruniant has also made some signs of doing what he hasn't done until now and giving him the necessary steps to stop Lomce's setting. But until now, as I have said, this is not a reality. Another way has been chosen, and that leads to establishing Lomce, which is the new way. From the beginning of our education, we said that Lomce was a tool and not to fight Lomce. And that's what we're looking at right here in this year. And we're seeing it especially in the First Education. There is the treatment given to religion, and at the end of the year there are those which have now changed according to Lomce, and there are, among other things, the third-rate proofs to do what there was no need to do, and yet the Board of Education has gone on with this project. The chairman of the department repeats that all this is once and for some time agreed with the community of education, because of the project of the New Testament with consent, and consequently of the third-rate proofs. And I would ask him, then, for the chief physician, who constitutes the tenor of education, because I believe that, in public, the headlines of the Christian Schools have been the soles of their union with the chief physician, all the rest of the party have concurred. And the discussion of the evaluation division in this reality is placed in this context. For us, at least, it is not only a theoretical discussion, where it is more proper to make, where we must pass, at what age, what level. It is not a mere pedagogical discussion, it has something to do with all that has hitherto been said, the setting of Lomce. And that's where we place the discussion of the evaluation diagnosis. And so far, with great harmony, I have spoken of the privations, and the need to improve them, as far as we are concerned, in the fourth-class and second-class proofs of the DBH, which have hitherto been in full force, have been done with great consent. The evaluation diagnostics, standardized evidence, have respected certain features with great conformity to the education world. They have been mentioned before: To be educated and oriental for colleges, the improvement plans of schools are made, therefore, for families; confidentiality; it has been prevented from classification among schools; and it has no academic influence, it does not represent the constant evaluation of curriculum. Besides, it had been organized up to this time in the three third cycles of primary education, and in the secondary two cycles of necessary education. And he had every logic in fourth grade, at the end of the second cycle, to make these proofs, these evaluations. But what did Heziber do? Yes, he has abandoned autonomy, he has left under the autonomy of schools the cycle has not been there, and so on, but he has accepted something that Lomc regulates. Lomc regulates that there will be two cycles, that the first cycle ends in a third grade, and makes a third level for it. I told you the same thing, it's not a two cycle, it's not a level, it's not a cycle, but it's a chance of the two cycles of practice, which's also set up as reference in the novel, it's working. And from our point of view there is no pedagogical reason for doing what Lomc says. And we don't agree. And that's why we put it in the correction we put in, first, we ask you to shut down the evidence you're setting up in the third grade, that it's a big protection for that, and that it's possible that it's possible to work with the educationmakers and agree with them. And I want to remember this also, when we speak, the representatives of the workers of teaching, the teachers, the unions, because this is often forgotten by the Board of Education, the representatives of the teachers, and where they are. In the second place, we want him to keep the evagnostic evaluations from now on, funk, keep the Boards of Education. To follow the course done is important and there's no reason why there's still less pedagogics in order not to be so. Still, we think it can be improved. What is now done in the fourth grade is that DBHn can be improved in the second degree, and that, in this case, it is indispensable to receive considerations and proposals made from the schools. I have already mentioned that the evaluation diagnosis is an instrument for improvement, which ought to be useful to it, but that it has also its dangers, and a danger of which it is at the present time seen and considered in the schools, and that it is too long to prepare these proofs, that in this case, in the fourth grade, it takes a long time to prepare them. And we all know that this is not positive, we all know what tests do in classes and how they adapt their daily routine and the development of curriculum. So we think it's a matter of consideration. There are other proposals too. Considering the age of the students, the duration of the evidence has given rise to doubts or uneasiness in the schools, because some students have misapproached such evidence, and we think it deserves to take a little walk. Around computer usage, students on this level don't have a computer in their everyday use. To use computer sets the other difficulty on the table, and brings it back in the course of the previous days to make such special studies around the use of computers, and it doesn't make too much logic. On the other hand, if it is an external act, it has no meaning, for instance, what has been done in this study, a part must be corrected by the teachers in the interior, and in many cases it has not been understood why this should be done, unless it be to save money. And on the other hand, they are evaluated only to such evaluations as these called Instrumentals, and we believe that others must also be included, why not evaluate creativity, solidarity, critical nature, and others. Therefore, as I say, defending the diagnosis of evaluation, or defending the strength of the present day, we plan that it may also be improved. And finally, it is a constant evaluation that a school really answers the needs of its pupils which enables every one's process of study. And it seems to us that when we speak of evaluation there, it is necessary that we should consider it the basis of constant evaluation in our daily life. We agreed with the Social Party. All this, all I have here, does not interfere in the medium, e.g. we wanted to include in the third-rate evidence. But we agree with what we've agreed, because after all there's no reason why we shouldn't be able to do anything on the steps that have been made up so far.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u109	Mila esker, andrea president. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, Good afternoon, everyone. We are faced with a new staging, a new staging that gives continuity to that effort that some groups have been maintaining for months in order to hinder, to harm, to paralyse in any case – unnecessarily, everything has to be said – the Organic Law on the Improvement of the Quality of Education, and to do so at the slightest opportunity (they have said it here and have signed it even outside), sometimes disregarding parliamentary procedures and also being involved in a supposed lack of dialogue that simply hid before, and continues to do so now, the true nature of their interests: or mine, or nothing. In our opinion, this debate today does not bring anything new, it does not serve to seek elements of cooperation, it does not even serve to reflect on the need to improve our educational system through an element, a relevant instrument that provides educational reform, such as the evaluation of the system itself. The only obsession that some seem to have is to hinder the Lomce. So let's get rid of the face, let's talk about education, and let's explain with clarity, first of all to families, because we're going to the bottom of the issue, what's wrong with them having reliable and accurate information about the situation of their children, what's wrong with them having information from their educational centre and from the rest of the centres. There's nothing wrong, everything's positive. And it is also necessary for them to know whether their centre meets the expectations they placed in it when choosing it, or which ones are closer to those expectations. Let us also tell the educational institutions themselves that the information that can be provided by the evaluations will enable them to verify the result of the autonomy granted to them by this law. Let us also explain to the teachers, the most appreciated guides of the students, that with the evaluations they will have an effective instrument to detect and correct the possible deficiencies of the students and also of the system, and that this will be able to lead them towards success. As the proposer herself tells us in the justification of this initiative, it allows us to have longitudinal information, and enables the impulse of processes of continuous improvement and the development of educational research. Therefore, we must also explain this to the Administration itself, to which the information from the evaluations will allow it to act in those centres that do not meet the minimum requirements required, but will also be able to detect those areas that due to their particular difficulty will need preferential action plans. And let us explain it to society as a whole. Let us tell him that for the first time there is an opportunity for equal opportunities in access to quality education as well. Can some really argue that this is bad for the system and bad for the students? The reality is that the abandonment of the functions of some governments, on the one hand, and also ideological fundamentalism, on the other, have made our education system look down on for years one of the most valued and effective measures in the search for quality education, as adopted by those countries that have, of course, achieved a remarkable improvement in the results. I'll share some data that I'm sure you already know, but we'll share them. Twenty-four of the 34 OECD countries have an external and standardized national test; seventeen countries in Europe have this test, also on a national basis. But both PISA and other international reports point out that those countries that have external and standardized tests (external and standardized tests) improve their performance sixteen points, for example. For this reason, what is important from this rostrum today is perhaps to ask for a little rigour and seriousness in the face of one of the most important and necessary changes in the education system. (I am glad that Mrs. Celaá is graced. ) It is true that the councilwoman here has stated that Lomce does not serve us because in Euskadi we have exceeded its objectives. We're not going to deny it (it's something besides what we're proud of, how we're going to deny it!) that the results of education in the Basque Country correspond to that criterion, to that data provided by the counsellor, but we cannot fall into self-complacement, and they must recognize, we must recognize that we have to improve, that we can improve much, and that, therefore, much remains to be done, in a constant process of improvement and growth. Other more modest communities in income and budget surpass us in the PISA tests: Castile and León surpass us in mathematics, Madrid and Galicia surpass us in science, also La Rioja, and in reading we surpass Madrid again, and Castile and León. We're the seventh. Moreover, with what we spend as a student in this community, we should not settle for simply being above the Spanish average. With what the Basque Country spends, it should achieve results in the PISA reports that should put us at the head of the rich regions in the OECD member countries, which unfortunately is not yet the case. It would therefore be a good thing if at least in this part of the evaluation tests we stopped living in isolation, and if they are committed to getting up from the negotiating tables and ignoring the application of a law of compulsory compliance they will turn education in our Autonomous Community into a reduction of resistance and paralysis in the face of the wave of transformation, quality and excellence towards which the rest of the system is moving. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u110	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Newori, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u111	Thank you, Chief. President, Chief, Congressman, good afternoon. Listen to what I've heard, let's start with the basics. You don't even have to say that the Jelt Party is against Lomce. We've fought Lomce every season we've got. Therefore he who tries to contradict or to express himself is not telling the truth. And then, you know, lomce's education form is completely against it. Over and over again he has expressed and shown his opposition here and there, everywhere, even in the Holy Council of Education before now. He has insisted that he has hitherto used all the resources which he has in his power to oppose Lomce, and that he will henceforth use those which are in his power, always to protect and improve the euscal educational system. And I'd like to make another story clear. For if we do not rightly establish what is the foundation of this initiative and of this discussion, we shall all be in a wheel which has no meaning at all, while this dispute continues. Here you're talking about different things as if they were just one. Here it's mixing up a little bit of everything. One thing is the internal evaluations carried out by the centres themselves, the other is the diagnostic evaluations, and the other is quite different from the final evaluations or the revalid ones. Barne-ebaluazioak, ebaluazio-diagnostikoak eta errebalidak nahasten ari zarete, eta ez ezjakintasunagatik. The diagnostic assessments are designed to know the starting point of the learning process to be addressed in each case, and thus to be able to design an educational intervention in the most adjustable way possible for each student. On the other hand, the final evaluations (the revalid ones) have the character of verification, and sometimes even certification, and according to them are made decisions of an eminently administrative type, such as overcoming a level, a stage, promotion, or a degree. And the aim of the Ministry is control of the autonomy community control and the control of the academic files of students, and as it is natural, we are not agreed and are against them. We have shown opposition to the regulation projects that take final evaluations. But the third-rate test is not a record, it's an inner proof that hasn't been influenced by schools and academic results from the student. And besides this internal proof, we have a chance to make an evaluation diagnosis, for further information on how to improve the system. So neither of them has anything to do with it. I want to focus on the evidence that have been made in the third grade, because this was supposed to be the theme the proposed team wanted to discuss. Here, as has been said, the evaluation diagnosis is progressed from the year 2009 in euscal educational systems. And the evaluation system here has special features compared to what is done elsewhere. It seems to us that these characters are of very important importance, and ought to be maintained in the further operations here and in which they are made. Among these characteristics, the confidentiality of data and results is indispensable to our team. Newly 2020 is not a tool against Lomce, but an instrument to improve the euscal educational system. That's why, as soon as the organic law has been established, I'm sure it's been necessary to ask you to protect our students, to appeal to the other Constitutional Court. But the Board of Education, apart from Lomce's attempts to avoid the consequences, began to work on his education model in the New Hezie 2020 plan. It is known to all of us that plans are prepared for three projects, and that is why I shall not be able to penetrate into them. During the last few months, a process of participation in the Basque Education Administration has been completed, which has never been very satisfactory. And right now, it's just getting the decrees from Child Education, the First Education, and the Batxiler. Of the most remarkable characteristics of the fundamental decree there is a autonomy which the schools and the organization of their establishments will have. In our opinion, for the acquisition of curriculum according to treatment, order must help to acquire basic jurisdictions. And therefore the department has proposed to extend the structure of the cycles, in order that the process of learning should be more flexible and more effective. However, colleges are allowed to continue with the current three cycles. It cannot therefore be said that, in the present organization of the First Education, there will be a rupture or an interruption. It's the third-level evaluation that the school will prepare itself with the help of ISEI-IVEI. So, it's going to be an in-lawing act. Madameburo has explained the duration of the proof, the uneasiness about the species of question, and for this very reason this demonstration has been made, in order to be well designed and defined, what proof it should be for a girl and a boy at that age. And the evaluation proposed for the sixth grade will be a evaluation diagnosis that ISEI-IVEI will do. And the evaluations which regulate these decreeal projects have only a diagnosis and improvement, which has nothing to do with the rebalds which the Ministry wants to impose upon Lomce. The eucadin planation is extremely consistent with the pedagogical pattern here and has nothing to do with Lomce. The third-rate proof we are speaking of has but one end: The improvement of the students' results and the improvement of the system. The Basque Government has explained over and over again that the test is carried out solely for the benefit of the quality of education and our students through the development of the educational model developed within the Heziberri 2020 plan. The evaluation of the third primary school does not affect the academic record of the student, that is, it is not an evaluation with academic consequences: it is an evaluation that is carried out internally in the center with the help of ISEI-IVEI, and that seeks to obtain information for the improvement of the system. It is inconceivable to us that some groups who profess the importance of the evaluation to make the diagnosis suggest to the evidence. The evaluation diagnosis is absolutely indispensable in order to continue to improve the education system, and it is incomprehensible to families to ask them not to do the evaluation of their children's condition, or to encourage them in that sense. We approach the third-party evaluation of primary education taking into account mainly two elements: Heziberri 2020, and the experience we have in the field of evaluation in Euskadi. I therefore believe that a message of absolute tranquillity must be conveyed to the families and to the whole educational community. Our correction is very clear. We demand to act in the defence of the self-generacy of Euskal, in order to continue to minimize all possible negative effects in the euscal education system. And secondly, we consider doing the evaluation diagnosis as indispensable to us, to identify the deficiencies of the system, and to pursue the measures necessary to improve the results. Thanks to the evaluations, in addition to identifying gaps and difficulties, we have come to obtain, among others, the keys of the centres of high added value. Therefore, the results have not been nor will they be to make rankings or to segregate the student, but to know where we are, in what development situation each student is in, and from there to be able to improve the learning process of each of them and them, and to advance the improvement of the entire educational system. They have been and they will be the keys of the Eupscal Jelzian Party to improve the euscal educational system.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u112	Thank you, Mrs. News. Passing on the day of the answers, the representative of the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Celaá, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u113	The truth is, Mr. Semper, you seemed nice to me, as always. [[Berber]] It's like I'm getting to talk about jet engines, which I don't even know if they exist anymore. But it is frankly incredible, but amazing, that you come to claim that we were maintaining an education of "or mine, or anyone's. But listen, if that's what you're doing, or yours or anyone's! The proof is that all the legislation in force until Lomce was a shared, agreed legislation. Pact! Not yours. Not yours. But then you've been completely wrong about music, tango, debate... It started with PISA over here, over there... I had to fill out the paper, anyway. Listen, we're talking about evaluations, we're talking about diagnostic evaluations that we've had consolidated since 2009 in this community, whose results were also taken to student, family to family, with more than 100,000 files, listen. Note: more than five evaluations with all their development, more farms on all the variables that existed in these evaluations, the results of these evaluations. An evaluation in primary room, to have two more years for center improvement plan (confidential, not rankings of public centers, no; confidential), and a second evaluation of the ESO to have another two years to correct in the center, with plans of center improvement. All that we do, because we have done it this year too, with one difference: that there has been no external evaluation, the evaluation has been done by the centers themselves. I don't like that habit, we have to improve it. But, hey, we've done five times, hey! We've consolidated the culture of evaluation, and now all of a sudden that... went! And what am I going to say to the lady... , Jone, our dear friend Jone, and Mrs. Berriozabal. What am I gonna tell them? I am very sorry that you had to enter this debate, Mrs Berriozabal, because you have left the debate. You have left the debate because you could not chew that debate. I couldn't chew it. Firstly, in the first half, Mr Semper has stuck to his heel; then he did not, but, indeed, they remained the Basque People's Party and Nationalist Party together in the defense of the Lomce. And secondly, you have had to get out of this debate by mixing a little bit of everything. Mixing everything and affirming, making us say that, listen, is that you do third to improve education, as if what was fourth and second was to make it worse! You do third grade to improve education. How are you going to improve education with an experimental pilot test, protested by all over the world, that has not been made even in a discreetly selected sample of thirty centers, whose test has only been passed by more than half? Tell me what can be deduced from there that it is solvent. Look, look, what you have to do is maintain your own evaluation system. That's our system. And, of course, the one who thinks it's the same thing to put it in the fourth and third is that he hasn't heard anything about how it's done in the world, is that he hasn't heard anything about the difference between doing a standardized test at the age of ten and doing it at the age of eight. You haven't heard anything. But I'm just going to tell you one thing, and it's that the one who talks about education, if he doesn't talk about solvent assessment, well-established evaluation, is not talking about anything, because it won't improve quality. And I want to end with something that causes me a major concern. Ladies and gentlemen, the Euskobarometer, and the Euskobarometer, which have just been handed over to me, says that only from February to April the concern in Euskadi for education, for our education system, has increased by three points. This, ladies and gentlemen, is to be thought of. This is to think about. And it's just that, in fact, let's please go back to sorting out the pieces. We have an excellent educational system; please, let us not let it down, let us not waste it. Because Lomce, Mr Semper, is about to finish dying, as you well know: out of seventeen autonomous communities, twelve have already been formed with governments that do not want Lomce. So... We already know it's an organic law. We will wait for the generals, of course, we will wait for the generals, but the only thing that has come into force is the third of Primaria, which is exclusive responsibility, exclusive competence of the autonomous communities. And I don't want this Autonomous Community, for the Lomce, to let us, let the child go through the bathtub, with the evaluations of the primary room and the second of the ESO. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, in the end, keep what we have when it is good.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Arrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u115	Mr. Sémper, I think you've made a mistake. It's either an evaluation diagnosis or not, an out-of-the-dealing, internal or not, it's not, from my point of view, what we're discussing today. We all agree, evaluation is the basis of the educational system, it is absolutely necessary to improve, including internal evaluation and external evaluation. Another dispute is, that Lomce, the Law of Lomce, which you alone impose upon the Poptular, may have in our educational system, and its consequences, is a question, that he may bring with him some grave consequences, damage, and present, either in equity, or in quality, or in certain things, or at least be deceived by it. Because the education you defend is different from what we defend, and that's obvious too. You have here, in a degree, maintained the granchigna of the schools to know the right of escellence, and I do not know where to go from excellence. You have never mentioned the importance of equity, for instance, in our educational system, in the interference of this day. Which leads us very far from the funnking, and really leads us far from educational improvement. And, on the other hand, Mrs. Newori, it's true that you've said it over and over and over again, and also the Boards of Education, that you're against Lomce and that you don't share it. But in saying this, and as true as you have expressed it, it is true that in practice the Board of Education applies what Lomc says, has begun in our education system. They didn't have to be in camps too, for example on third-level tests. Why do you have to be in the third grade? Why, in sixth grade? No one has yet given true reason. There is only one reason why Lomc does so. No pedagogical reason. There's no special consideration here about it. There's no agreement between the operators. So why? And you mention the operators, and you say that this is agreed, and Mrs. And if so, how is it possible that so many families, so many of them, should not make the third-rate proofs? Because there's no agreement. And because you don't have the argument to be in the third grade and be in the sixth grade. And I think that this is the way to be admitted, because all the rest is important about the evaluations of philosophy, but, as I have said before, we are all not arguing, at least we are all on the side of the investigation, and especially on the final evaluation, the fundamental evaluation, the daily and systematic evaluation, that progress, and so on. And we need external evaluation, too, the evaluation diagnosis, but let's talk. They're in the fourth and second grade up to this day. Why do you have to change? Well, it's the only reason Lomc sets it up. And we say, "No, that's the first point to face Lomce, which is easy, easy, easy to do and not do." So we have a problem with that level. And finally, on my part, to mention only how we see it again. We believe that we must build our education system on our side, that we must obtain extensive agreements, that we must obtain a clear and extensive participation, and that we must do that, but that we must begin with Lomce's establishment as our education system has begun this year, it is not a proper system.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u117	Yeah. Mrs Celaá, I have to thank you very sincerely, because one always learns by listening to you, and it is an opportunity for all Members of this House to have the opportunity to listen to you in this rostrum. And I'm also glad I seemed nice to you. Look, even you to me sometimes, most of the time, I think so too. [[Barres]] And I also believe, Mrs Celaá, that you are perfectly capable of talking about motors or quantum physics, and even illustrate us. I mean, don't cut yourself. I'm sure he's capable of it. Mrs Celaá, not all schools have protested this. No, no, There have been fifteen, those of the public, those who have organized themselves against the Lomce. If you are going to provide information and data, let me humbly correct it: it has not been all the educational institutions; it has been the fifteen of the public who have opposed the incorporation of the evaluation into the third. And in Spain education legislation, which has caused 25% of pupils to fail, has always been socialist. Always. In all the democratic history of Spain, Lomce is the first law that has not been passed by a government of the Socialist Party. The first one. The only law that has not been promoted by the Socialist Party. Those laws which I am sure have contributed to many things in positive, sure, but which require reform and modernisation, which is what Lomce brings, because we cannot maintain an education system with 25% failure among students. I'm sure even you share it with me. But at the end of what we are talking about here is to advance the assessment, indeed, from fourth to third. And one might ask: Why in those third-party countries, the third-party equivalent, is successful and works? And why isn't it going to work here? Why don't you propose it? Why doesn't the Socialist Party propose it? That's why? Doesn't seem like a reason for weight enough. Because, I insist, there, in the OECD countries where they have moved forward, or not, but where they have the third-party assessment, or the equivalent of what it would be for us third-party, it triumphs and gives positive results. The argument sounds scarce, because it doesn't provide more information than "Because I'm worth it and because I think it's in the fourth," Mrs. Celaá. And even if you're worth a lot, it's not a big enough argument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u118	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. In conclusion, the Eunciers represent the group, Mrs. Newori, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u119	Thank you, Chief. I repeat, it seems to me as if he was playing a great deal of trouble here and there, and that the subject we have in hand is too important and too serious, and that it is not all worth while in this discussion, but there has been a great deal of folly in the things which have been said in the course of this discussion. But it should be measured by what consequences some one can have at once. It's been said all that trying to make a cheap review. Consider, the results of these proofs are connected with either the dining-room or the transportation, and it has also been said that it may have some injurious consequences in these parts. And, indeed, rashness is only an example of what has come to it, and if it follows that way, the uneasiness of education will not rise. And, Mrs Celaá, I think that, if you refer to the document that was published today, it was the Sociometer, not the Euskobarometer. The ones who went to schools and meetings in February to make the model were well aware that they were working an education model, and the evaluation is an instrument that is indispensable for the education modeling. It has been considered that the conduct of diagnostic assessments of instrumental learning (of oral, written and mathematical competence) makes more sense in third rather than in Primary Room, for a very simple reason: the possibility of detecting as soon as possible the difficulties for oral comprehension and expression, for reading or writing, as well as for the development of logical and arithmetic procedures. And the information obtained enables decisions to be taken and corrective measures to be taken as early and preventive as possible. Hortaz, oinari pedagogikoa izan badu. Eubertarians have come up against Lomce over and over again, Mrs. Arrido, out here and out of here. At this very moment, our party condemned Lomce for many months and years. EH Collect can't say the same thing because he didn't do that here. I heard he's been quiet for the past few weeks. If you look at the 54 of the decree project. the article, it is plain, which is supposed to be so secret, manifests itself in the eyes of all, this third-rate phrogation. And like many others, you also had the chance to contribute, and EH Billah said nothing about the evaluations. So you will tell me the origin of that anxiety or anxiety which suddenly comes to you. And Mrs Celaá has two main concerns. One has to do with the continuity of the data series of diagnostic assessments, and it gives me the feeling that you really don't care about that. You are not concerned about this, because if you had done so you would have accepted the proposal we sent you, which envisaged continuing to carry out diagnostic assessments to a representative sample of the primary and secondary fourth groups, which would have allowed us all to continue to have longitudinal information on the situation of our education system. Therefore, that argument is of no use to us. And the second argument is that he is concerned that, according to which courses the evaluations are conducted, there is insufficient time to develop and implement improvement plans in the centres. So, I've started thinking, when you were a counselor, to see if you could tell me in what course you delivered the information obtained from the evaluations you had conducted in the course itself, so that you could implement the improvement plans as soon as possible. And the result is that you never, ever delivered the results so quickly that you could implement the improvement plans immediately. We say again, the Eucat Party has a great experience in defending the euska auto-gronger. And as for Lomce, there is no doubt about it, we shall do all we can to protect our jurisdiction from all the institutions we have in our representation. But not only as to evaluation, but a lot of other things in Lomce worry us about the evacuation. That's why, taking advantage of the self-portrait we've got and thinking that it's good for our education system, he's making 2020 plans for New York. And they're targeted by the Jeltt Party and by the name of the Red Munchion People. They're meant to be students. That's why we'll continue to act responsibilities for the students' interests and the whole educational system. And that's after all in the heart of our correction. We believe that our team's correction is perfectly acceptable to everyone who acknowledges the importance of evaluation as opposed to Lomce. That's why I'm asking you to vote for our corrections. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u120	Thank you, Mrs. News. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Middle Amendment signed Euskal Socialists and the EH Collectors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the suffrages given in the assembly, 69; the 70s, the 36s; the contrary, 7; the whites, 0; the Absencesion, 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u121	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. The sixth point has been withdrawn, the seventh point in the subject-list: "Gather the other bill made by the legislatures, concerning the goods the Catholic Church immutated. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Łódź de Munin is the representative of the EH team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u122	Good afternoon. The discussion that EH Collect has brought to this meeting today is important in our opinion. First of all, I'd like to thank you and congratulate you on the great work of Navarre platform all these years. Also, thank you for all the people who have worked for public and general interest just because their work has been very important. For it is well known that public institutions in this respect have made decisions contrary to the general interest. Thus the Catholic Church has made it easy for them to support the goods which belonged to all. It is clear that there was a problem when the Mortgage Law was given to us since 1944. It is clear that there was a problem when, after the entry into a process of supposed democracy, certain rights that existed were not eliminated to reward the invaluable help of certain sectors of the Church in maintaining Spanish fascist national-Catholicism. It is clear that there was a problem when in 98, and thanks to a royal decree in the Aznar government, the Church was equated with any public entity, and it was allowed to take possession of properties in an absolutely unjust and irregular manner. It is clear that there is a problem when registrations were not a problem until the people of Nafarroa began denouncing expropriations. It is clear that there is a problem when we are at 2015 and we still do not know what and why the Catholic Church has been able, until this month in which the Mortgage Law was amended, to continue freely with this expoliation. For it is not all the work of the Church that [is] in the hands of the elders. Even polyticically, there are plain managers with names. Not everything is the Church's fault. There are obvious political responsibilities, not only of the ultra-Catholic government of Aznar, but of all those governments that have allowed and allowed this situation to take place and continue over time. Making a little history, we can say that, although the records of the property had already witnessed many registrations by the Church during the last 20th century, the scandal starring the Catholic Church with the registration of at least – are data of Nafarroa all of them – 1,087 real estate, 851 places of worship and 236 of various kinds (and we talk about houses, locals, cemeteries, farms, pastures, vineyards and even pediments)... Everything occurs with the amendment of Article 5 of the Mortgage Regulations carried out by Royal Decree 1867/1998 of 4 September, made during the first legislature of Aznar and his Government of Legionaries of Christ and Opus Dei, which, apart from modifying things, did not modify Articles 206 of the Mortgage Act and 304 of its regulations, clearly pre-constitutional and which are the ones that empower the Church to carry out such fraudulent inscriptions. The reason given by the representatives of the Church for the registration of the goods has been that they already belonged to the Church from time immemorial, so registrations were only the way to give a legal formality to the previous fact of their property. "The kingdom of heaven is not of this world," they tell us, but in case, they put to their name in this world all that has not belonged to them and for which they have never worked to achieve it. If a thorough historical examination is performed, it is evident that parishes, rhymes, cathedrals, and basilica have been built by the people, and that the people have kept them for many years. And as the community compels it, the people have paid everything against the will, the will, or the will. It has been thus for generations, that they have kept themselves among the neighbours who cared for this building, with the medium of municipal councils and councils. This is confirmed by the books of records, and anyone who approaches the parish and notary municipal archives immediately discovers who and how he decided to raise churches, hermitages, cemeteries or houses of the priests. It appears how much it cost, how the money was collected, to whom the tower, the altarpiece, the bell, the image of the patron or the virgin was paid. Obviously, neither the bishops nor the clergy have had a production system capable of generating and justifying the construction and maintenance of all these buildings. They had quite the perception of tithes and the firstfruits of neighbors and neighbors. And it is that, as has always happened, for some to live as god of the revenues of the work of others, there must be a power that maintains their privileges. But, back to the subject, many of these places contain countless artistic works: altarpieces, sizes, paintings of incalculable material, artistic and heritage value. Almost all of your invoices are credited to the corresponding files. Does that also belong to the Catholic Church? The different political epochs (we talk about liberal constitutions, de-amortization, republics, Francoism...) did not change practically that kind of legal limbo in which these collective public goods were found. Who would have thought of registering the consistory house, the square, the pediment, the cemetery or the church? For here it is that, for the amount of between twenty and thirty euros, the Archbishop of Nafarroa proceeded to register practically everything, from simple hermitages to Santa Maria la Real de Uxue, San Saturnino de Artaxona or the cathedrals of Tutera and Iruña, claiming, against the historical evidence, that they belonged to him from time immemorial. We don't know if he meant him or his immortal soul. The claim of the right of ownership of the Church by the destiny to the Catholic cult of certain buildings is another fallacy. The episcopal consecrations for sacralizing spaces in order to celebrate religious worship, as well as apostolic blessings or papal bulls granted in some cases, are expressions of rank and ecclesiastical significance, but do not constitute title of any property, at least in this world. In this context, EH Collectech introduced this initiative just because the platforms of the Navarre were handed over to us. The reasons were clear: The news that had been made public at Navarre spoke of this, namely, that the Church was immutating the public estate. On the other hand, EAE was not mentioned. Although today's point is very related to matters of faith, we and we do not believe that we should leave this matter to the good faith of the Church and its fulfillment of the seventh commandment, that of "you shall not steal." That is why we presented this initiative, because we wanted to involve all public institutions in the defence of public heritage. We wanted the properties usurped into the public heritage by the Catholic Church to be reversed, if that were the case. We wanted to defend and protect what was owned by the peoples, the people and no one else. That is why we presented the initiative, in which we even talked about the unconstitutionality of articles 206 and 207 of the Mortgage Law. Today we have been able to reach a compromise with the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party. I'm going to read you the agreement we've reached. First point: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government and the Government of Spain to request, as a matter of urgency, the decanate of Euskadi Property and Mercantile Registrars to collect from the register holders of the respective property registers the list of all the registrations and corresponding data made by the Catholic Church in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country since the entry into force of the Spanish Constitution of 1978". Second point: "The Basque Parliament requests the Basque Government, following the receipt of the list referred to in point 1, to draw up a final report within six months, containing all the assets that since the adoption of the Constitution have been registered in favour of the Catholic Church and the public investments made by the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in those assets. This report shall be sent to the public administrations concerned and to the Basque Parliament in order to facilitate the recovery of the corresponding ownership." Third and last point: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government, together with the outlaws, to provide the local authorities of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country with legal and historical information on the origin and rights of their public heritage, as well as to actively support them in the recovery of the goods improperly registered by the Catholic Church". Many things remain in the air with this transaction, such as the need to declare articles 206 and 207 of the Mortgage Law unconstitutional, but I can say, after talking to people from the Nafarroa heritage defense platform, that today we have reached a good agreement here. Therefore, I would like to encourage the rest of the groups to support this transaction with their vote, because I do not believe that anyone here today can defend the display of public goods, even if this theft is carried out by the Catholic Church itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u123	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u124	Good afternoon, everyone. Well, we are actually talking today about a special situation that has been described by the proponent who spoke earlier, by Mr López de Munain, and we are talking above all about a situation that is contrary to the most obvious democratic principles. It is contrary to democratic principles because especially the situation we had so far attributes to the Catholic Church the treatment of public administration, and therefore gives it the power to register, to register as its own, as if it were a council or a deputy, those goods for which it does not have a title of ownership and, however, can register them as its own. That ended last week with the approval in the Congress of the Deputies of the amendment of the Mortgage Law and of the Catastro, and in that they have had to see two things fundamentally. One, the relevant role of the Socialist Party, so I am going to comment on the amendments it has introduced, and the other, the social climate, coupled with that political impulse that the Socialist Party has been able to represent in this case, that there are things that are not anachronisms, but are unacceptable for anti-democratic reasons, because they violate the separation Church-State. That it has nothing to do with the Church not being a respectable and respected institution, of course, but with the separation of Church and State, which is already well, and this time at least on this we have definitively settled. He said that the Socialist Party, in order to correct this situation, tabled in Congress three amendments (apart from others, but three relating to this issue). One to prevent that situation from continuing, so that section 206 of that Mortgage Act and the corresponding regulations were eliminated, and that was ultimately accepted. There have been other groups that have supported it, and above all there has been great pressure. As I suppose the representative of the People's Party – because we know each other and I'm seeing Mr. Damborenea – will say "But if they have absolute majority! If they could have approved it!"... Of course!, but it is that in the bill that came out of the government this article went, and if it was removed, late, it was by an amendment of the Socialist Party, which supported a social and political pressure that was ultimately unacceptable to the government. Secondly, to prevent the extension of this situation. Because in that bill too, in a final provision, in the fifth, the law would come into force the day after its adoption, but, incidentally, for the matter of the Church, after a year. With this it was given a year so that those bishops who wished could finish the work of registration of those goods for which they had no title of ownership. It took a while to get rid of it, but that was also eventually removed from the law, because it was entrepreneurship. Socialist amendment. And the third was a procedure for redressing the damage: the Spanish Government was asked to make a study of the situation in which property that had been registered without having been accredited by the Church could be used by the Spanish Government to replenish the original situation of public use property. That public goods are imprescriptible, at no time should they have become property of the Catholic Church, and less so. Well, well, this wasn't accepted by the People's Party. That is to say, the Government does not want to know the situation of something that, by accepting the other amendments, recognizes that it is wrong, and, on the other hand, does not want to take over, as it would be for a government that wants to restore an undemocratic situation and that violates rights no less than the various municipalities, the efforts of the public budgets of the various institutions, the maintenance of temples, cemeteries and others that are not of religious use, of other objects of religious use, that the collective maintenance of citizens over time has made them there. For the government has not wanted to re-establish that situation; it does not want to be the one who, once the situation has been known, appeals – which can be appealed to the courts; for that no unconstitutionality appeal, which would be possible, is not necessary – and refuses to do so. That is the position of the current Government, of the Government of Spain, of the People's Party. I want to make it clear that we socialists are not opposed to the Church registering property. Well, I'd just miss it! Like any entity, like any natural or legal person! Those for whom you have a title, like everyone else. But do not register, do not register as your own those that are of public use for which you do not have a title of ownership. That's the difference, as clear as it is for others. It's a Constitution. And he said it's true that this article is unconstitutional, on a double basis. On the one hand, because the Constitution says in its article 16 that no confession will have a state character, and yet they have given it treatment of public administration, aggravated because in 98 the government of Mr Aznar it is true that it took the last step, granting the Church the possibility to register as own the buildings of worship, which up to that time had been exempt. What Franco hadn't done was done in '98. Well, in the end, this whole thing is over with the processing of this law, but there's the repair of what's wrong, especially... And for that in today's transaction, between the Basque Nationalist Party, Bildu and the Socialists, we propose some very simple things: that both the Basque Government and the Government of Spain ask the property registrars' colleges to send the registration data since the adoption of the Constitution, to analyze them and to make a study; that then support be given to those municipalities that want to appeal through the courts those cases that are inadequate. Because they need support from the institutions, especially the smaller municipalities, from the larger institutions, such as the Chambers or the Basque Government. And we believe that the Basque Government should not see this as a onerous job, but rather as something that connects it with the citizenry, going in tune with the times and, ultimately, entering a path that corresponds to it from the point of view of political sensitivity, of, from a global perspective, trying to identify a damage that is obvious. That it does not harm any institution, except those to which they have been taken, without any title that would permit it, property that was theirs by tradition. Because the use for worship does not give title to any institution. The title is given by other documents. And finally, in case someone believes that there are no cases in Basquedi, I have asked at the College of Registrars (i.e. nobody tells me that you cannot ask), at last, I have asked at the College of Registrars, and it is true that, logically, I have not been given an individual detail of each of the cases, but I have been told statistically clearly that in Basquedi since 1998 – which is the data I have been given – 425 registrations have been made, with a possible error of 7%, because there are 7% more rights than farms. In other words, there are farms in which the Church has registered two goods (at least two goods), which can be a chapel and a cemetery, or a pediment and God knows what. But of the order of four hundred registrations, since 98, it has done the Church in Euskadi. Then there is an issue to be addressed. And nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u125	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. Eubertarians, Mr Arieta-Aunabeña, your word is yours. MARI-REERBERTY, Mr. IBARERAL: Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good evening to all. We've already discussed the proceedings as to what the Catholic Church has created, and we've signed a halfway correction to the Basque People, the Socialists of the United States. What is our intention in this medium signed? In view of the controversy that has arisen as a result of the procedure in force so far for the registration of the property of the Catholic Church, with the transaction that we have signed with the groups Euskal Herria Bildu and the Socialist Group, we pursue the following objectives. First of all, we want to bear in mind that the registrations made by the Catholic Church are correct, and that no public goods or non-manial goods that do not correspond to them have been registered. That is why, instead of putting the limit on the entry into force of Royal Decree 1867/98 of 4 September, we have put it on the entry into force of the Spanish Constitution of 1978. Secondly, it is proposed to consider the steps to be taken, where appropriate, for the recovery of ownership that might be the responsibility of public administrations. Thirdly, it is intended to provide local authorities with the necessary advice and support, where appropriate, to recover property that they may be entitled to because it has been improperly registered, as I say, where appropriate, by the Catholic Church. Finally, we consider that there is no remedy of unconstitutionality against the regulations that have been in force until now, but we believe that the question of unconstitutionality is open to possible improper registrations by the Catholic Church, and that it would have the same effects, if any, as the remedy of unconstitutionality. Indeed, I could continue with a historical journey and even the legal aspects of the whole procedure and why this model, but I think it does not come at this time, and, although I think it is a really exciting debate and I would be willing to have it at any time, I think I will leave it here for today, because I think that is more than enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u126	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. Passing to teams that don't show any correction, representing the Basque Potulag, Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that I don't know how to qualify the debate, the transaction, the initial proposal, because sometimes it's quite hallucinating coming up to this rostrum. Anyway, the world started before Franco, and the Property Registry, I don't know, a hundred years before Franco. I'm saying it so that some people will find out what these things are about. And the modification that was made after the Civil War was a consequence of a law of the early 1930s, which, if they want, is read the Journal of Sessions, and it is not a deputy of the People's Party who explains it (explains another deputy of another party, and then likewise they pay more attention to what happened), how the Church put trusts in order not to steal the property, and then, after the Civil War, that regulation was changed so that the real owners could recover the property and put it in his name. Then, when you speak to him of the decree of the time of Aznar, it is that you forget one thing. The Spanish Property Registry today, and fifty years ago, and one hundred years ago, and one hundred and fifty years ago, and two hundred years ago, is a record that protects third parties. It is not a record that protects the owner or the owner theoretician. But you should all know that! Mr. Reyes pointed that out, didn't he? He's pointed it out. But because you have your apartment in your name in the Property Registry does not imply that it is yours; it gives a presumption, but does not imply that it is yours. And that presumption is good in front of the third one you buy. In Spain's legislation it was prohibited to register property that could not be sold, because, as it was a register of property to sell and to protect the third party in good faith who believed that he bought it from the owner, there were real property that was prohibited to register. And that is why the Church did not have the cathedrals, nor did many municipalities have their own property registered in the Property Registry, because they were unsellable and therefore had no access to the registry, because there was no need to protect third parties from potential buyers. And someone decides that that's unconstitutional, and changes the decree you were saying with Aznar, for what? So that all assets can be registered. And since then, that you know and that you know, the public administrations, all – those towns or municipalities that you say – are obliged to register all their property, even the non-marketable ones, even the neighboring mountains. They are bound, it is your responsibility, of each of the managers of these administrations, and I don't care whether they are municipalities, joint ventures, parliaments or governments. They are obliged, more than fifteen years ago, to put their property in their name. So, what is pilgrim is that at this point you come to us saying that is that the Church such, I don't know what. Look, I don't know any cases in the Basque Country, and I haven't heard any of you tell us, in the Basque Country, which municipality is pleading against the Church because the Church has appropriated a good that is of the municipality. That he can do it, because the real owner can do it... I do know of a case in which the Church has lost a lawsuit. And it's not against any city hall, eh!, it's against a private company. Why? Because the private company was a buyer in good faith, it was a third party that had bought from another, and within that land there was a church. That then the Catholic Church would like to enroll her in his name? Done. Third in good faith, and "that's mine." And that lawsuit has been lost by the Church. But I do not know in the Basque Country any municipality that is claiming that the Church has stolen anything from it, as we are hearing here. And, Mr. Reyes, we need to have... Quail, let's leave it in quail. Let's see, it is the law of the People's Party, this bill of 23 June 2014, and not any amendment of the Socialist Party, which says that section 204 replaces 206, and prohibits the Church from registering property. And I'm going to remind you that your party made a return vote, and I'm going to remind you that, when a few days ago this law that modifies the registration, the Mortgage Law, you have voted against it! They've voted against it! It's just that, listen, it's not being pointed out here that the Socialist Party made an amendment... That was in the bill, which the Church could no longer register, because time and place had had. And he says, "And it took a year to process the law." But how many postponements of amendments have you requested? Thirty. Thirty! Not to mention other groups! And he's been telling us and he wants to put... That is, you come, you come out here, you give birth to the law that the People's Party has passed with votes against the Socialist Party, and you come to put on the medal that it is the law that, thanks to the Socialist Party, prohibits the Church from doing this. Listen, as far as I know and remember, you have been ruling in Spain for over thirty years, thirty-five years at the time of Felipe González. After Aznar came a gentleman named Rodríguez Zapatero, ruled another seven years. I don't know any legislative initiative from any group proposing this in Congress. None. Never. Don't come up here now and put on medals, when you've voted against! Because they could have abstained ("We don't completely like the law")! No, they voted against. But they voted even in the consideration, which was not even taken into consideration. I mean, don't come to us now and say these things. Man, with regard to the amendment, now, well, as this must already be this toast to the sun... First point: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government and the Government of Spain"... Both of you. What do we want, by duplicating the report, to ask the Basque Government, the Spanish Government, and then compare them to see if they agree with what the Registrars have sent? And it says, "No, until the entry into force of the Spanish Constitution." And why until the entry into force of the Spanish Constitution? What's the matter, that there's only the right to ownership of public administrations since the Spanish Constitution, or what? If you're ready to make us great, we can go two hundred years back! If we're talking property, property registration, mortgage law, we're not talking about political regimes! It has nothing to do with it. I don't know why they put it on, but, well, I don't know what it does, because, I'm telling you, I don't know any town halls that feel outraged or stolen by the Church, at least in the Basque Country... The second: "The Basque Parliament requests the Government, after receiving the list, to prepare a report containing those goods that have been registered by the Church... and this report shall be sent to the public administrations in order to facilitate the recovery of their respective ownership." But, let's see, it's just that I'm hallucinating a little too. In other words, the newest, the most modern, the most innovative administration here is the Basque Government. In other words, the Basque Government would have to have the least title. I mean, if the city halls... It is also a way to treat the municipalities and the diputations..., as little ones not, as little ones: "We are going to tell you what was yours, which you do not know, to see if you find out." I don't think anywhere, of course those I know, anything like this happens. And the third, then, is more of the same: "... Historical legal information relating to the origin of their rights and heritage". Well, you hear me, every municipality... Well, look, almost everyone. And from the Catholic Church, look, I'm going to tell you one thing. Almost all of his titles have been by inter vivo donation or mortis cause, but not from now on, eh! About 2,000 years or so have been receiving money like this. Moreover, note that in the Old Fort of Bizkaia, when talking about the legitimate, that people do not know why they are, they put four fifths, and only one, a fifth of free disposition, of the legitimate, which was so that the Church could only take a fifth. And that's about six hundred years ago. Now, that we're more fantastic, next week we're gonna bring in the modification of that, and we're gonna make the legitimates practically disappear. It's going to be reduced to a third. You do not believe that you are so modern and that you know everything, because maybe six hundred years ago you turned out to be smarter, and you discovered that the way that, in the end, some did not keep everything was certain legal rules.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u128	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing on the answers, socialists, Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u129	Thank you, President Anderea. Mr. Damborenea, I already feel like you've been out here lately manipulating data, information. It happened – but I didn't have a replica when that – at last last week, and it happens today. But the main problem of discussing recently with the People's Party is a problem of finding ourselves in a political space where discussion is possible, because you suffer from social autism. We are talking about laws, we are talking about something that affects democratic principles, the Spanish Constitution, the sensitivity of people, something that is gaining strength in recent years because it is constantly in the press, and you cling to things that – that I am not going to enter, because, if not, I don't have time – but like they have an obligation to register... That's absolutely false, that's absolutely false. I've talked to registrars, and I've asked for the data for that, for this matter. It's absolutely false. And public administrations can, they don't have the obligation. They can, they don't have the obligation. And the public administrations there are a lot of public buildings that haven't registered, because they haven't. Well, for starters, the streets. Look, for bringing the matter to the fore, I don't see any city halls and no deputies writing down the streets or the roads. Why? Because they're for public use, and that's it, and that's it. But, finally, leaving that, I was telling him about social autism because I think that really in this, in the VAT of culture, and in other matters, he is unable to perceive what it means that initiatives of these, when we agree very different groups, that it is not (needs not) against the People's Party, it is because it is really something that now socially matters a lot, it is a bit of social sensitivity, and because it is time, and as time goes on, that disagreements involving unconstitutional attitudes or facts are being corrected. Look, he says I have a lot to say about the amendments. I just want to read to you, from the Congress of Deputies, March 9, 2015, summary of amendments, and one of them (I am not going to read the three I mentioned, I hope it is worth it with one) says precisely "Abrogationary provision, regulatory repeal", and in paragraph 3 says "repealing", eh!): "... Article 206 of the Mortgage Law and concordants of the Mortgage Regulation in those extremes in which the Catholic Church is attributed, when it lacks the written title of domain, the power to register immovable property in the terms in which it enjoys the State, the province, the municipality and the corporations governed by public law." I mean, what we were discussing. How can an amendment be accepted if it is deleted from the draft? How is that possible? Is it not true that in the fifth final provision there was a year (one year) for the law to enter into force only in the aspect concerning the registrations of the Church and that this has been removed? Isn't that right? Well, I mean, I think that, look, the best defense would have been, instead of saying the things he said, that besides, not even the historical argument is the one that says the decree, because it talks about the depreciations... Of course, we went back a hundred and fifty years, and you went to the Second Republic. But that is not the question, that there are disagreements committed by the Church as an institution with an incredible, incredible rapacity. The College of Registrars says that in Euskadi there are four hundred fixed ones, and La Seo de Zaragoza has been published in all the newspapers, which is not since they accepted, for example the bishop at the time, a regulation that was in force; it is that it did so in an absolutely illegal form. Because before 98, after putting in 4 million euros of public money the institutions for their reform, he registered it when they finished those works, when the decree of 98 had not yet come out, also giving him the power to register, even if they were not his property, those goods of use for worship. And the bishop did. So, let's see if we focus a little on these things, because denying the sun goes out the east... You may have your nuances and want the water to go through a channel, and you will have your arguments, but when you brush off evidence, it's that you don't have solid arguments. And that's what's happening to you today. And finally, he says why we ask the Government of Spain and the Basque Government to claim the College of Notaries. Look, the socialists, in Congress... the Government of Spain was asked to give the list of registered property since 98, was asked, and said, having the Government the address of the registry in the Ministry of Justice, he said that he did not have such data. Which is true: the registrars have them. But he has the ability to ask for them, and he didn't care. He said, "I don't have them." That's social autism, that's not wanting to repair a damage. That's right. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u130	Eskerrik asko, yellow Reyes. Arieta-Araunabeñona jauna, zurea da hitza. ARIETA-ARAUNABEÑA IBARZABAL jaunak: Yes, the truth is that I did not intend to intervene now, Mr.Damborenea... [[Barres]] Yes, despite the laughter, it's absolutely true. I had no intention, but you have asked some questions that I believe deserve to be answered. You said why even the Constitution. Well, well, the reason is... I've tried to explain it before, but I don't think I've made it clear enough. As you know, with the application of Royal Decree 1867, of 98, it allowed for the registration of what could not be registered before, which were the property dedicated to worship, but neither could the public domain property be registered. Hence, from there there may be a certain problem that some public goods may have been registered. And I don't want to go back to de-amortization, because we would go to the 19th century, but, as you also know, not all the assets of de-amortization, for example, were sold to finance the arks and some gave themselves up for worship, for example to parishes, and there might be doubt, for example, whether they are goods of public domain or not. For setting just one example for them. I don't want to go in either. I'm telling you, it's an exciting debate, but I don't think it's the place or the moment. On the other hand, why even the Constitution? Because, of course, those who are not demanial goods, in those cases is usufacture, as you know, after the ten years of registration, for just title. In that case, the only remaining possibility would be the question of unconstitutionality. And the question of unconstitutionality would be due to unconstitutionality which, logically, has to be since the entry into force of the Constitution. Well, trying to clarify this in a simple and simple way, which I already know requires more debate but which does not take place, I was also asking why the listing is requested and why it is going to be sent to other administrations. Man, because listing is necessary to really know what is what has been registered and what is not. I think that's obvious. And on the other hand it is also said that the investments made by the Autonomous Community in these goods must be seen, because it can probably also give some clues as to what it was talking about a moment ago in the public domain or not in the public domain. And finally, with regard to advice to local authorities, it is something that corresponds, as you also well know, to the parliaments. In any case, in conclusion, I want to say that it is good for all who have no doubts about the ownership and better right of the goods registered by the Catholic Church. We believe that the Catholic Church itself would benefit most from this, since it would cast doubt on its best right to registered and registered property. As far as public administrations are concerned, they are logically obliged, on the one hand, to defend public assets and, on the other, to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of laws. So, with the transaction we have signed, we think we will all win, because it will clear up the doubts that exist today because of a procedure that has been questioned for various reasons, but also because of its possible unconstitutionality. So, I'm not going to get any longer. I hope I've answered at least. I've tried to answer what I was asking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u131	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u132	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Reyes, "social sensitivity", "against democratic principles"... And did you find out when the People's Party repealed it? And while ruling the Socialist Party, were democratic principles fulfilled and there was no social sensitivity? Sure! Hey, you've ruled thirty-five years in Spain! That until yesterday, until three years ago, they were in the Government of Spain! Where was your social sensitivity? And where were their democratic principles? Have you recovered them with the People's Party? Welcome to the club. Welcome to the club. I understand that it bothers them, that it bothers them that it was the People's Party, the Government of the People's Party, that it was the Church's privilege. I'm sorry to bother you. But, at least, I told you before, they could have abstained. They've voted against it! And you say to me, "We had an amendment..." (who sends eggs!"...we had an amendment to the additional provision so that if Article 206 kept saying...". Look, it's just that in the bill, if you'd looked at it, 204 was the one that charged it. Shit! An amendment in case 206 keeps saying those things. Man! You'll know why...! You do know why they voted. Why have they voted against that law, the taking into account of the law? Why did they ask for 30 postponements of amendments? Why do you come now to tell us these things here, when you have done nothing, but quite the opposite? Or, well, some others' cinnamon also with the Córdoba mosque. That is also for note, that a judge must come out to say that, finally, there was a donation in the 13th century to the Catholic Church, and, finally, it has title to property. She's been having it for almost a thousand years, but there's some freaks coming here... Look, when you talk to me about social sensitivity, I'll tell you one thing. What happens is that I do not enter, even if it is good and very popular on the street, to come, as others come, to disqualify free of charge the Catholic Church, which, by the way, gives me absolutely the same, but they could have the least decency, when they refer to others... Because to see if here what has to be applied is that, as the thief believes they are all of his condition, maybe some thought that if they could have done this they would have done it to steal. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u133	Thank you, Mr. Danborene. End of discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect, the Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendment that has been signed by Eucabertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 68; the votes given, 69; the supporters, 62; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 7.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-06-18.u134	It's accepted. Since the list of subjects has been exhausted, I look upon the whole meeting as an end. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-six.
