ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u0	Good morning. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, we will call the congressman Manuel Michelena Iguarán. [[It's in.]] I inform you that four and six points in the subject list have been left for another purpose. First point in theme list: "The examination of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, of Javier Ruiz de Arbulus Cerio, Jon Azkue Manterola, Eva Juez Gartua, Patxi Elolapeitia, and of the compliant state of the members of Oiangua. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to speak for the resolutions? Do any of the legislatures want to speak against or against the judgment? We have simply voted the consent of the union committee, except those of the legislatures which relate to this judgment, all the rest, but not those members of the legislature, except those mentioned. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 60; the supporters 60; the opponents are 0; the white ones are 0; the abstainers are 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u1	Reason has therefore been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Provide the other proposal of the legislature made, concerning the rejection of the legal proposition of changing the Constitutional Court of Catalonia. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Ariz, representing the EH Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u2	Good morning, everyone. October 22nd today, so it was 21 yesterday, the 21st of October 2015. And if, as in Back to the Future film, Marty McFly Hill Valley hadn't appeared among us, there had been no traffic between us, no traffic in time, no holograms to visit relatives, no aerpathini, no signs of independence in the Spanish State. Not 30 years, but in this case 40 years, and as far as the independence of the Judicial Power is concerned, we can say that we are worse than 40 years ago in the Spanish State. Even physically not only in time, the separation of Locke, Montesqueau, and the powers of Madrid was very far away. The division of powers is one of the principal columns of modern law-state right. But in the Spanish State, there's a joke. It is one of the principal reasons why, strictly speaking, no division of powers is to be shown that the democratic quality of the Spanish State is very poor. We didn't invent it because it's not the only EH Collect says. In the national scale, according to the ratio of the World Economic Forum annually performing, 2012, and 2013. Spain was in the 60s of years behind China. But a year later, he went down to 72th, by Iran's side. This year's engine has not yet appeared, it does not seem that Spain will rise. But it is not only World Economic Forum, but also the Council of Europe has remarked that the inhabitants of Europe, in the whole Union of Europe, have established the independence of the Judicial Power of the Spanish Common-wealth in the 26th place. In the Spanish State the Judicial Power is perfectly handsomed, or, in other words, the Legislative Powers, and Executions of Power, possessed entirely of the Judicial Power, which is confiscated. If the judges do not do what the political party in power wants, this political power itself changes the judges. This is the only case when this political party has not had the opportunity of putting a judge under its command, and, of course, when they are placed in the political parties before him. What I have just said has been suffered on our skin. It is forbidden to create at present, because the Popular party had not had time to change the judges appointed by PSOE in the Supreme Court, that is to say, the only reason. I do not think that we owe anything to the judges of PSOE, but it is very strange that the judges should do their work without any exact criterion or political command. It is probable that during these days the existence of the National Court, which is now being a member of the Internationalic and international region of the people, explains the manner in which the political power of the Spanish State, whether over or below the right, is exercised by the Judicial Power to protect the interests of the State. The National Court has been used without any complexity in order to punish political independent activity. Thus the judge himself was ordered to arrest Arnul, and to be put to prison, when he is now out of the national court, that is to say, when he is freed from political slavery, he says that Arnuldo Ore, to work for peace, he ought to be in the streets. That's impressive. But the National Court isn't the only one, of course. The state of the Supreme Court is no better, and the Supreme Court of Catalonia, who intends to judge of the word and decision of the people of Artur Mass, is not far off. Of course, the Upper Court of Euskade also judged President Ibarche, and, of course, in another degree the court will have the honour of judging my own political activity. The courts of justice in the Spanish State are too frequently used to answer political questions. With this permanent attitude, the state shows the difficulty of giving political questions to political affairs, and its impotence. Instead of a democratic debate and respecting the decisions of the people, he prosecutes the political party; he prosecutes, judges, and punishes them. This is the magic formula which the Spanish State makes use of to solve its chief political affairs. Of course, there are times when the judges complain themselves, considering that the legislation they use in their hands is cut off from them. They then require the political owners to prolong or to twist the laws. It is not difficult, it is easily settled, because the political power extends a little to the law, or twists the law a little, in order to facilitate the exercise of the judges, in order to prosecute, judge, and punish them. It sometimes happens that when the law has been so twisted, a very slight relation, it has scarcely any relation to justice. At other times, the laws of oppressing basic rights become a machine for crushing them. It is not the question that this or that has happened sometimes, but that in the Spanish State it has become the customary and the only way to deal with political affairs. To oppose political debate, to reject the public opinion, and to punish, and punish, the political enemy who has created the matter. An exemplary punishment, let no one repeat what the former did. Yesterday we were surprised by a new operation of the Civil Guard in Catalonia. I don't know if it really surprised us, or we were expecting it too. It will not be us or us, it will not be this bench that will defend neither political practice, nor much less institutional practice during decades of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia. We are not going to be from this bench who are going to abandon a position of absolute rigour and inflexibility against corruption. Because beyond the contempt of the current political system, we think that it mainly affects a caste system, a system of privileges for some elites, to the detriment of the rights of the popular classes. And in that case we also ask for the full weight of the law against the corrupt, but not only against the corrupt of Convergence, also against the corrupt of the People's Party, who are today on the street enjoying unimaginable conditions for someone who has committed crimes of such caliber. But if there is any doubt, because by means of the Judicial Power, when in an operation of this type comes the Civil Guard, we are dispelled any doubt. It is clear that there is a political intent, a political motivation behind that operation. And it is a political motivation against the independence process launched in Catalonia, we have no doubt. García Albiol introduced this initiative to change the Constitution of the Court, and to give him an initiative in giving the functions which he did not belong to the United States in the middle of the election campaign. The manner of doing things clearly expresses the intention, the intention. Considering what the election results have been, which Garcia Albiole and Populous Party have obtained, I hope they will withdraw this enterprise as soon as possible. They ought only to do what has happened to the people of Catalonia, who have answered them in the presence of their enterprise. It is of no use to use some instruments which democracy can give against the principles of democracy, and to use them against the state of right. And it is evident that this is happening in Catalonia: political opponents are to be excluded from political debates, and all instruments to which they are endeavoring to employ all intrigues. It was the latest operation yesterday that the day before yesterday was to change and increase the functions of the Constitutional Court. We believe that, with a clear and clear view, this is a manifest indication of the democratic constitution of the Spanish State. And this democratic degeneracy is becoming ever greater, it is more and more apparent to all the world that democratic degeneracy which is taking place in the Spanish State. In the face of the democratic degeneration of the Spanish State, only independence processes can be carried out. Independentist process in Catalonia and independentist process in Euskal Herria, in order to operate a democratic transformation, a real democratic transformation, a democratization of our society with its full meaning. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ray. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Mr. Pastor, a Basque Socialist representative, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u4	Thank you, President. It is public and notorious that socialists oppose the reform that the People's Party has introduced in the Constitutional Court Act to empower it to enforce its sentences. And we oppose each other head-on. And we do not do so because we do not want the constitutional sentences to be served loyally by the institutions concerned, but because the change introduced is a mistake and a horror. A mistake for the very approach to reform and a horror for the time being and for the procedure chosen. Starting at the end, it has been done on a horse's nail, at the last minute of the legislature and through a bill of the People's Group. It has not even been promoted by the Government through a bill, after a thorough legal study and once the opinion of the Council of State has been known, which would require any change in an institution of the importance of the Constitutional Court. But it hasn't been done that way. It was presented by the party that supports the government to process it to the race, invoking urgentities that anticipated decisions that could be taken by the institutions embarked on in Catalonia in the adventure of secession. And here comes the fundamental error of the approved reform. Because the consequence of this reform is to completely denaturalize the role of the Constitutional Court, which is or should be the supreme interpreter of the Constitution, not its ultimate guarantor, as is intended with the express change of its organic law last week. And the fundamental distinction, although it is no wonder that the People's Party escapes, is important. It has not in vain been characterized by the use of this court to try to settle in its favor any political matter that was not of its liking. Here we have its remedies against the amendment of the Civil Code, which sanctioned equal rights between heterosexual and homosexual persons; against the establishment of a statute of time limits for the voluntary termination of pregnancy; or against the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia adopted in 2006, which has resulted in so many and so many not exactly positive consequences. And it has done so to such an extent that the Constitutional Court itself has had to specify in some judgement that it is not its task to resolve political matters, but to settle whether a particular rule or a government action fits into the principles of the Constitution. Well, the People's Party does not comply with that, but has now wanted to give the court executive powers that do not at all marry its constitutional nature. Moreover, it does not conceal, much less, its political intent with this reform. It is not a question of correcting a factual situation, because it cannot be said that the Constitutional rulings are systematically not being complied with, it is not true, nor that the court itself lacks the instruments to enforce them. What is intended is to anticipate the new situations, as stated in the PP's own bill, which leads us to a preventive and ex-procedural reform to equip the court with instruments to respond to possible actions of the institutions of Catalonia that intend to act outside the law. To clarify positions, we Socialists are not opposed to improving the instruments already in the law of the Constitutional Court to give effect to judgments. Our objection focuses on the way in which this legal change is dealt with and on the content of some of these alleged improvements, which, I insist, is to distort the function of the court. And that is what happens when new article 92 of its organic law gives the court the power to agree on the replacement execution of its decisions, depending, without prior process, on authorities or public employees who fail to comply or by issuing the necessary measures to ensure that they are complied with. What is being done is to alter the nature of the Constitutional Court, making it arbiter and interpreter to the police of the Constitution. And that is not just what the Socialists are saying, it is being said by many very prominent legal experts. As an example I will read to you the conclusion of a distinguished jurist, former director of the Institute of Constitutional Studies, former president of the Constitutional Court and former president of the Council of State Francisco Rubio de Llorente, I suppose it sounds to you. Mr. Llorente said: "The constitutional correction of these rules is questionable, and it also doubts its effectiveness in curbing Catalan independence, but what is certain is its ability to put on the Constitutional Court a political burden that will eventually crush it." This is what he has said, along with others, Rubio Llorente. I don't think it would be necessary to say anything else. I should like to congratulate myself on the fact that Bildu, whose immediate political aspiration is to achieve, as Mr Arraiz has said here, a break with the State in which we live, is today both concerned about the proper functioning of one of the fundamental organs of the State, as is the Constitutional Court. That's good news. I know that this concern and the reason why it has brought this proposal to Parliament is not in the defence of the Constitutional Court precisely, it is purely instrumental. What moves Bildu, and thus expresses it in his proposal, and has expressed it in the rostrum, is not to defend the role of the Constitutional Court and the proper functioning of the democratic system, because we already know that this would be almost counterproductive for his political project, what worries him is that this denaturalization of the functions of the court becomes used to curb the unilateral steps towards secession that can be taken by the institutions of Catalonia. But I have to tell you that this process that you call democratic, democratic has very little, because it cannot be democratic what is done outside the law and disregarding the established procedures, even if it has a majority of parliamentarians. Socialists, however, do want the organs of the State to function properly, do we want a constitutional court with prestige, I suppose you too, focused on your task of interpreting what is appropriate and what is not in the Magna Charter, and of arbitrating conflicts between the powers of the State, because we understand that this improves and strengthens the democratic state we have. And I would like to remind the parliamentarians of the proposing group that you should be the first to be very interested in this, because, among other things, if you could stand for the elections that brought you to this House, it was thanks to the Constitutional Court, not to the Supreme Court. It was the Constitutional Court that by a majority of its judges legalized Sortu, annulling an order of the Supreme Court to the contrary. Therefore, my group is going to maintain the whole amendment that we have tabled and I think it reflects the essentials that we are discussing. That we reject the instrumentalization that the People's Party makes of an essential organ of the constitutional architecture, in haste and for a very concrete and specific purpose. And that we are totally against giving the Constitutional Court sanctioning powers that distort its role as the highest interpreter of the Constitution, which we obviously defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u5	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u6	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Egun where you're going. Mr. Lehendakari, good morning. Once again this Parliament, ladies and gentlemen, and it is not a lament, but rather a description of reality, becomes a third House. There is the Congress of Deputies, there is the Senate and there is also the Basque Parliament to discuss issues such as the one that is submitted to this House today, there is no action of control to the government, but today we come to talk about other things. It is surprising, it is true, as Mr Pastor said, that those who do not only believe in the Constitutional Court, and those who do not only believe in the social and legal state in which Spain is located, show no concern for the ways in which the court works or the powers of the State function in relation to the Constitution, not only concern, but what you want is to charge it. And I understand that, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid or Bidasoa through Irun, any chance is good. But we see ourselves once again in the obligation in this House to insist on the obvious, to claim the obvious, to protect the obvious, in the end to try to make the obvious effective. And with your permission, Mr Arraiz, I will derive the debate again on the subject that was raised through the initiative, which is not to debate the independence of Euskal Herria or Catalonia... Well, let's discuss separation of powers and debate the good health of our rule of law, let's do it, there's no problem. But what we're talking about here is a reform of an organic law so that a court can enforce its decisions, we're not talking about anything else. We are not talking about the separation of powers, those are not the considerations. A reform has been made of the Constitutional Court's Organic Law to ensure that the rulings, so that the rulings of the Constitutional Court are effective. Something that seems reasonable in a rule of law, which, by the way, makes other states too, on which no one, at least in this House I have not heard, has projected a shadow of suspicion. It does so in Germany, which also has legal tools to enforce the decisions of its constitutional court, Austria does, to a large extent also in Italy. That is to say, they make it countries of our environment, that probably for EH Bildu are not democratic either, but they make it countries of our environment, of the West, that they equip themselves with tools so that the judicial resolutions, also those of the highest organs of constitutional interpretation, can make their resolutions effective. But in the end, the mother of the lamb, if I may say so, or the origin of this whole story is indeed what Mr Arraiz said. There is a question of the democratic rule of law that means Spain, which you question. They question so much that they dare to say in this rostrum that we are worse than we were 40 years ago. They seem certain nostalgia, Mr Arraiz, their manifestations, because EH Bildu says that we are worse than 40 years ago. Perhaps you are worse than 40 years ago, that is true, because the democratic rule of law that is Spain has been consolidated. It is a democratic and legal state that, with the Spanish Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy in Euskadi, articulates the coexistence of the Basques, which you rejected from the beginning and which others tried to overthrow on the basis of violence. And fortunately, the democratic rule of law has been defeated. What needs to be perfected and continuous evolution? No doubt, but it has overcome those who intended to carry it. And so, I understand that if any sense has that manifestation that we're worse than 40 years ago, or it's nostalgia, Mr. Arraiz, that everything can be, or it's merely a description of what your situation is. And as a matter of fact, too, because I think it is necessary to say. The legalization of Sortu, said in an untechnical way, through the ruling of the Constitutional Court, I do not believe that it was based on political interests, that there were them, around that judicial decision, no doubt. That judicial decision comes in the terms that occur because you did what you had to do and if you had to write the Hail Mary you would have written it in those statutes. They accepted the legal order, they accepted what Spain, what the democratic and legal state... went from the revolutionary epic to the acceptance of the norms, at least in writing. That's what you guys did. In any case, to focus the debate as well. What this reform seeks to achieve is that the Constitutional Court can implement, as previously stated, the power granted to it, for example, by article 117.3 of the Spanish Constitution to enforce the court, which the organic law before the reform did not provide for it. It is a question of the Constitutional Court, and of what we are talking about, guaranteeing something as much in a democratic state of law as that the effective judicial guardianship provided for in article 24.1 of the Spanish Constitution is also a reality for the decisions of the Constitutional Court. It is with this reform that the Constitutional Court can also give effect to article 164.1 of the Spanish Constitution in order for the resolutions to take effect. The aim is to strengthen and implement what was already provided for in the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court before the reform in its article 92 on the possibility of intervention by the Constitutional Court in the ruling of judgments, which did so in an indicative manner, which was a mere declaration of principles. Therefore, and I understand that this is the origin of the discrepancy, it is a matter of the rule of law providing the highest body, the Constitutional Court, with tools to obtain or guarantee the effective judicial protection of citizens and public authorities. I insist, tools that are also endowed with unsuspecting states, I suppose, you are not, because you are also suspects, like Germany, Austria, Italy, etc. Well, let us go into the details, very briefly, of what is the object of the tremendous reform. What does this reform say that wants to burden the division of powers, which aims to put the rule of law on the ground, what does the reform say? Let's go into detail, because one thing is political discourse and another thing is legal reality, what the written norm says and what not only interpretations, which are often no longer interpreted, I think there are inventions. He said that "for what is not expressly provided for in the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court on enforcement, the Law on Administrative Litigation Court will be applied alternately". Raise your hand the first one who sees where someone loads the separation of powers, please. "In particular, the Constitutional Court may grant the personal notification of its decisions to any public authority or employee deemed necessary. The Constitutional Court may seek the assistance of any of the administrations and public authorities to ensure the effectiveness of its decisions, which shall provide it on a preferential and urgent basis." Just like any other court does. "If it is noted that a decision issued in the exercise of its jurisdiction may be being breached, the Constitutional Court is provided with tools to resolve this anomaly." What are those tools? "To impose a coercive fine, from 3,000 to 30,000 euros, on the authorities, public employees or private individuals who fail to comply with the court's decisions." This has to worry anyone who wants to fail to comply with the Constitutional Court's rulings. "Agree the suspension in its duties for the time necessary to ensure the observance of the judgments of the court." As many other ordinary courts do, by the way. "And the replacement execution of the resolutions of the constitutional processes. That is, the court may also require the cooperation of the Government of the nation in order to take the necessary measures to ensure compliance with the resolutions in the terms set by the court." It does not seem that anyone here is burdening the separation of powers, nor the rule of law. Finally, Madam President, Mr Pastor made some references to people who have spoken against this reform. That is what freedom and the rule of law have, that there are some who seem good to them, others who seem bad to them and pronounce themselves. But it is that not only has the Professional Association of the Judiciary expressed itself in favour of this reform, not only has the Independent Judicial Forum manifested itself, but also important professors of constitutional law, that no one will project a shadow of suspicion on at least one of them, on political links not precisely with the People's Party, such as Francesc de Carreras or Jorge de Esteban, have also pronounced themselves in favour. I mean, here, as in botica, there are those who have suffered well, less well, regular or bad. But what is a reality and what seems surprising is that the Spanish Constitutional Court, the constitutional court in a rule of law, did not have the tools to enforce its decisions. It seems surprising, but that happened. And those who worry the most that this will stop happening, it is those who are willing not to comply with court sentences. And we are not talking about private citizens, which also; we are talking about public authorities, which are also representatives of the State, which must also be guarantors of compliance with the law, also of constitutional requirements, which are more furiously opposed to this reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court. And that should make us reflect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u7	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u8	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Lehendakari. We have stood against the reform of the Constitutional Court promoted and approved by the People's Party. We understand that the reform proposed by the People's Party is, in addition to being unnecessary, possibly unconstitutional. Unnecessary because there were already legal instruments in place to enforce the rulings of the Constitutional Court, an objective set by the People's Party to justify the reform carried out. And there were already plenty of legal instruments, because we have the help of all Thursdays and Spanish courts and because, in addition, the Criminal Code already contains the crimes of disobedience or sedition. And it is possibly unconstitutional given that, as set out in article 117.3 of the Constitution itself, "jurisdictional power rests exclusively with the courts and tribunals determined by law". The reform is therefore unnecessary and, as I say, certainly unconstitutional and is based on political and electoral motives. The PP intended, and Mr Semper once again raised it here today, was to try to deceive Spanish society, making it believe that there were no instruments to act against an institution in rebellion, for example the Generalitat of Catalonia. He pretended, wanted and wants to make believe that it was forceful, when what has really been promoted and approved is a shard and a legal nonsense. Let's look at the shapes and the background. With regard to forms, the reform of the People's Party is carried out not through a draft drawn up by the Government of Spain, but through a proposal for a law signed only by the party that supports it, which prevents it, and this is important, not only for a broader debate on the issue, but for the text to be submitted to the Council of State. The reform of the People's Party is dealt with through the urgent procedure, through direct single reading, thereby underestimating not only the work of our representatives, but even depreciating the Congress of Deputies itself and democracy itself. Any reform affecting an institution such as the Constitutional Court should be carried out through broad political agreement and after a rigorous technical debate, but the People's Party has unfortunately put forward its own party interests. On the merits, the reform of the People's Party is a threat to the Constitutional Court itself, placing it on a political burden that seriously harms it. The reform distorts and disrupts the entire constitutional system. The reform is also ineffective. It is true that there are rulings of the Constitutional Court that have not been complied with, but the executive is the one who must execute the rulings of the Constitutional Court, and the judges of the Constitutional Court cannot be expected to do so. We are told that the end is commendable: to ensure compliance with the decisions of the Constitutional Court. The problem is that the proposal is not adequate to achieve that objective. The Constitutional Court already had the power to impose coercive fines on those who disobeyed its rulings. The novelty of the reform is that, in addition to increasing the amount of fines, it provides for the possibility that, in an unfair procedure, the Constitutional Court suspends a rebel authority, a public office, from its functions. Some concepts that should be clear. The Constitutional Court has the function of legally defending the Constitution, while the head of State or the Government is responsible for the political or existential defence of the Constitution. Article 97 of the Constitution attributes to the Government the defence of the State. As Mr. Javier Tajadura recently wrote, the Government claims that its proposal to give the Constitutional Court the power to suspend a rebel authority in its functions fills a legal gap. But the gap exists only in the imagination of the Government, says Mr Tajadura. The Criminal Code already contains crimes of prevarication and disobedience and other more serious crimes such as sedition. Criminal judges could therefore act against those involved in such offences. On the other hand, the Government already has the power to act directly. Therefore, the proposal is a toast to the sun and an absolutely ineffective measure and a dip. The Government of Spain has intended to give an image of strength, but what it has actually carried out is a despatch of shameful and cowardly functions. The Government of Spain intends to transfer to the Constitutional Court a responsibility that is solely its own. This makes the court a political actor and also an ineffective political actor. Not only does it not solve the problem, but it makes it worse. What the PP wants to do, what it has intended to do is turn the Constitutional Court into a pseudo-penal body. And this is actually doing things badly. What is the alternative to the proposal of the People's Party that we have been defending in recent weeks and also in the Congress of Deputies itself? Firstly, of course, to professionalise and depoliticise justice in Spain. Both the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court and the General Council of the Judiciary are today colonized by political parties: by the People's Party, by the Socialist Party, by the Basque Nationalist Party and by CiU. What we proposed in the Congress debate and proposed is to maintain the reform of the Constitutional Court of the PP in the part concerning the clarification of the functions of the court to enforce its resolutions, but then extract all the sanctioning provisions from the text and create a reference to a new crime and a special procedure in the criminal jurisdiction, retaining all the characteristics of the criminal procedure, including guarantees for the defendant, and this, I insist, is very important, and allowing the removal of public office temporarily, but with due guarantees. It is technically much more appropriate, because a special offence of non-compliance with Constitutional Court decisions is created, with which the entire procedure is handled by the criminal court. It is quick, because through the reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary the jurisdiction is given to the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, which is not characterized by having a workload with regard to the investigation of proceedings. This is what you could have done. The reform of the Criminal Procedure Act could also have been proposed, in order to create a new personal protective measure, which is none of the three existing – summons, detention and provisional provision – so that the criminal judge of the Supreme Court on whom the procedure falls, the first thing he can do is suspend the public office from his duties while instituting proceedings for the offence of non-compliance with Constitutional Court decisions. This new figure, by the way, is what neither PP nor PSOE want to see in paint in our order, because when created in the Criminal Prosecution Act in general, it could also be used for any criminal proceedings, so it could apply to its defendants. It is the only technically correct way of suspending a public office, the rest of them are legal plugs that are of no interest to anyone. In any case, moreover, and in this case, that decision would be assessed in each situation by the criminal judge of the Supreme Court, it would not be automatic. In any case, in our amendment we have sought to go to the bottom of the issue and try to deal with a problem that exists in Spain, such as the breach of the current law and the claim of certain leaders to walk or levitate over the laws, obviating that the law must be equal for all and that without law there is no democracy. That is why the amendment we have tabled in its entirety reads as follows: "The Basque Parliament declares that without law there is no democracy, that the law must be equal for all and that we must all respect and comply with it, including the representatives of the State, the democratic institutions and the representatives of the citizens". It is something that too many do not understand: that without law there is no democracy and that the law must always be complied with, this, I say, too many do not understand. Too many nationalists do not understand it, and neither does EH Bildu. That is what Mr Arraz has shown in his speech, and that is what his political career has shown. This has been demonstrated by quoting Ibarretxe or Otegi and is demonstrated by him and his fellow travellers every day of the year, who do not really understand that without law there is no democracy and that the law must be enforced. On the other hand, it certainly draws attention to the fact that those who have failed to respect the most basic democratic principles intend to give us lessons in democracy. Mr Arraiz spoke of democratic degeneration, and there is no greater democratic degeneration than supporting or justifying the murders of fellow citizens, that is the greatest democratic degeneration that has occurred in Spain in recent decades. Therefore, we do not accept any kind of lesson from the representatives of EH Bildu. And it is regrettable and painful that whoever is responsible for the greatest corruption, that is, the persecution of those who think differently, is also trying to make a speech against corruption. Finally, I say, what the PP has proposed is a legal sham, and also an ineffective legal sham. Things have to be done right. And obviously in Spain there is a problem that the law too often fails. Laws can be changed, but they must be done well and not in the way the People's Party has done. That is why we maintain our amendment. And I must also say that we basically agree with the amendment tabled with the Socialist Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u9	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u10	Good morning, everyone. As the President said, the turn of those who have not made any correction. We have not made a correction, because we will defend this unlawful proposition. And I'd like to explain some arguments this time. In the first place, I believe that a subject with a purely political character and political character would be a method of solution from a process of restraint in the law, and a method of ill-doing. If a political question has been established in this legislation, it is clear that in the case of any one, if the Spanish Government thinks that both Generality, Government, or Parliament, does not conform to the Constitution, or to the other laws under that constitution, it is a way to exercise the article of the 155th Constitution. And that's why we have to go to the senate and the measures to be proposed. And you have to reason why a autonomy wants to be revoked or suspended. Then we find another way to hide political problem, or we try to hide it. But if there is a political problem, without the alteration or alteration of this organic law. And what do you think of the Popular Party? And again to change the law, but to make laws for the particular case, and for the particular persons, and also not to conceal it. Why did you mention some good aspects of the law, but the law itself... In the preamble, in the motivation of this organic law, of reform in turn of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, is that the PP is not hidden, goes face to face. But they say so expressly. They say: "While the current regulation of the Constitutional Court contains the general principles to ensure the effectiveness of its resolutions, the need to adapt to new situations that seek to avoid or circumvent such effectiveness obliges the development of the necessary instruments to ensure that the guarantee of effectiveness is real". I mean, a law for a specific case. In addition, they are located in space and also in time, because within the modifications... And I say time for the coming times, from an election appointment, a government that will remain in office until the next government is formed after the constitution of Congress, etc. I mean, in that vacuum interregnum, they say, "Something can happen, there can be some pronouncement from Catalonia." And they also look at this situation and say: "The Constitutional Court may impose coercive fines, agree to the suspension of public authorities or employees, or entrust the Government of the nation...", still in office, which may take place between December 20 and February 1, lest the Catalan Parliament do something that should not, yet in office, be entrusted to the Government for that replacement execution. I mean, they're in time and space. Political space, they do not want to address the substantive issue, which is political conflict; nor do they dare to bring the matter to the Senate with the proposal of measures, including suspension of autonomy, avoid debate, and through the back door what they do is to bring legality to their political thinking. And they're doing a worse thing, they're giving the Constitutional Court the ability to settle political conflicts. Because the People's Party, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, Democratic Convergence, Esquerra, CUP, the parties that are related to the so-called Catalan theme, all – we too, even at a distance – have a political problem there, a political conflict to resolve. And you avoid going to the Senate obviously, and use the shortcut of the Constitutional Court. They say your goal is to preserve your rights. We don't see it that way. And when there is a political problem, what democracy has to do is to open the roads, not to press them; And as behind this is the chief ruler of Catalonia and Catalonia, it is evident that Catalonia has begun its course, full of difficulties. It has been mentioned yesterday, and what will happen, why the trial will not stop at all efforts, and the Spanish Government will either strive or strive to co-operate with all the authorities at once. But there is a political problem, and political and political means are to be provided for political affairs. The article 155 is not used, because it knows what the Spanish Government supposes, and that increases a tremendous explosion, a political explosion, and another method is used. And what is done at last is brought into the self-thinking law. And what is done is to change the law to avoid a particular case, and to appeal directly to certain persons. And I think that's something beyond all foundation. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u11	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the answers, Mr. Erriz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u12	Good morning again. It's true that we care about the Constitutional Court. And we are very concerned, among other things, because we suffer because we suffer, because we suffer the wrongs which he can do. Catalonia suffers and the Basque People can also suffer, that's why we're worried about it. And besides, we really demand the rules of gambling according to the law-state, in order to solve our political affairs according to this. We want equal democratic rules of play for all, to be on an equal footing when it comes to solving a political problem like the one we have. And that is why we are extremely concerned about what the Spanish State is doing with its instruments, including the Constitutional Court, to use it against democracy itself, against democratic rights. It has been previously mentioned that the ability to invade the President of a autonomy community, gives a function to the Constitutional Court. Undoubtedly, this is for us the disguised application of the article 155, it is evident that this is the shortest way to do so. And Mr. Sémper, don't hesitate to doubt that if they had been the judges you had placed, the creations had written this or that in their state, it would have been the same thing, it would have been illegal to create them. The question is not what it is written, but what it is to decide or to determine, in this case, according to its political attitude. This is the state of the Spanish State, which is the nature of the Spanish State at present. And I don't think it has anything to do with how we can be as a political party. I can expect that statement, that interpellation of anyone but a representative of the People's Party of the Basque Country. I do not think they are enough to talk about the health of every political formation. And on the other hand, to say that this has nothing to do with Catalonia, with the political problem of Catalonia, when Garcia Albiole introduced him in the middle of the election campaign, it's enough to make a joke. He said "se acabó la jest," he said. And with this it clearly implied how political matters are solved in Spain, how the Spanish authorities attempt to solve political problems, those in Catalonia, and what we have here. We demand that we can act according to the rules of the law-state, that we may act according to the principles of democracy, and that political debate should be made in a state of conditions, and that the people should give a word and a decision. There is nothing more democratic than this: to decide what the citizens are going to decide and to respect what the citizens are going to decide. That's what we're asking for. It was the People's Party that said it wasn't going to send tanks to Catalonia. It will send judges, that is the political decision you have made, use the judiciary, use the judiciary to try not to solve a political problem, to try to crush a political problem. That is the way to do it, to understand politics on the part of the People's Party and the Spanish State. That's where we have to make a strong lesson, at least in Catalonia and the Basque Country. In the Spanish State there is no democratic law-general in order to make the discussions which our people require in democratic conditions, there is no law, no career. There is no democratic room for the debate that Euskal Herria is asking for, which the Basque people are asking for, or which the Catalan people are asking for in the Spanish State. There is no democratic path. There are threats and aggressions, but there is no democratic path to that debate. And that leads us to have to make our own decisions. And in this historical context in which we live there can be no other than the independence process, the independence process in Catalonia and in Euskal Herria. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ray. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u14	Thank you, President. Soon. I avail myself of this time of reply to reaffirm the announcement made by the Socialist Party to promote an appeal of unconstitutionality against this reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, so that it is the Constitutional Court itself that determines whether this express reform and the new powers given to it by the PP in article 92 are compatible with the interpretative and arbitral function assigned to it by the Constitution itself. Because, Mr. Semper, it's not worth analogy with the ordinary courts. The Constitutional Court is not an ordinary court. Moreover, it is not even a court to be used. This was designed, approved and collected in the Constitution with an interpreter and arbitrator of the Constitution, not with that of a common court; therefore, the same rules cannot be applied to it. And in addition, to enforce the execution of the sentences, as Mr. Maneiro has well reminded you, there are the ordinary courts, then yes, and there is the Executive itself. Therefore, here a strange justification is sought for the functions of the court, and as many jurists, members of the Constitutional Court itself, say, that is perverting the court itself. Moreover, it is a political responsibility that they do not have, which belongs to politics, because, whether we like it or not, the problem of the secession of Catalonia is addressed in this way from the application of the law and from politics, from politics with capitals, from intelligent politics, from politics that solves problems and does not create new ones. And a lot of that is one of the problems you're falling into. Turning to another issue that seems to me to be also relevant, within the electoral programme with which the Socialists will attend these general elections, we have an express commitment to reform all the collegiate bodies for what is called the political decolonization of State institutions. A proposal that implies an important burden of self-criticism that we too do, but it is clear that the institutions of the State have not given a very uplifting image on many occasions. And that is why we propose that the institutions of the State, which are responsible for political control, be as neutral as possible, neutral as possible, absolutely impossible. In other words, it ends by law with the political colonization of the Constitutional Court, the General Council of the Judiciary, the Supreme Court, the Bank of Spain, the Court of Accounts and so many other regulatory bodies, electing its members outside the present presentation of candidates that are now established by the different political parties. This is the reform that the Constitutional Court really needs, which strengthens it and restores it the prestige and presumption of neutrality that, unfortunately, it has lost in recent years. Not approved by the PP, because it is true what I reminded you and what Mr Maneiro reminded you of, is that you have skipped all the procedures. We are not talking about modifying an ordinary court, there is no legal report that supports it, it has not passed through the Council of State, it is not even a proposal from the Government, it is a proposal made in a haste and running, on a preventive basis, to try to make it appear that a very serious political problem exists in Catalonia and that it does not stop in this way. Believe me, Mr. Semper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u15	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u16	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. You will make me enter where I did not want to enter, but you have succeeded; of course, I have to enter in the end into other debates that are not the object of the non-law proposition. Starting with Mr Maneiro and also to a large extent in relation to Mr Pastor, when they talk about the procedure, etc. Approval through a single reading of a law of these characteristics is not the first time. The Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime has been amended, the Constitution itself has been amended through a single reading, the Rules of the Chamber itself have also been amended. But, of course, it depends here that when you do it one is very good, and when you do it another is very bad, right, Mr. Pastor. In any case, I too understand that Mr Maneiro's speech responds to a certain complex before the nationalists. Mr. Egibar and also Mr. Arraiz have powerfully drawn my attention also to continuing references to article 155 of the Spanish Constitution. Almost, almost at some point, I thought they were going to ask for their application. Mr Arraiz has been much more explicit, because he has said "well, you do not send tanks" – which I understand is what you put and would have liked, that tanks were sent, corresponds to your political tradition and to the defense of certain practices that are not precisely democratic – "and that you send judges". Of course, in a rule of law judges are going to solve legal problems; it is what happens in a democratic rule of law, that legal problems are solved by judges, not tanks; that political discrepancies are resolved in parliaments and politically, not bombs and pistols. Of course, that is what you understand, Mr Arraiz, it is costing you, but that is exactly what it is: no tanks, no bombs, no guns; politics and judges, compliance with the law, the decisions of the courts, and also those of the Constitutional Court, through the tools that are provided, as in this reform, for them to be complied with. It is also surprising that Mr Egibar's appeal to article 155 of his own Constitution, but which we are now understanding and the circle is closing, and you too are getting it, are dragging the Basque Nationalist Party to its positions, because you are not in vain going to vote in favour of this GNP; I think that is what you have announced, Mr Egibar, you are going to support Bildu's non-law proposal. We're closing the circle, we're already having more information. And it is not that it has been legislated, Mr Egibar, for something concrete, which in a certain way does. There's a new reality. Listen to me, because it is important for you to understand one thing: the rule of law stands up to those who want to carry it. Any rule of law is equipped with tools to respond to those who skip the law want to load it. This is important for you to keep in mind, because even if you do not care about the law and you believe that your will is above the law, even if you believe that your political determination is above the legal order, it is not true. Neither the Basque Nationalist Party, nor EH Bildu, nor anyone is above democracy, the rule of law and the rules, their mandatory compliance, of which we have endowed all citizens. It's important that you understand. But there is a new reality, which the legislator did not foresee when the Constitution was drafted, but in any case what he did not foresee is when the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court was drafted. That was not foreseen, that there would be political representatives at the highest institutional level who were willing to ignore the decisions of the Constitutional Court. That is indeed a new reality, it is an unprecedented reality in Europe. There is not a single institutional representative of any government that is willing to jump and load the rulings of the Constitutional Court. This in Germany would seem a barbarity, and they talk about politics. In Austria it would seem barbaric, and they talk about politics and have political forums to discuss and resolve differences. In France, in the United Kingdom, it would seem barbaric to them that a political representative would be willing, because he is worth it, not to comply with the decisions of nothing more and nothing less than the Constitutional Court. That hadn't happened. And the rule of law is equipped with tools to defend itself against that aberration. Because not to respond to that is the law of the jungle and is to burden the democratic and rule of law state. And do not direct the Constitutional Court, now here some spokesmen have appeared with concern that the Constitutional Court has to resolve what things, don't worry, don't address political issues, rule legal issues. It is the maximum interpreter of the Constitution, it is the guarantor and it has to ensure its execution and compliance with the law. And what he is doing is providing him with tools not to impose his will, but to impose the rule of law and law enforcement. If this seems easy to understand. And I finish, Madam President, as a farewell, if any, to Mr Arraiz. I did not mean the health of their political formation, which over these 40 years has changed names, has changed strategies, has mattified political discourse according to what they were interested in, no. I say that you are nostalgic of a time, because at that time, 40 years ago, you made a political decision, and in addition you said this, I have read it to you on some occasion: you did not comply with the Constitution and did not comply with the Statute of Autonomy. And they believed and said over the course of 40 years that this political position justified the use of violence, the use of terrorism, to achieve those political purposes, which is to reject the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy. Because ETA killed much more in democracy than in dictatorship. Because there were those who did not want to accept the rules of play of which the Basques, in this case the Basques, we equip ourselves to live together. Some feel worse, some feel worse, others feel worse, but the only ones who justified that these laws, in this case the Statute of Autonomy, could be overthrown by bombs and shots, which politically and socially justified the existence of terrorism were you. And fortunately, what I wanted to tell you before and there I appealed to your nostalgia, is that you haven't made it, you haven't made it fortunately. And to others, it's up to us to equip ourselves with tools to perfect the system, to improve it. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u17	Mr. Maneiro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u18	Thank you, President. Indeed, Mr Semper, how have we come to the present situation? How have we come to this situation where there are political representatives and presidents of autonomous communities who are willing to break the law with impunity? Who is ultimately responsible for this situation? It is obviously not the UPyD complexes, which it does not have, but it is indeed the political trajectory and the complexes of the Spanish People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. That is why there are political leaders who today are willing to skip the Constitutional Court's ruling. This is the reality, and that is why there are certain sentences that are not fulfilled. And the People's Party and Mr Semper are saying the following: in the face of the claim of some to skip the law or the rulings of the Constitutional Court something will have to be done. Indeed, but it is the Government that is most responsible for enforcing the law and rulings of the Constitutional Court. However, it intends to delegate this responsibility to the Constitutional Court. So what the People's Party basically wants is to wash its hands, because I say, there are already instruments, there were already legal instruments to enforce the law and the ruling of the Constitutional Court. However, the Government of Spain prefers to act as if it is doing something, in order to continue to do nothing. That's the big difference. Therefore, it is a mixture of cowardice and legal clumsiness and this has been said by jurists and professors of prestige who have explained it perfectly, and of course also UPyD, and I think we are not suspicious in relation to these issues. Therefore, if we question this reform, if we criticize it, it is because we believe that we have strong legal arguments to criticize it. Therefore, it is a dip both in the shapes and in the bottom. In the forms we have already said: without debate, without report of the Council of State, with the presence of the candidate for the Generalitat of Catalonia in the Congress of Deputies presenting the reform itself, where has this been seen? This is how the People's Party has acted in this case. Therefore, a cod in relation to the shapes, and a cod in relation to the bottom. And I think that in relation to the substance I have explained perfectly well in my first speech where the legal amendments should go, if they were necessary, if they were not, if they were to be perfected. And how have I explained that this is indeed a legal burden, because it places a political burden on the Constitutional Court, which harms the Constitutional Court itself and harms the Spanish State itself. I disagree with some of the things that have been said. The aim of the PP was not to be able to act against the Generalitat, it is not to be able to act against the Generalitat, it is not that, it already has instruments for this. It's just the opposite, it's doing like it was blunt, but at the same time washing your hands; that is, leaving functions. He could already act against the Generalitat, he already has instruments, he already had enough instruments. The PP did not intend any of this, what it intended was to do an election campaign act and give the feeling to certain people that it was indeed strong. And this is a very wrong way to act in democracy, because in the end it harms democracy itself and the institutions of the State itself. We are constantly told that there is a political problem in Catalonia. There are many political problems in Spain, but political problems are solved by talking, they are solved by promoting legal reforms, amending laws, debating, agreeing, that's how political problems are solved. But also obviously, and this is the first of democracy, the law must be respected, because without law there is no democracy. And this is what the Catalan nationalists are forgotten, and the Basque nationalists have also been forgotten at some point and not too many years ago. Therefore, strong criticism of the reform that is being proposed and defence of the existing legality as the basis of democracy itself. Last aim. The Pastor announces to us initiatives for the political decolonization of certain organs. Congratulations, because we have been defending all this since 2007, and I myself in this Parliament. Indeed, justice must be decolonized from political parties, justice must be professionalized, and the Constitutional Court must be professionalized, and the Supreme Court and the General Council of the Judiciary. How many times have I said it here, and how many times have I been attacked for raising all these measures! How many times have I said that we must depoliticize the regulatory bodies, the Banco de España, the Court of Auditors, the Courts of Auditors, etc., how many times have I proposed it! Well, now we are told that these measures are intended to be carried out. We will see, we will see if it is actually just an electoral pose, or part of the electoral campaign, or if we are actually willing to push for measures to regenerate democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u19	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u20	In two words, see if I can sum up what I mean, and keep a couple of minutes for the next round, for another session. I believe Sémper himself has confessed the political nature of this change of laws, the political impulse, and you do not deny that it is a law which has been observed to a particular person. In the ante-room, the law itself says, you have not even concealed it. The question of Catalonia is, then, a political problem. And political matters must be taken from the hands of conversation and from the hand of negotiation, if we can find a political solution. Why it is clear that a ruler, beginning from the prohibition of the consultation, begins to show that, beginning with the refusal of the questions of the people, he does not want to know what they think; that is, he does not want to know the truth. The ruler who denies and forbids a consultation does not want to know the truth. And Catalonia starts that way, after a statutory change, etc. The ruler who denies or forbids consultations does not want to know the truth. And the conflict is political and we have to give it a political solution, you know that. Because the democratic wills of the peoples can be delayed, they can be prevented temporarily, but in the end they will seek a way, I do not know whether it will be the democratic overflow or what, but we cannot permanently deny that democratic and majority expression, in this case of the Catalan people. And you are making twisted use of a tool to modify, reform the Constitutional Court to judge specific cases and individuals. And that here and in Sevastopol is to reform the legality at the service of a political thought, which is that of the People's Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u21	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 45; counters, 27; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u22	As a result, the original EH Shade text has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The other proposition of the Socialists as a group of Parliaments, concerning the re-formation of the system in order to verify the knowledge of the eucalyptus in an official manner. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Celaá, who is the representative of the Basque Socialists, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u23	Egun where you're going. Ladies and gentlemen. To begin with, I must confess to you that for a moment and after the presentation of this non-legislative proposal, which only called for a review of an EGA test in this case, we thought with amazement that the political storm had been unleashed; as I say to you, exclusively by asking for a review of an accreditation exam. This caused me great concern, thinking that, in a democratic country with a democratic linguistic policy, there could be untouchable essences. Fortunately, it is not so, fortunately today we come to this plenary with a majority, but a total support, of this proposal not of law, that I hasten to thank that support to all your ladies and gentlemen. And it is that the linguistic policy of our country, ladies and gentlemen, has a solid basis, a basis that has allowed us to develop an important line of euskera progress over time. Beyond the logics and inevitable specific differences that have existed and will exist, the political forces of this country have been able to agree on a strong core of linguistic agreement, on three fundamental pillars: the Statute of Autonomy itself, the Law on Normalization of the Use of the Euskera and, in the decisive and fundamental educational field, the Law of the Basque Public School. Without that common consensus basis, it could not be explained the enormous progress that the knowledge and use of Basque has experienced over the past 40 years, nor, therefore, the rapid extension of bilingualism, mainly among young people, on a question such as linguistics where advances and setbacks are usually given at relatively slow paces. This has made our experience internationally recognized and well valued, and has become a subject of study and interest for many countries that may find themselves in a situation to some extent similar to ours. Of course, the Basque Socialists are very pleased that they have actively contributed to this country's vertebration project. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been in all linguistic consensuses. However, the existence of this consensual linguistic basis does not eliminate from a pen the problems that require our constant attention with the intention of solving them as far as possible. This is the case of the few results of the EGA language accreditation tests, which have been repeated almost invariably over time without us having so far been correct in explaining their causes and, therefore, without having been able to establish adequate solutions. Since Euscalidian has produced the title D to an acres of knowledge of Euscaia, there has not been one of the evangelical system's evaluations for the knowledge of the Euscadia. After D-J's title, the Board of Education put an EG in its way. Well, there's been changes in the system, of course, like what happened in the '90s. Up till then he had tested two tests: 'tis written and verbal. But seeing that there were more and more people to be found in the study, a third trial came in, called a court test, which was to make an entrechase among those who presented its principal object. There is no system that can properly function through the course, and without examining or examining it, much less in our case, in the system of evading the knowledge of the Euscha. We're doing a lot of work to normalize the cassa's use, a lot of people and a lot of people learn to sing. We want them to learn and use it, we need new Basques. And the socioggistic panoma has changed its roots for the last 35 years. But despite the remarkable progress that this determined policy has produced in the knowledge and use of Basque in all social spheres, there has been a negative development in the results obtained in the tests to obtain such accreditations. The average number of approved in all of them – EGA, HABE, IVAP – does not reach one third of the people presented and at some specific levels remains at 10%. There will be people, and perhaps political groups, who do not see a problem in which year after year the results of the EGA review round twenty-one by the way, some justifications in this regard have been heard recently. But the Basque Socialists are firmly in favour of the progress of the Basque language and the extension of its social use, which is, ladies and gentlemen, the great black spot of the linguistic policy that we have applied. My group has no effort to lower the EGA requirement if it is to measure the ability of a translator or a Basque teacher. But it turns out that the EGA is the main sham to be able to access any job in the Basque administrations. And then we do believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is necessary to question whether it is the most appropriate measure to calibrate the linguistic knowledge required for the performance of the functions to be performed. Because the average number of approved in the last six years is 23.33 %, with a minimum of 21.48 and a maximum of 26.49. In other words, only one in five people who take the EGA exams succeeds in approving it. For this reason, we see a problem and believe that these results are not acceptable, given that certificates of language proficiency are fundamental instruments for officially accrediting the degree of proficiency of a language for recognition, both in the private sector and in the public sector. But in the case of Euskadi the relevance of this certificate is qualitative and quantitatively superior, since the development of the policy of normalization of the use of Basque has led to the extension of the system of linguistic profiling as a requirement to most of the jobs of the public administrations and agencies dependent on them. Therefore, a serious and in-depth evaluation of EGA testing should be conducted. The corrective measures resulting from this assessment should also be established as soon as possible. It is the object of this non-law proposal which, ladies and gentlemen, I am presenting to you today for approval. The proposal we make seeks to detect dysfunction in our system of obtaining language accreditation and to produce an improvement. It is true that, in the short and medium term, the need to pass a language test to gain access to a place with a linguistic profile will be less imperative and that the personal and labor significance of the EGA and other linguistic accreditations will gradually decrease. They are aware of the fact that the Basque Government, the government of Patxi López, passed the decree of exemption from the need for linguistic accreditation for those who had carried out their official studies in Basque. That was a revolutionary step in the process of normalizing the language. No language-standardized country requires its citizens to pass a language test to gain access to the various jobs. The country rightly assumes that the general qualification required for each post already includes the language skills necessary for its performance. It does so, in any case, with foreign persons who have not been enrolled in their education system. To the account of the exposition of another proposition by law, we have read, amongst that set of articles which have been published several weeks ago, the following: "Have you ever been asked to be king of the early auditions in Spain on Spanish radios for years? What about Larry King to be one of the CNN stars in English? Ibon Sarastola has no claim of euscan, and many other eucharists have no title. They are extreme examples, but it is necessary that we should make up our minds on the way to normalization to see them again." This is where the quotation ends. I don't know whether the article will recognize the content of the process of example, but it is precisely this thought that is essentially its own. It is true that the situation of Basque does not reach such a level of normalization, but it is no less true that the situation is not that of 40 years ago, at which time it seemed reasonable to propose the passing of a language test to gain access to job profiles. The extension of education in Basque, the linguistic and didactic preparation of teachers, the generalization and improvement of the quality of curricular materials make the situation not even by far comparable to that of then and other parallel paths can be opened, which do not always and in any case require the obligatory conduct of the linguistic tests. Between 0 and 100 there are always intermediate situations. On the basis of this, we approved the exemption decree which I mentioned earlier and which basically exempts students from the need to certify the B-1 to the student who successfully runs in Basque more than half of the curriculum of basic and compulsory education. Similarly, we exempt from B-2 those who obtain the Bachelor's degree and C-1, equivalent to EGA, in the case of university degrees. Of course it is a decision taken with all caution, because the vast majority of students who obtain the secondary degree under the required conditions will have a level higher or much higher than level B-1, but without any risk it can be ensured that without the need for an additional language test they all exceed that level. As I said to you, ladies and gentlemen, and I am finishing, this decree will progressively limit the number of people who have to submit to the EGA exam and other language certifications. But the problem continues, there are still thousands of aspiring candidates who present themselves to EGA tests with disappointing results in most cases. The problem continues and needs to be addressed and addressed. Therefore, members of the legislature, it must be necessary to make a deep evaluation of this kind of language, and to make the correct measures which will arise from it as quickly as possible. Therefore I urge you to vote for the opposite proposal. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Passing over the divisions of justice, Mr. Isasi, the representative of the EH Collector, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u25	Madam President of the Parliament, Mr. President, members of the legislature, good morning. I knew you were a woman of great influence, Mrs. Celá, trying to talk about it before you talked about it. Terrible. I agree with several of the things Mrs. Celaá said, and she mentioned at the end of her speech that in normalised states there is no need for a certificate of language. And that's exactly what happens to us, that we have no normalization. In most experts, the EGA is supposed to be equivalent, right, and effective, to the degree of language which is required, and which does not very well distinguish it. We think so too. The problem is not EGA, as Mrs. Claá has approved it in part. It's not the test results, Mrs. Claá. It's a different problem. In the first place he wrote about another law proposal: "The certificate of the principle of language is essential work tools, which are to be officially ascertained the level of knowledge of a language, and to take it into consideration in the public sector. In the case of the Euscadi, the importance of such certificates is more substantially and quantitatively, because, in consequence of the political development of the eucalyptic use, the system of language has been extended to the greater number of jobs in public administrations and institutions which depend on them." Even if you say so, in the case of our neighboring pursuits, and you mention, Mrs. Cela, that the certificate of language is of no importance to that. To whom are the essential work engine documents language skills? Where? In what language? In the Spanish case, as you have mentioned, it is not necessary to acquire the work of language in the Spanish kingdom, in the public sector, and still less in the private sector. It's enough to be advanced academic. Take a look at his article, 543/200 Kings Decrea, 18th May. This article determines the necessity of the young man's acquaintance in those who do not possess the Spanish nationality. That is to say, to the Spaniards, the language of youth is of no avail, what serves is to be Spanish. As you know, the Constitution of the kingdom imposes the necessity of knowing Spanish, in its article three, at the first point. The Basque is not mentioned in the eyes of the Constitution, nor is it mentioned in the Constitution, where the name is denied, nor is it mentioned. It is no wonder, then, that those who wish to gain the Spanish nationality should be the only language to know. The Spaniards of the community, who are expressly speaking, have a sufficient degree of language of youth, but not of equivalence, or of any other language. What is the use of the language's competence? It's no use for the Spanish, because they don't need it. What would happen if all the workers in the public administration of the kingdom were to require a certificate of the language of youth of C1? How many would pass the test? How many would have obtained in this legislature the grade of Spanish C1, Mrs. Celaa? How many of you would have gotten a C1 grade of youth? I am inclined to believe that there are more in this Chamber than those who possess the EGA than those who have a title equal to that of youth. The training here is better than the finest of the eucalyptics, at least with the title. And we're all snowed-up people. Let's get to the point. The consequence of another legal proposal follows: "In any case, apart from this deliberate policy, the knowledge and use of the support in all the social areas..." And he mentions, Ms. Celaá, the proportion of the defeated is 23.31, minimum of 21,48th and max. 26%.49. That is to say, only one of the five persons who are presented for the EGA examination succeeds in cancelling the examination. Probably, Mrs. Celaá, the Basque Union is one of the most novel languages in Europe. One of the eucalyptus which we now know, as you know, 1968. He started off in the year, he's not 50 yet. Euskara's motto, which has also been mentioned by you, was founded in the year 1982 as the heir of Euscalidia's D's title. The EGA came to fulfill certain requirements of the normalization process of language. The EGA put down a kind of verbal pattern as well as the standardization of the cradle. This certificate is, in some measure, a indicator of the unity of eucasure, which characterizes the spoken, or the educated eucalyptus school, an indispensable reference to the teaching of the adult, an instructive pattern for general instruction, and a starting-point for the university teaching. We found the only possible answer to explain what the EG is: model to check your raised level of knowledge for reduced languages. In 33 years since the EG has started, more than 40,000 plates have been made, and more than 100,000 talking people have acquired the certificate. 25% of what has generally been introduced has been tested during those years, except for the first three years, 82, 83 and 84, it has never reached a percentage of the past to be a third. It's true, the case isn't new. What's the meaning of this matter with the rate of the defeated now? If we've studied the results of the free callings in official language schools, for instance, as long as 1998-2007 years, it's only about 6,531, who's speaking, that's 17%. The results are still inferior, obviously. Why, then, accuse them that they have now only five EGAs? Mrs. Celaa, do you really think that the rate of overcoming the titles of Cambridge University, over 60%, is useful in this discussion as reference? Do you really think that the rates of the defeated private organization in business with the instruction of English can be referred to the case of eucay? This is an endless discussion. We should be a symmetry between languages. Judicistic Asymmetry, as long as it is necessary to know of Spanish, to know how to support it, because it is arbitrary of one's own. Asymmetry socioggious, youngmany everywhere, everywhere, as long as it can be used for anything, is limited by the use of the euphora. The lyrical Asymmetry, while his eucalyptic speeches in this house return to the ears of the troops, the Basques have not done so much merit as they are to listen to the example of youth. Asymmetry in the courts, if we want to act consistently because we have to ask for an translator. To make the Basques live and expand in order to obtain an abnormalization of language, we must reduce the symmetry. The Euscal village is supposed to be held up by the eucharization of the eucalyptus fields: in the Basque regions the euscan language must be the default language, we must watch and extend the breathing of language, we must strengthen the UEMA, the talk of the eussa requires attractive media, the public TV private and USETB1ciparies, radios, magazines, and social networks, for example, we must protect and extend the only newspaper that publishes on the i.e.,.,.,............................................................................................................................................................................................................... Our language system, as you have mentioned, must enable in the necessary course of the school that all young boys and girls acquire sufficient levels of language for the cradle. That's why we have to go through language models. In order for college students to make eucarating, we need a high-degree offer of sufficient quality. Public institutions, private, associations, and corporations must strictly preserve the duties of the speaker to the community of the eucalyptus. Public administration requires that the rights of language admitted are respected. That's what we've been trying to get through our corrections. The results of our examination are not the problem of normalization, that's not the problem, Mrs. Claá. Yet in politics, and even in language politics, the agreement is thought to have been stripped of its value, we have signed with the Jesuits a proposition which is useful to normalization. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u26	Thank you, Mr. Isas. The representative of the Basque Popular, Mr. Oyalta, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u27	In order not to enter into other debates, because listening to Mr Isasi the truth is that we do not understand very well almost why he has signed this transaction, and indeed, because he has gone, he has taken out other debates, the hills of Ubeda have gone a little bit. We are going to focus on what is strictly the issue. We will support that amendment which the main groups of the House have signed, because we understand that only with the figures provided in Mrs Celaá's non-legislative proposal, those figures of 75%, 80% failure in the EGA tests, do we also refer to accreditation tests in HABE, IVAP, etc. At certain levels we have been reminded of even reaching levels above 90% failure or less than 10% exceed those tests. Only with that data do I think we all have to agree on the need to reform the system for the official accreditation of the knowledge of the Basque. It is necessary, and not the first time we have raised it here, the need to review those tests, to analyze exactly what is happening, because it is not understandable that this level of failure is affecting even Basques, people who have developed their entire educational stage in model D, in Basque. And therefore, we do believe that it is urgent to know exactly what the causes are, if it is a problem of preparation of the seekers, if here there is a problem of adequacy of the tests, of the preparation received..., we need to know and know exactly what is happening. We therefore believe that it is a good thing that this orientation, the contents of the evidence be analysed and that this Parliament be presented once and for all with a thorough analysis and conclusions as to what these evidence should be from now on. In addition, improvements are made that are considered appropriate in relation to the evidence and also in relation to what needs to be the adequacy and language requirement. To adapt these language requirements in the public service, for example, to the functions to be performed by those officials. I believe that this is also a debate that must be opened in parallel with the analysis of those tests. And for our part nothing more. To say that we are going to support this compromise amendment, which we have not signed, but we believe that it pursues the objectives we share. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u28	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u29	Thank you, President. The Socialist Group in its original initiative proposed two things to us. On the one hand, this Parliament urges the Government to set up a study group composed of experts from different fields to analyse the current orientation and content of evidence of official accreditation of knowledge of the Basque language, especially of the EGA. On the other hand, it proposes that the study group propose any changes it considers appropriate, in the light of experience with other languages, in order to adapt the tests to the present needs of Basque society and to promote the extension of the use of Basque. With regard to the Socialist Group's justification, it points out that there has been a growing negative development in the results obtained in the tests in order to obtain language accreditations, which, as has been said, is not entirely true, since in previous years the results were even worse. It also points out in its justification that the average number of approved in the vast majority of such evidence does not reach one third of the citizens who have been presented, and at some specific levels it remains at 10%. He noted that in the case of the EGA only one in five persons who submitted the EGA exams were able to approve it. He points out that this level of failure is not understandable and that this reality causes frustration and suffering. Compare the results of these tests with the results of other tests in other languages, and I believe that, as has also been said, it is not comparable. The linguistic and socio-linguistic reality of each place must be taken into account, and it is clear that the socio-linguistic reality of Euskadi is peculiar, unique and very different from the linguistic society and the linguistic reality of other places. It proposes or says or proposes that this Parliament should not close its eyes to this reality. And he concludes by pointing out that it is urgent to clarify whether this level of failure is due to causes ascribed to the candidates or to the preparation they have received, or whether it reveals, rather, a serious problem of the suitability of the tests themselves. I add that it may be due to other factors, as I said before, such as the linguistic reality existing in Euskadi. The issue is certainly very interesting and there are various issues that I want to put on the table: how we favour the extension of the use of euskera; the poor results obtained in the tests to evaluate accreditations; the excessive language requirements in the various administrations and agencies dependent on them; the low language levels of students who have studied in model D; or the frustration of thousands of people as a result of language pressure. And all these are issues that, in my opinion, are very interesting. The idea that arises from the socialist proposal is this: since the results of the accreditation tests are very bad, let us analyse these results and the reasons behind these results. This seems to me, in principle, good, but we take a risk. We run the risk that what is intended to be raised is that, given that the results of the accreditation tests are very low or very poor, we lower the level of demand for these tests so that they are more approved. And to us this reflection seems very simplistic. I prefer that we answer other questions, or at least that we can ask them. I do not, therefore, intend to answer all these questions in this case, but at least to ask them for the reflection of all of you and of a servant. Are the language skills required to work in the public administration reasonable? Is it reasonable that so many public service jobs require language skills and so many language skills or such demanding language skills? Is it reasonable for those who complete all their studies in model D to acquire linguistic knowledge on many rare occasions? How do we support the extension of the social use of Basque, in what way? Is it reasonable to seek to promote the extension of the use of Basque via impoverishment of the Basque language? What's the real level of euskera on the street? Is it not that the results of language examinations show that the raw reality of certain facts, that is, that the level spoken in many cases is clearly improveable? That is, it also happens that people who suspend the EGA, suspend the EGA because they do not have the level enough to approve it. What do we do to ensure that the use of euskera is extended and improved at the same time, and that more and more people are talking about it and more and more people are talking about it better? And also, what do we do about the abuses committed and the abuses that continue to be committed for the sake of sacrosanct linguistic normalization? My maternal grandparents hardly knew Spanish, they only knew Basque practically and they developed almost always in that language, they spoke much better in Basque than in Spanish. My maternal grandparents decided that it was not appropriate to teach Basque to their children, because at that time, apart from the fact that there were certain limitations, we obviously lived in a dictatorship, also because they took the view that Basque in certain sections of the population was poorly seen, but this is a reality. On the other hand, I am an euskaldunberri, I have studied in euskaltegi, I have studied in barnetegi for many years and I am an euskaldunberri who tries to speak in the best possible way in euskera, but which in fact does not yet reach the level enough to approve the EGA. On the other hand, around me I have lived with people who have suffered from linguistic impositions and who, as a result of that treatment, have evidently filed their corresponding complaints. On the other hand, I'm a person who always talks to his little daughter in Basque. I am a person who at one point decided to submit to the EGA and, indeed, I suspended, and I also suspended not because the examination would be wrong or wrong done, but because it did not actually have enough level to do so. I draw you a picture of my personal situation and what experiences I have had in relation to the Basque. And considering all this, I believe at least two things; I may be wrong, but I believe above all two things. I believe that the poor results of the various language accreditations show a reality: that the people who suspend do not have enough language knowledge to pass those tests, and I also sincerely believe that the level of Basque spoken on the street is clearly improveable. Obviously it is very good that more and more people are talking about it, but I also think it is interesting that it is important to make sure that the euskera spoken on the street is of increasing quality. And while I believe this, I also believe that excessive language skills are required to gain access to the various jobs of the Administration. Certainly, they are two different things. One thing is the level of euskera that is valued in the various tests, also in the EGA, and another that euskera is required in all public service jobs or that a certain level of euskera is required. And certainly, in view of all this, the amendment we have tabled. What do we propose in our amendment? To urge the Basque Government and all Basque institutions to demand language skills in Basque, and only the language skills in Basque really necessary, only in those jobs where such language skills are strictly necessary to carry out the job required correctly, so that discrimination and abuse for linguistic reasons cannot continue to occur in the way that has been taking place in Basque for years under the unacceptable excuse of so-called linguistic normalization. This is a matter which the rest of the groups did not want to touch, but which I believe should also be touched on in a matter like this. In any case, there is a transactional one, and that transactional one certainly seems quite reasonable to me, which I propose seems quite reasonable to me. Let us look at the tests, let us look at how the tests are done, let us look at the tests of accreditation, let us look at how people learn Basque, the level of Basque they are talking about, and that these conclusions can be presented in Parliament and then make the right decisions. This, therefore, seems reasonable to me, and that is why we will vote in favour of the compromise. However, I say, there is an issue that remains, or that you have decided to keep out of the debate, and it is the linguistic abuses and discriminations that still exist in Basque. By the way, the important thing is that anyone who wants to talk about it can talk about it and talk about it in the best possible way, that is, that it can be expressed in the best possible way, in the most correct way possible, and not so much accreditation. And obviously, as I was saying, that the abuses and linguistic discrimination should be brought to an end as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u30	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. My dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, Congressman. I'd like to explain, first, that we've signed the middle-way of the three parties, that we'll protect the medium and not the original social proposition, that is, the medium. I was just trying to figure that out. The congressmen explained before me what we're dealing with. The group of socialists proposes to re-form the knowledge of Euchara in official form, and Mrs. Celaá, in her own precedents, mentions bad results of the EGA. And first of all, we want to make a plea for the EGA today with your permission from our group. For, as I have often said, more than 30 years ago, when it was all to be done, the people who were in charge of that time invented a number of things they did with a lot of them. The EGA came from that title of the Euscalidian D, and has remained up to this day as an instrument to prove the capacity for euphora, because it was nothing else. Who should have told them that at that time they were to see homologized in the European frame. So our respect, admiration, and confession to what is to be done, did that because the work was up to this day, and that it had helped the Basque in a little more. Good for them. Into the heart of the coming ones. We must make it clear that the aim of our minds is not to be taken by all talking eupscals to possess the EGA. The goal is to have the option to use language in normalized mode and use it. For it is plain, that it is not enough to acquire the EGA for the use of it in sound and natural ways, for two things are different. one is either to have a title of EGA, or to have another certificate, and another to act in a regular manner. That we want to have better results for the EG? Yes, of course, we would like to have better results, but not only in every test, but only in the EGA. There's a little bit of a story about it. We all know that before an examination or trial of the EGA, a court proof is made to pass through the galbah, and that after the galbah has passed, more than half the evidence of EGA. And the result is not so bad, knowing it's like the title of Advance or English, that is, the title of experts. However, as I have already observed, our party has to make an effort to improve these results. And after 30 years of birth, it's normal to think about it and take a few turns. And that's what the government is doing. But the government doesn't mean that way because you've brought this other proposal here. We speak of two references in our correction: On the other hand, the Euskarian Age and the plan of promoting ESEP to the Basque Sea. And in these two accepted documents of the Chamber the initiative is explained: The plan was to examine the system of checking the capacity of support. And I'll read to you what the strategic book says: "To improve the system and standards of the studies, to apply and apply the consequences." And ESEPn, in the plan of promoting the euphorium, says: "To test your brain's ability to think about the study system and to focus on improvements in practice." So the government is fulfilling its own duties. So, on the 2nd of October last, you'd see in the papers, the stand-overs for the peacekeeping and equivalent, which already exists, the committee has been for a long time, a meeting. And in this meeting the representatives of the organs of the Administration, which give any title to the Election, were examined, as well as, in order to improve the whole check-system, as well as in the case of the President of the Council. Here, among other matters, we have to consider: The adaptation of the frame of European languages to our social reality has been mentioned here, whether the communication be greater or not, in the evaluation of communication, they are more in written results; how the constant eupulative of the proofs can be introduced, and what value can be given. And as I mention the Basque Offices, HABE has a different design on the steps of A1 and A2 of the next year: The new basic curriculum predicts that it is evaluated during the learning process. And this will necessarily have a clear reflection on the results of the conquered. There could be a lot of factors for the results to be bad, and I'm going to mention some. We all know that our boys and girls, as soon as they're 17, have a habit of getting their degree out of EGA when they're finished at high school or when they're out of high cycles to have one less thing. As they pull out the license for driving at the age of 18, EGA has become a habit, and that's a very close place in the Basque Country. At home they say, "prepare, dig out your titles, it'll do for you to-day or tomorrow, and get it out in case." "And that factor may have its effect. Then Mrs. Celaá mentioned the proclamation, the exception of which was to learn the caucus. And that's where you said in the results that the Batxilerian or top-level cycles match 2B levels and that's what that means to the young people who ask for language. And there can be other factors. When you're 17 years old, you go to test EGA or go to do other tests, and you'll see what they plan on you, your ignorance, your experience, your experience, and that reduces your ability. That could be a lot of factors. But what I'm saying is that the government is working to improve the results of every certificate. And as we say in the middle, we want the results of this examination to be brought to the legislature, and that's what we're asking the government for. Because everything can be improved, but seriously. Not the way the sheep get upset, not the way they run everywhere. Take it easy, study it, and make it a way to improve it. That's why it was decided on the 2nd of October I've just mentioned to form a technical crew. And on that technical team, besides the representatives of departments, there will be people who are expert on the ability to verify the language. And it's going to be the main part of this technical crew to improve the entire check system. These systems are adapted to the European language frame of language from 2008, but it is necessary that the advice given by this frame of Europe should be adapted to our social reality. In fact, the frame of Europe is intended for foreign languages with normal socialised social conditions, and it is not foreign to the eucalyptic. It's best to adapt to the reality of the Euskarian, because we all know that the same situation is not the same with the eucaia. We may conclude, but this also, that the principal object of the people is to learn and use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Passing on the day of the answers, the representative of the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Celaá, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u33	First of all, to Mr Isasi to say that if we actually had a country in which between Castilian and Basque did not have a diglosic situation, etc., and if we talked equally and knew each other equally and read the same, we would not be talking about this. But just remind him of a couple of data. In the year 85 when the study of Siadeco is made, 5% of the Basque teacher was bilingual, it was Basque; today it is more than 97% Basque teacher in non-university education. And of the students only were Basquedunes those who came from a Basquedun family, 22% and I am optimistic; however, today we can say, and this is the sociolinguistic survey of the year 11, so we are better than in the year 11, 46.8% of people between 16 and 24 are bilingual. All this has been done by the system, especially the school. And the school is working hard with Basque as a preferred language. I just have to remind you that model A entries are just 3 and peak percent. But it's also that even if we put it all in model D, and to that it's evolving, it turns out that model D student, who has done all the high school in model D, also suspends the EGA. Therefore, although we have not known and do not know, I do not know why Mrs Mendizabal says any of the things she has said, although we do not know the profiles of people because we have not studied it, we do know that many students of model D present themselves to EGA and suspend it. And indeed, Mr. Maneiro, here are several things and there are several things also that you have read a little above. Because we're not just talking about the level of the exam, and we're not talking about reducing the level of the exam, we're talking about guiding the level of the exam, that is, if we want a practical result to boost the use it seems, which is a little bit our task at this time and our weakness, we'll have to guide it that way. But if we want the EGA to be only for translators and for Basque teachers, it could be, then the EGA, which has a clearly philological orientation, could be. But of course, the EGA is not suited to the functions that it may or is required to perform in some of the positions that are profiled with EGA. But if you look, in the second paragraph you also say that it will not only have to be adapted to the socio-linguistic reality, but to the functions to be performed. Therefore, this has not escaped the text. It's in the text and that's important. Therefore, we are not simply talking about a reduction. We're talking about a lot of other things. I thank Mr Oyarzabal for his support for this proposal. And it's not really a matter of the EGA alone, how it's going to be. But the EGA, as much as you say, Mrs Mendizabal, has precisely been the articulator of all your start-up, the catalyst for the start-up of the government. I would probably have it in mind, I don't say no, but certainly if we saw everything we could read from the moment this proposal was put forward, precisely the government's response, "but what it has to do with it," they said. There may be people who speak perfectly and develop their life in Basque and yet do not approve in EGA. And many other things. But the problem is that the EGA is the test that people play with to have a job in the administration and dependent autonomous agencies, or not to have it, or to keep it or not to keep it. This is the difference. Because you can tell me that the C1 gets similar results. But I'm not worried, because I'm not worried about the C1 either in Basque or in English or similar, because the C1 is not the exam people are using to access a job in our Administration. And that is precisely the question. That's why we brought him here. And we are also glad that, despite all your work, Mrs Mendizabal, a little humility, man, that nothing happens either, say that you are working forever and so... Listen to you, for the answer you gave us at first, it didn't seem like it. But it doesn't matter, if the important thing is to move forward together, if moving forward in isolated groups isn't worth getting the final result. To achieve the final result we need the strength of everyone and it is interesting that this has been a catalyst, one more. It doesn't matter, the important thing is the result, the one we're going to see in four months. And I hope it will be for the good of all and in order to achieve, in effect, more and more a language-standardized country, i.e., more bilingual English. That's what we want.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u35	Mrs. President of the Parliament, thank you. I'm surprised, it's good to admit it in one voice, and I think we're doing it and all of us... At least I'm glad. I'm not glad I found out today that Gorka Maneiro's congressman's grandparents didn't say... Its existence and its essence were simply eucalyptus. I don't know, but it seems very serious to me that the name and being of his successor should not be left to him. To appreciate what's going on. Not just those years, because I think something similar happens today, because ansymmetry exists. In any case, I'd insist that we're being identified, in a partial way, with the problems of normalization of action. And we agree that, thanks to the half-way which we will accept in this Chamber, it will be rejected, and that the mention of Mrs. Purane Mountain has been made, because it was planned on the schedule.... , if this helps, activates the discussion. However, I still think the deep discussion is on the table. A lot of prejudices are falling down. In what manner this ardent defence of the Spaniards is frequently performed here, and the loss of the eroscal character is always relaxed. If it's better to live without euphora, we think a few... Not without youth, I don't think we'll let anybody out of language or anything we know. But in order to get normal and balance, we still have to do a great job. I'm also glad Mr. Oyal said he'd protect her. But when I read his corrections, I had a malicious laugh that I should be able to adjust to the students who are to study them-that is to say, to adapt them to their abilities-I don't know-you might perhaps, Mr Oyalte, when you came next year, be able to arrange the examination to your abilities, and perhaps you could have tried it that way. Bad laugh, because maybe it's writing. I understand that this is not the idea which Mr. Oygener means-that is to say, according to the context. But when I read it in his literary state, I laughed. And it's not wrong to laugh sometimes in such matters. In conclusion, the efforts which have been thanked, even in the language politics of language were added to agree. And invite all of you seriously, in language politics, I think we ought to make changes because we must be bolder. The way of plurality is irresistible, that is not questionable. The question is, in the future, how we make him live for the rest. The rest of languages, including English, will come, but it is not in their case. We get multiplicity from the protection of our language, or it won't be, that's the point. So we vote for the middle one. He will be grateful to all of them for his efforts and support.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u36	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Mr. Oyhale.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u37	Yes, Madam President, simply to say that we are actually withdrawing our amendment by a flaw in the wording. What we wanted to say was what I said in my speech: to bring those tests effectively into line with the level of demand and the demand that they are actually going to have, the functions that officials will have to perform in their work. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u38	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Mr. Maneiro, are you going to take your word? No. My dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u39	Eskerrik asko berriz era. Would you put your hand on the fire if we proposed to run a Castilian test on a student from some center in Euskadi? Mr. Maneiro, your grandfather felt that the euskera was not taught, between notes and such a thing he said, that it was not necessary to teach the euskera, and he freely decided that. I mean, the context in which he lived more or less we all know what it was. The Basque society goes ahead, most people think that the normal thing is that you need to know the two official languages to gain access to certain posts in the Administration, and that is what the polls say. And Mr. Maneiro, the level of euskera on the street is certainly better, and so I see it too sometimes, and mine and yours, but also that of Spanish and perhaps even more. Mrs. Celaá, don't you want to teach me lessons of humility please, because to give lessons of something you have to be first, and there I leave it. However, you have managed to be the protagonist, once again, on this issue. They have dedicated entire pages to him in the written media, and minutes in the audiovisuals. In these pages you have also been criticized for being an Education Advisor the results of the EGA were worse than the results of the previous ones in your office, or the results of the subsequent ones. And since you're an Education Advisor and having all the springs in your hand for it, you didn't make any decision about it. But, well, it's human to realize many times to past bull. And each group here has the right and the legitimacy to submit any proposal, it would be missing more. It is not true that the EGA is required to access any post in the Administration, the job relationship of an Administration clearly specifies which language profiles, what percentage in each Administration according to the level of Basque speakers there is in that... It doesn't take the EGA to get into the administration. Don't vouch for it. Our goal must be to learn more and use more and more euskera. Our work must therefore be to think about creating the right conditions for such use and learning to be extended, to carry out a work of awareness and adherence in favour of the language, a task of prestige of the language: And who better than politicians to prestige the language? I would therefore like to ask all the groups a question: do you think that with the debate we had this morning, and with similar debates on this subject on previous occasions, we have contributed to something in favour of Basque? Let each person in conscience respond to himself. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. End of discussion, we'll vote for the middle-term correction signed by Euskal Socialists, EH Collectors and Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u41	Thus, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal as a team of the Misto-UPyD legislatures was made about to be removed from the Chief Director of the Union's subway by the complication in which Pinsolo was discovered in the project. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u42	Gracias, president. These are the men before the trial of Pinsolu, and whom we have accused in the last few months: dark and evil management, the attraction of public money, irregularity, favouriteism, clergyism, friendship. Vijes con las emcombas ad judcatarias, Tarafico de Influencias, concursurencias, privileged information. We've reported all this in the past few months, and we've brought it to Parliament many times. All this also revealed the commission of inquiry that was launched in the City of Leioa and that it concluded that there were serious political responsibilities in the people of Mr Arruebarrera, the mayor, who at a certain time is re-located by the Basque Nationalist Party in Metro Bilbao, and Jon Loizaga, former sports councillor. All these things were evidenced by the investigation carried out at the Leioa City Hall. There are certainly parliamentary precedents as well, various initiatives presented by UPyD, questions, interpellations, appearances, some of which could never be put into practice, and some non-legislative proposition. The last non-legislative proposal we have discussed on this issue dates back to 11 June. In that initiative proposed by UPyD we basically asked for two things: the dismissal of Mr Arruebarrena as managing director of Metro Bilbao, as a result of the political responsibilities he had on the Pinosolo issue; and, on the other hand, the reprobation of the adviser, for her performance and her actions and her answers given on this issue in this House, in this Parliament and in the respective committees. The truth is that as a result of that initiative, the Basque Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group signed a compromise, in order to avoid the favorable vote of what the rest of the groups called for. What did the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party sign to prevent this initiative from moving forward? What they came to say was basically this: we are not going to vote in favour of this initiative, we are going to take this matter to the Ethics Committee, to see what the Ethics Committee says. And what does the Ethics Committee say? The Ethics Committee says, in a reply recently received, that it is not competent to analyse the situation of Mr Eneko Arruebarrena and therefore has nothing to say. And this is a monumental political fraud, the political fraud committed by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, who decide to take this matter to the Ethics Commission even though they knew perfectly well that the Ethics Commission was not competent. The Jeltist Party and Social Socialists signed a correction to carry the affair of the House of Mine to the Ethic Committee, although they knew that the committee was not competent to examine the state of the Arrears. This, too, is a political fraud, it seems to us shameful. Having heard this, we decided to bring the matter to Parliament again. What has been made manifest and what has evidently not been prescribed today and therefore remains as a backbone to explain the request that we make again today, which is the dismissal of Eneko Arruebarrena as managing director of Metro Bilbao? The mismanagement, the waste of public money, the political responsibilities pointed out by the Commission of Inquiry of the City of Leioa, the relocation of Mr Arruebarrena to Metro Bilbao to escape his political responsibilities in Leioa, his refusal also to collaborate with the Commission of Inquiry, his refusal to respond to the parliamentary groups of the commission of this Parliament, where by the way some groups of this House prevented other relevant people from going to tell what they knew, in particular, Jon Loizaga, former sports councillor, Luis Ángel Gómez Alonso, Diego Garteiz or the president of the Basque Competition Authority. We therefore called for attendance, but some groups prevented such attendances from developing. For this reason, and in view of the reply of the Ethics Committee, we again call for the dismissal of Eneko Arruebarrena and the proposal we put forward there. Therefore, to be clear, it is not that we intend to bring a matter already under discussion, but that we bring a matter after the opinion of the Ethics Committee has been known, because on the last time this matter was discussed the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi decided to take it to that committee. Well, we already have an answer: the Ethics Committee has said that it is not competent. Therefore, in this case we have not included the reprobation of Councilwoman Oregi, as we argued on that other occasion, but we have focused only on the dismissal of Mr Eneko Arruebarrena. There are political responsibilities, mismanagement, waste of public money, refusal to cooperate with the investigative commission of the Leioa City Council, refusal to cooperate in parliamentary work during their appearance in the parliamentary commission. All of this makes us bring this up again. I suppose the Basque Nationalist Party, and especially the Basque Socialist Party, will no longer have any inconvenience in voting in favour of their dismissal. It cannot be that certain political representatives, especially if they have the Basque Nationalist Party's notebook, are forgiven everything. They cannot be reassigned to certain posts in order to escape their political responsibilities. This is clientelism, this is friendliness, this is plugging. Nor can it be that the councilwoman permanently refused to explain all this; it cannot be that Mr Eneko Arruebarrena himself laughed at all of us when he appeared in the committee. Since we already have the committee's opinion, which says what we already know I would say, we obviously resubmit this proposal, and to that end I call for the vote of the other groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u43	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing to the turn of the leadership, Mr. López de Munin is the representative of the EH Collect team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u44	Egun where you're going. We've talked a lot about the Pinosolo case. We have also discussed all the crimes that were charged to the mayor, but we want to repeat that neither Arruebarrena nor Loizaga have emerged from this judicial process, much less. More than in spite of the PNV, what has happened, and it has to be made clear, is that three of the four offences for which they were charged have been prescribed according to the judge. The crime that you have not prescribed for now, everything will depend on the will of the judge for it to happen, is that of prevarication, perhaps a minor crime for the PNV, for those parties that may have in their hands today that something may happen or that will eventually happen nothing in this House in relation to the Pinosolo case. It is the custom of preaching that has not yet been prescribed, and we hope that we do not allow the will of the sentence to be described, because the corroboration is too cheap and so many political parties are drawn to it, too cheap. Corruption comes out very cheap to many political parties, too. And an obvious problem in public management is that there is no responsibility on the part of managers for what they have done over time that they have been most responsible for institutional management. Thus, you can ruin a state, sell strategic public enterprises by favoring your friends, privatize cash, take money in envelopes or take it through payments from entrepreneurs who finance political parties in Madrid or Bilbao. It looks elsewhere if banks forgive loans to certain political parties, and absolutely nothing happens; rather, to those who do, absolutely nothing happens. And in the face of this reality, the opposite, the hardening of the Penal Code to punish social protest. That is the reality in which we live: politicians making laws to protect their cortijos or baserris, while punishing those who protest to this mafia. The integer correction we are describing today has a double purpose: On the one hand, those who have done the miserable management of the public, and have contributed to the interests of certain companies, should be incapacitated to manage public enterprises. I repeat, on the one hand, we claim that no person who has committed at least one harmful management of the public and who has favored the interests of the companies can be selected to manage another public enterprise, even if his job was only to square the timetables of the trains with a Swiss punctuality, which is what concerns Oregi. On the other hand, we have introduced another point which maintains what we already defended last June in the last debate we had on this subject, in which it seems that none of the groups already maintains their original position. In that plenary, after the elections, we were privileged witnesses of how the interests of political parties were once again placed above the interests of the citizenry. Thus, we saw how the representative of the PSE changed the position that another of his spokespersons had held in committee and signed with the Basque Nationalist Party the agreement requiring no responsibility from the Government to remove Arruebarrena. Nor was Councilwoman Oregi, whom we recall, reproached in committee for defending Arruebarrena, and not only, but she did not give any information at that appearance and limited herself to talking about the current performance of the ex-mayor in Metro Bilbao. By the way, the councilwoman never knew how to give any information as to why Arruebarrena was a good candidate for the management of Metro Bilbao, since she had no experience in that sector, at least until the day when he was elected to his finger by the Basque Nationalist Party. In view of the adviser's attitude, the PSE spokesman himself announced that his actions would have consequences. The ordago lasted the duration of the election campaign. Post-election agreements and the distribution of municipalities and posts in the various institutions relaxed this demand until it disappeared. As I am persistent, I again give you the opportunity to reproach the counselor for her attitude towards the Pinosolo case. Without forgetting that we could blame it for a multitude of causes, such as the parliamentary mandate it has never respected in relation to the Vitoria Mountains. So let us complete the initial initiative that is being presented here, and that the proposer, if he is consistent and I hope he is, I am sure that he has no problem today with voting on our amendment, as it improves his own, even regains the essence of last June's debate. In turn, the PSE has a new opportunity to compensate on this issue and return to its initial position, including the PP, by keeping the speech it has been holding up to today, can vote for our initiative. This would allow the PNV to remain alone for this time in the defence of those of its affiliates who have used the rotating doors to relocate, after committing acts such as pre-agreement recruitment, travel with public money, pressure and threats to workers, etc. I'm sure the EAJ will defend all crimes filed today. But I'd like to remind them that there were three out of four and for one reason the crimes were prescribed-that is, it was too late to judge them. This does not mean, that there were no such crimes as were supposed to have been, and that those who committed those crimes had no name at all. It is in our hands whether there are responsibilities in politics or not, and whether those who do so pay for it. Or at least they don't live off the public because they're from one party or another. You, as always, can decide which side you're on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u45	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Zurrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good noon to all. Again, when I call obstinacy, I mean to keep a mistake firm and severe, it brings back to this Chamber a subject which has been discussed four months ago, a proposition which this Chamber has thrown back. We might have thought that it was brought back to us that there had been significant innovations since then, and that they justified re-designing the initiative. And yes, it is true that there are new and significant facts since then, but facts that from our point of view what they ratify is the origin of the rejection that was given to his initiative in this House on 11 June, rather than to reconsider. Firstly, and in chronological order, we have the 8/2015 agreement of 8 July of the Committee on Public Ethics, which before the consultation put forward by this House resolves that neither subjective nor temporary requirements must the committee rule on this matter. And on the other hand we have the decree of the Provincial Prosecutor's Office of Bizkaia dated 23 September 2015, qualified last Friday by Mr. Maneiro as a veritable waste, which, as the spokesman of the Government said, surprises us, and listening to him at the first point of this plenary also surprises us, is scrupulous for some resolutions and some bodies and in others he qualifies those resolutions as a veritable waste. That is, only when he is interested and favored, justice is the supreme organ, and when it is not, protected in its strangulation, which so often seems to want to repudiate it and then clings to it and allows it to say all kinds of barbarities. As I said, this decree of prosecutor's office agrees to file the investigative proceedings that in its day began as a result of the complaint filed on 1 December 2014 by the People's Party of Bizkaia. And the matter has not been closed by statute of limitations, Mr López de Muniain, it seems that you too act in your ear, like Mr Maneiro, as some means of communication and also some political party, as we have seen, have wanted to project in a biased and biased way. That is, there are two ways: to act in an ear, you can forgive, because the opposite would be to lie and act in bad faith, which in a politician we understand is not to receive. The subject is cancelled, for there is no possible association of possible crimes, the Popular party said that events should be grafted on, not even in the case of omens. The investigation carried out by the provincial prosecutor's office, with the National Police as the judicial police, has not been the Ertzaintza which has functioned as the judicial police, it has not been closed at the root after simple checks, since it has been extended for more than eight months, with multiple tests of all kinds being carried out. And literally says the prosecution: "Because of the outcome of the proceedings," eight months of proceedings, "there is not enough evidence to continue the investigation or file a complaint, so the file of the investigation proceedings is agreed." If it had been archived by prescription, this would have taken place at the start of the investigation, not after eight months of prolific and intensive investigations. Since now I will not have time, probably in the second round I will focus a little more on the prosecutor's decree. So, having said that, Mr Maneiro's two main arguments for continuing to insist on this issue are the same as he maintained in the plenary on 11 June, as reflected in the justification for his GNP. First, the decision of the Basque Competition Authority, which you call the Competition Court, of 21 May 2013; and the opinion of the so-called Commission of Inquiry developed by you at the Leioa City Council. With regard to the former, he said that there was a ruling by the Competition Court, which punished the Consistory. And he repeats this despite the fact that we said it clearly in the plenary on 11 June: this resolution sanctions two companies, but not the Leioa City Hall, nor any of the autonomous bodies dependent on the City Hall, whose maximum responsibility and representative in their case would be the mayor. We told him, but, as the lehendakari says, he doesn't seem to listen, because we told him clearly, he has the resolution and he makes a mistake. We are asking him at this moment so that in his second speaking shift he will read us literally where he says that the Consistory is being sanctioned. In file 5/2012, on pages 55 and 56, where this file is resolved, please tell us which of the 11 paragraphs of this resolution penalizes the Leioa City Council or any autonomous body dependent on it. Please read it to us. As you often say in that grandiose terminology, it is absolutely unacceptable that you base your justification on a subject as serious as this on something that is totally false. Again, Mr. Maniro, we ask you for strictness and responsibility. And with regard to the other argument, which also seems to be based on the People's Party and Bildu, the only one that really remains for them, are the conclusions of a research paper; paper, Mr Maneiro, not a commission of inquiry, since it could not be legally and had to be invented until that name; carried out at the Leioa City Council and which, as we told you in the plenary on 11 June, meets all the criteria contrary to what the concept of justice should be: legality, independence and impartiality. With regard to independence and impartiality, we are faced with political conclusions, partial, interested and partisan, drawn up by political groups with political interests, which I cannot deny. This is legitimate, but provided that they are developed with minimum legal and procedural guarantees. And here it doesn't occur on this assumption. And not because we say it. They have already told us that they have read the conclusions. What is not known or read is the three reports of legality issued by career officials of that municipality, in particular by the secretary of the Commission of Internal Regime, by the municipal secretary and by the secretary of the research paper, which shows the most dubious legality of that paper in terms of its constitution, composition, functioning and powers. We therefore have two important elements: political conclusions, partial, interested and partisan of a paper of dubious legality; and a decree of the Provincial Prosecutor's Office of Bizkaia, guided by the principles of legality and impartiality, in order to guarantee the public interest. We know that, because you reiterated it, especially UPyD and Bildu in the plenary on 11 June and in the appearances that took place in the Committee on the Environment and Territorial Policy, you said clearly, the facts are proven, the perpetrators are pointed out and all this goes beyond what justice says. With this approach it is more than clear what its position is. Our parliamentary group and our party are clear that every means must be put in place to put an end to political corruption and that decisive action must be taken against the corrupt. But we must also respect the presumption of innocence for all people, not only for those who are interested in us, and establish all the procedural guarantees necessary to avoid taking unjust, illegal, irreparable and disproportionate measures against an innocent person. And in this line was the initiative that was adopted at the General Councils of Bizkaia, a socialist initiative, with the support of the Nationalist and Popular junta groups. And by consistency with this, with what our group has maintained from the beginning to the present, we are once again putting our amendment in the same direction: that we proceed to remove the public offices to which they are given an order for the opening of an oral trial for corruption-related offences, which is when a judicial, impartial and independent body understands that there are criminal signs of crime. And all this in the interest of seeking a balance between the presumption of innocence and the strengthening of transparency in the fight against corruption. EH Bilduko bozeramaileak esandakoari dagoenez, if I have time now I will explain the prescription of those three of the four offences that they have prescribed, and if it will not be in the second round, but so that you have the opportunity to replicate and not tell me that I use it in the last round, I believe that those who at this point are going to join, before they have spoken clear also, and Mr Maneiro blamed that bench for talking about political corruption. So, what we came to say, and we told you in the plenary on 11 June, is that in the face of political corruption, which is very serious and that of course, as we have said, we must fight and attack, there is another worse corruption, which is human or moral corruption, and of that, as we said, and I will not affect it, because we all know, you have quite a backpack. Since I have time, I will focus on the report of the prosecutor's decree. In the initial work, as a first screen, the prosecution dismisses in the light of the investigation the crime of prevarication, dismisses, does not say that it is prescribed, the crime of prevarication and the crime of misappropriation of public funds. With regard to cohecho, it is not even taken into consideration at the outset, because of the manifest lack of attendance. With regard to the offences of disclosure of privileged information and diversion of public revenues for public use, the same applies to privileged information the rejection of a plan, since it would require the participation of public officials, which shows that it has not been accredited in any way. Moreover, the course of time would have prescribed it, but it already says no. With regard to the second, because of the famous trips to examine sports facilities, it is not even possible to evaluate their attendance as being prescribed, which is considered to be prescribed. So, it is clear that in the face of conclusions from an investigation paper, as I said, a partisan, who makes some very serious accusations, here are the typologies where they can be framed, there have been investigations for more than eight months by the prosecutor's office and I believe that the decree of the prosecutor's office is clear and forceful and has to close this issue once and for all. Besterik ez, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u47	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing to a group that hasn't announced any correction, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Again, it is true, we are again debating here today an initiative on the case of Pinosolo. Our group has not tabled any amendments, because we were absolutely in agreement with the initiative put forward, which is true that it was voted on in the previous plenary, but which was finally not adopted, because what came forward was a compromise amendment between the Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party to bring Mr Arruebarrena's appointment to the Ethics Committee so that it could deliver an opinion. Two points I would like to make in this regard. And the first has already been said here, it seems to us to be an absolutely fallacious move that is being promoted and approved to refer the matter to the Ethics Committee for an opinion, knowing that, since it is not a government post and it has happened before, it will not have to be pronounced. But I don't say it here, it's that if you read the previous debate, Mr. Zorrilla himself in that debate already said it, that they were commanding it even though it wasn't a high office of the government. With which we all knew what was going to happen, it was a full-fledged distraction maneuver. And this is the second issue I want to address. As I said in that plenary, without having python skills, that I would already like to have them, but without having them, I said then what was going to happen, I said then what was going to be the opinion of that Ethics Committee. And we, from this group, maintain the request that Mr Arruebarrena not take the lead in the management of the public company Metro Bilbao, for the same reasons that we put forward in that plenary and that they have nothing to do with the possible criminal responsibilities that Mr Arruebarrena could have incurred. And you knew perfectly well what your arguments were going to be in this plenary, Mr. Zorrilla. I knew you were going to soften the prosecutor's decree, as Mr Erkoreka did the other day. And in this regard I also want to highlight several issues, and I do not listen because I have it here, this is the decree. And the resolutions must be read well and read in full, Mr Zorrilla. And in that resolution it is true that the commission of possible criminal types is valued, and I have it here and I can read it after, of which a few, and you have said it, one is on the last page, says that you cannot enter, because they are prescribed. He saved the bell, Mr. Arruebarrena saved the bell. If one reads the decree, moreover, it gives for proven facts to which it does not give criminal relevance, it is true, but which are being analyzed by other judicial bodies and which show irregularities. For example, it declares the coincidence of plenary sessions proven, because it reflects the judgment of competition. And he admits that there has been a flow of strategic information in companies and that this affects the central project. It also considers it proven that there have been joint trips of political leaders of the Leioa City Council with representatives of the firm finally awarded the tender prior to that award. And it's more, and one of them, San Diego's, is the one who says he can't get in just by prescription, but he doesn't explain that trip. And the existence of a recording of an official, which shows that the contracts were granted by political affinity, in addition to opening a piece separated by threats. Then the resolution is not to breastfeed, Mr Zorrilla, precisely because I tell you, you saved the bell, Mr Arruebarrarena saved the bell. And because it makes clear irregularities in the management of this matter, it makes clear that there has been friendship and nepotism. And I said that it was those irregularities, the disastrous management that motivated the request that Mr Arruebarrena not remain in office, regardless of whether or not those criminal responsibilities existed, because there were political responsibilities. That's what motivated that research paper, that even though there are resolutions that say it wasn't well constituted, nor its members..., came to a number of conclusions. And a final opinion that was endorsed by the absolute majority of the municipal plenary after many inquiries too, which did not meet in a single day, Mr Zorrilla. And the truth is that the conclusions did not leave any doubt, but rather the opposite. They concluded that there had been many irregularities, some of which also appeared in the prosecutor's decree. They proved that there had been decisions, at best, wrong, and that the political and economic management that had been carried out in this matter by Mr Arruebarrena and by the government team had been demeaning after demeaning. As I said at the time, a failed sportsman, a ghost sportsman, who before laying the first stone already cost almost two million euros to all of Leioa's neighbors. To this must also be joined what was also part of that complex, the pools of Torresolo, which also had an important overprice. Then, almost four million euros, three and a half million past, which all neighbours have to pay for bad economic management. And with this background of brilliant economic management, the first question we asked ourselves is whether Mr Arruebarrena offered guarantees to manage economically and adequately an entity that manages a budget such as Metro Bilbao, beyond the fact that it has managed to improve the punctuality and the increase in passenger numbers, which seems to be the only merit it has. And then again, when it comes to seeing his ability, we need to reflect on what Mr Arruebarrena's attitude as a political leader has been. An arrogant attitude, which has shown no institutional respect, not giving face, refusing to appear in the research paper of its own municipality. And when he appeared in this House he came forced by the situation and also gave no explanation. Throughout this process there have been very serious and very serious issues, many, as I said, contained in that decree that have not been able to be judged, because, as I say, the legal figure of the statute of limitations has been imposed. Officials threatened by political leaders who continued in office with the acquiescence of Mr Arruebarrena. This Government, the Basque Government, has defended excellence, efficiency, impartiality, transparency, objectivity and exemplaryness as values that must be consistent with the management of any public official. All this is reflected in today's Code of Ethics and we share it. But look, when you are appointed to a position, you would normally have to see what are the results of your previous management. And neither excellence, nor efficiency, nor impartiality, nor transparency, nor objectivity, nor exemplaryness are precisely attributes of Mr Arruebarrena's management at the head of the City Hall. Their attitude and actions have been totally contrary to these values which the Government has embraced and contained in the Code of Ethics, which is applied in the manner that is appropriate for this Government and when it is appropriate for this Government. As I said then and I would like to reiterate now, the management of this case is absolutely contrary to the principle and purpose of what is the spirit and the letter of the Code of Ethics. I said here, and today it is more meaningful than ever, that the Code of Ethics for this government is pure political propaganda and posture, it is nothing but wet paper. And ethical and behavioral standards should not be propaganda, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, should be a maximum in the efficient performance of political management. Moreover, a need to strengthen the confidence of citizens in their institutions. And the objective data show that, regardless of the decree of soft prosecution here by you, Mr Arruebarrena carried out an absolutely inadequate management, being benevolent, at the head of the City Council of Leioa. Inadequate and unethical. And that's why our group maintains the same thing that we said here in the previous plenary: it's that inappropriate and unethical management that invalidates it to follow Metro Bilbao's lead.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u49	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u50	Thank you, President. Here we are faced with one of those trips of permanent return, from Parliament to the Court, and when this does not give us the reason, return to Parliament. So the Socialists are going to have little fun on this road that we don't know exactly where you want to go. We have a clear position, we chair a committee of inquiry at the Leioa City Council which came to some conclusions, although Mr Zorrilla does not like them, very clear: there were irregularities in the management of the granting of licences and public contracts for the construction of polysports. It's written like that and has our vote. Then the PP preferred to go on his own to the prosecution, skipping consensus with the other groups, but in the end, that's his responsibility. And the prosecution considers prescribed, yes, Mr. Zorrilla, considers prescribed the applicable criminal rates, according to that party complaint. And what I don't understand is that the PNV receives that subscription with joy and joy, because there was mismanagement and if there is no criminal responsibility, and I'm going to literally read you the last paragraph of that court ruling, it's by prescription. It says: "With these data alone, lacking any explanation, the facts could lead to a deviation of public revenues to private uses, which allow the imputation of article 433 of the Criminal Code, since in this criminal type they fit the expenses with lack of justification of the public purpose, those in which there is a disproportion between expenditure and public service or involve a manifest abuse of public funds. However, the date of the facts and the penalty of fine and suspension provided for this offence, at the date of the facts, not that in force at this time after the reform of the organic law of March this year, prevents its investigation by statute of limitations". Then it's by prescription so it hasn't been further investigated. And so, I think you should at least be concerned that the sentence didn't even want to get into the bottom of the case. In this context, the need for the law on transparency in the public sector, which is about to come to this Parliament, to introduce all the precautions in the management of public resources and to establish a much clearer and stronger sanctioning system than that contained in the draft law, is once again highlighted. Because, in fact, that criminal liability cannot be established, either by statute of limitations or by the extent of the irregularities detected, it cannot leave without effective reproach the mismanagement of a money that belongs to all citizens. We maintain, then and now also, that Mr. Arruebarrena was a bad mayor. And about his management on the subway, where he repositioned the PNV a little before the election, the truth is that we have no opinion, because the counselor only tells us that the trains arrive punctually. Having said that, it is the responsibility of this Government, of the Basque Government, to decide in the hands of whom it puts the companies and public societies that depend on this executive. And what we are once again demanding is that the new legislation, which has already been late in coming, must establish the management criteria of this Basque public sector and sanction actions that are far from the public interest. And that debate is already coming to this Parliament, and it is the place where we have to resolve once again the case of the misuse of resources that we all deserve to be reproached and corrected. That is why we are not going to support any of the proposals put forward. Nor does it seek to provoke an unrated situation, when it is now in our hands, in that of parliamentarians, to establish all the preventions that we consider appropriate. Nor that which merely seeks to make good declarations which must still be demonstrated by facts. If anyone wants to blow up cross-party feuds, let them do it. We are going to focus from now on what is happening and what has happened cannot happen again, and that is what we have in our hands to do in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u51	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing on the answers, Mist, Mr. Maneiro, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u52	Thank you, President. Indeed, what the Councilwoman's reprobation is, we did not want to include it in this initiative, because it is a matter that was already debated at the time, leaving the Socialist Group behind and helping the Basque Nationalist Party not to go ahead with that initiative. And on this issue, let us say that there has been no further development, and that is why we did not want to include this issue in the initiative. We remember, therefore, perfectly that initiative, and how the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party reached an absolutely shameful and shameful agreement, by which they decided to take this matter to the Ethics Committee, knowing perfectly well that the Ethics Committee is not competent. Mr. Zorrilla, what do you have to say about this matter? How do you feel that the Basque Nationalist Party intends to bring a matter to the Ethics Committee, when it knows perfectly well that it is not competent? What do you call this? He managed, indeed, to deceive the Socialist Party, as on so many other occasions, but the rest of the groups did not manage to deceive them. And since we already have the effective response of that Ethics Committee, therefore, and since the reasons for calling for Arruebarrena's dismissal remain, we have decided to bring this matter back to this House. With regard to the prosecutor's writing, we obviously have our own opinion. It seems to us, as I said last week, a veritable misconception. It seems to us that the prosecutor's writing seems more like a defense plea than an attempt to start a process that seeks the truth. He ignores that Arcain, in his statements to the Competition Authority, up to four times claims that the famous plan or exchange of information received it from the City Hall. It does not argue the more than dubious prescription of crimes. That is, when the alleged criminal acts and the time elapsed for them to be prescribed have occurred. It's not grounded. Therefore, one thing is that we respect the prosecutor's decision, and another is that we are going to accept more of his arguments or his lack of arguments. We do not share the prosecutor's writing, and we do believe that further investigation is needed. But, in any case, apart from continuing to investigate this issue, there is no doubt that there are political responsibilities. And you again misrepresent the terms, you don't know how to distinguish political responsibilities from criminal responsibilities, you don't know how to distinguish this matter. Here we are talking about political responsibilities, and political responsibilities are maintained, and the rest of the groups have, by the way, told it. Bad management, privileged information, waste of public money, travel with public money, in short, political responsibilities perfectly pointed out in that research paper of the Leioa City Council, which pointed out serious irregularities and several. And of course, we have the relocation of this person to a public enterprise at the initiative of the Basque Nationalist Party; that is, a person who is responsible for irregularities, mismanagement, waste of public money, what he does is rewarded. The Basque Nationalist Party rewards this person for his irregularities committed and his mismanagement. This person who refused to appear before the investigation paper; this person who later, in the months, refused to give any explanation in the parliamentary committee of this Basque Parliament. What do you call this? Does this seem normal to you? You reward him, in a clear exercise of enchufism and amigoism. You replace the top of the best government by the government of your friends, relocating your people to certain public enterprises. And it turns out that, in view of these facts, we are not able to form a parliamentary majority here that denounces these facts and puts the Basque Nationalist Party in its place, because, as we have just seen, the Basque Socialist Party again saves the Basque Nationalist Party. Mr Pastor points out that all these facts are true, that there has been amigoism, that there has been clientelism, that there have been irregularities, that there has been bad management, that there has been privileged information, he says so, and then what he does is vote against this initiative.So there is no way, socialists, to deal with the excesses of the Basque Nationalist Party. They once again agree with them to save their faces. Certainly sad, their shames are covered again. In any case, we insist, one thing is political responsibility and another is criminal responsibility. Political responsibilities are perfectly determined. And that is why we maintain our initiative, so that this person can be removed from office as soon as possible. And of course we reserve the right to conduct further judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u53	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The representative of the EH team, Łódź de Munain, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u54	First of all, I'd like to correct it. I spoke in my first speech from the judge, when it was the prosecutor's report, it was my mistake. It is curious that we are talking again in these terms and above all that we are trying to bring the debate to an issue that is absolutely legal or that the defence, at least, of these people is legal, when what is being tried here, or at least to put the means so that it can be, is political responsibility. Obviously there is a political responsibility, he was a public manager and there is a political responsibility for his actions, actions that at least, you will agree with me, were not adequate. Or is it your way of doing policy of meeting with entrepreneurs prior to an invitation to tender? You do those things? Do you meet and travel with entrepreneurs – friends of yours, I imagine – but not on a personal trip, but with the city council, on a political trip, a business trip? Do you usually do those things? I understand you don't. Do you honestly believe that there is no political responsibility in a mayor who not only has preferential relations with companies for the construction and subsequent award of a project, but who, on top of that, ends up paying invoices beforehand for the work done prior to the awards? Do you believe that there is no political responsibility when the sports councillor spoke directly to companies to find out what those facilities were supposed to be like for the project? Do you think that everything was no longer prepared for companies to carry the millions of euros of construction? Do you think this is all normal? Because then there's a problem. And the problem is how things are done. If that's normal, things don't work out. One, because that's called political clientelism. And if you defend, or are coming here to defend that with political clientelism, if it is not a crime or prescribed, there is no problem, the problem I have neither my moral, you have it, and take care of your moral as well, because that is a problem. With the public money, at least me and that bank we're pretty sure it's not a game. You seem to be not so much, at least when you come here to defend a person that your management did quite badly. And that is what the debate has been about. But the real debate came to be another, or at least the proponent wanted it so, that this Parliament would urge the government to remove that person from Metro Bilbao. And it's obvious. With all this that I have asked you and that you do not think you see it as normal in what would be the administration or management of a public institution, do you believe that such a person may be leading a public project? Would you put your hand on the fire for that person? It actually puts it, today it puts it without any kind of blush. There's another problem, which probably has the Basque Nationalist Party. What is asked here is that representatives on the Bilbao Metro Council ask that person to cease being director of Bilbao Metro. And that's the big bet that's made here today. It has been left aside, and sadly it has been done, that the Council should also at least reject it at the political level, because something to be said will also have this Government, and not just the bench or party that supports the Government, which has already said quite clearly, that accepts and defends revolving doors and clientelism. But the government has also said something about that. And it made it clear to us in the commissions. He didn't give us a single piece of information, and not just that, but also, over and over again, he came to tell us how well the times in Metro Bilbao worked, that was the biggest concern. Faced with questions from the rest of Parliamentarians, legitimate on the other hand, since this government is the one who appoints, or has four or five representatives on the Council of Metro Bilbao, and appoints the director, the councilwoman went out by the tangent, she laughs at this Parliament. And in the meantime, once again, the Socialist Party of Euskadi takes the lead and lets go of another opportunity to make it clear that at least here in Euskadi clientelism, revolving doors, corruption, etc., do not go out for free, or at least should not go out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u55	Thank you, Łódź de Muuna. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Zurrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u56	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Maneiro, your speech is repeated over and over again without giving an explanation. Then, in the general explanation of the decree, I will again give you an answer, but I do want to take advantage, for, that using a term that you yourself used, and in a totally unfair way from our point of view, in the past full of general policy towards the lehendakari, once again demonstrates with your initiatives and your speeches that it is the greatest exponent of political bodywork in this House. With regard to the prosecution's findings, different interpretations have been made here, some in the ear, others because as a complaining party they have the resolution. And I have made a synthesis of what the resolution says, and discards, after eight months of investigations, some crimes or conclusions that come from the presentation, very serious, with very serious facts, crime of prevarication, misappropriation of public funds, coed, privileged information. And with regard to the second, that is, travel, one does not even go into assessing its congruence, as it is considered to be prescribed, that is, it is considered to be prescribed. But I have read what the resolution is, why the matter is closed, because there is not enough evidence of the proceedings being carried out to continue the investigation or to file a complaint, so the file of the investigation proceedings is agreed. With regard to the People's Party, which would like to give us lessons in this matter and to stand up in the adalid of the political ethics of cleanliness in public administrations, it has the same credibility as listening to the secretary-general say that the withdrawal of the proposal for peace and freedom from her expression had not obeyed pressure from Genoa, let me point out. That is, your party's credibility, especially in this matter, is zero. And the lie of a politician is very serious, because he loses all the credibility and confidence of the citizenry. What's your goal? Your goal will be to try to soil others to cover up their shames. But again, in Getxo they also went wrong, here they went wrong. And that goal is also difficult or impossible to accomplish, since it is difficult to cover the sky with two hands. You don't even save the bell, Mrs. Llanos. As for what I was saying... It seems to me very serious to make subjective assessments, staining the name of a person even more and gnawing at that person. I wasn't going to get into it, but I think it's worth highlighting. You said that the economic management of this gentleman, Mr Arruebarrena, was horrific. Well, on 31 January, when he leaves office, there is a zero debt in the City Hall, a treasury remnant available of more than 14 million and an additional remnant corresponding to the municipal land assets of 10 million euros. In other words, municipal coffers without debt and with more than 24 million euros of free disposal. If that's bad for you, it's in your right. It seems that the People's Party do better. But the data is the data. And then there is a judge, who does judge political responsibility, which is citizenship. And not long ago, I think it was the 25th of May, the citizenship was pronounced and pronounced in Leioa too, and in the face of a management as bad as you want to put here, the PNV won in all neighborhoods, in all schools and at all polling stations. The People's Party lost 35% of the boots in Leioa. If the PNV did so badly, are people stupid? I don't think so, that people know what they're doing and they're the best judge. People, citizens and time is what puts everyone in their place. Who mixes political and criminal responsibility? Who wants to judicialize political life, Mr. Maneiro, Mr. López de Muniain? The facts and objective data are there. If anyone has clear differentiation, it's us. Who, using exclusively political means, do we try to demand political responsibility without going to court? How many cases, in accordance with the criteria you maintain, could have been brought to justice: incinerator, Deskarga project, etc.? PNV doesn't do that, it doesn't play like that. And those others, who at the very least and with the sole objective of harming the political adversary, go to the courts, when things go wrong with them, is what they have.I have here a report of cases denounced by Bildu, in which finally the judicial ruling has been filed. Tell me a case reported by Bildu in which the PNV or PNV charges have been convicted. We understand that in a rule of law and minimally democratic state there are a number of basic principles that must be preserved and preserved: the separation of powers, the presumption of innocence, judicial decisions and the pronouncement of citizens every time they are consulted. It has been said in this House, spokesman for EH Bildu, that there is nothing wrong with cases of corruption. And it does. It happens that if the commission of such crimes is legally accredited, the corrupt must be convicted and convicted with complete force. But if you don't believe in justice, what happens in these cases? What has happened in this and other recent events, such as Ibarzaharra, which previously, no longer if there is a conviction, if judicially agreed to initiate proceedings, the defendant has been subjected to a genuine public trial and in many cases to a public lynching. And the sad thing about all this is that behind these charges there are people, with their families and friends, whose dignity and reputation has been seriously damaged. And then, when it is really believed that the complaint is not true, based on a principle of legality and public interest, there is no remedy for that damage caused. Or has anyone from the People's Party said anything to wash the damaged image? Rather the opposite. We've seen it, there's still doubt. And this is what is absolutely indecent and unacceptable. And in this regard, and as we personally express to Mr Arruebarrena, so that he will have no doubt, Mr López de Munain, in his appearance on 25 March, our support and solidarity for this orchestrated campaign that has suffered against him. And as has been shown, although it is hard for those who suffer, time is an impartial and independent judge and citizenship puts everyone in their place. And I will end with a few words uttered a few months ago by our lehendakari: "This people is identified by values, and our party defends and works for them: effort and honesty, sacrifice and honesty." Don't laugh, just like you don't know these terms. "Our idea and commitment is with the dignity of political activity. We are demanding with ourselves, so we can be demanding with others. Here measures are taken, here there is a control, here no one looks elsewhere as much as some keep trying to make the opposite look." Besterik gabe, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u57	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u58	Several issues. Mr. Pastor, it's not a going and coming to court. I said it at the time and I repeat it now, the request to remove Mr Arruebarrena has nothing to do with criminal responsibilities, it is not a going and coming to court. And don't be mistaken, Mr. Maneiro, you didn't cheat on him. Mr. Pastor is smarter than all that. He knew perfectly well that it was simply a distraction maneuver and a flight forward to take him to the Ethics Commission. And on top of that, he says it is the responsibility of the Basque Government to separate him. I imagine the Socialist Party will do the same in any other case. From now on, it will never require, regardless of the conduct of a political leader, a leader of any company, or of any government department, because since it is the responsibility of the Government to separate it or not to separate it, it will not make any more requests. What's changed? What has changed and what covers everything is a covenant; the covenant, the power, the armchairs, that covers everything, Mr. Pastor. What happens is that you, to be like Mr Erkoreka in Houdini's escapism, still lacks that it does not look so good, you see perfectly what is the justification for the change of attitude. Mr. Zorrilla, I told you then and I'm telling you now, what a bad style. To resort to everything, he is worth everything, especially to defend something that has no defense. Indeed, I believe that in politics and debates it is not all worth it. That no, that we know how to read everyone, that another of the crimes, apart from that of the journeys that I have told you, says that the crime of article 418 could be examined at the outset, that of the transfer of information, but that for the penalty provided by the legislator does not allow to enter to examine his accreditation because the limitation periods have passed. That the D.A.'s decree is not to breastfeed, as I told you before. Look, you know what's going on? I told you about the debate on political clientelism last week and I repeat it to you now. It's just that you think you're a white horse. It's just that you see normal things that aren't, that you're allowed to say that we don't have legitimacy. You talk about political patronage, when you give contracts to Atutxa family businesses for more than 65 million euros, to Mr Ardanza for more than 2 million euros, to the previous mayor of Bakio for more than 1 million euros, to Alaiki, in which are Gotzon Bilbao of the BBB and the mayor of Basauri, for 6 million euros, to BK for 2.5 million euros. Isn't this friendship? Isn't that political clientelism? And they have the wrinkle of talking about political clientelism. They're talking about rotating doors. Yes, but from the others. But they don't talk about the placement of Mr. Incan, Mr. Ituarte. And when someone does it wrong in his party they reward him, which is not new, that when I was at the Bizkaia General Councils to an outside deputy who had to cease him, then they appointed him to the Administrative Economic Court. That is that in his party doing it badly has a prize, far from turning him away from political management, and the management was bad and there are the economic results, he has a prize. What do you want to tell me? That all the votes cover it? What does it matter if there's someone who does it right or wrong, someone commits irregularities, is that if they vote for me already...? Look, you guys have two mantras. One, that here there is no corruption, and I told him the other day and I repeat it: here too. And two, that your management is brilliant, and that's also a mantra, because your management is not brilliant at all. And Mr Arruebarrena's management is a clear example of what is not good management. It is not good economically and it is not good from the point of view of ethics, because to go on a trip, that the companies paid it, and that comes in the decree, and then passed the bill to the City Hall. And the City Hall paid and didn't know who was going, because on one of the trips, San Diego, you didn't even know who had gone on the trip. And that's the bad thing is that you see it as normal. Because you confuse the party with the institutions and manage everything as if you were managing the batzoki. And no, Mr. Zorrilla, institutions have to be managed from ethics and regularity. And when someone lacks ethics and regularity, they can't be rewarded by naming him in something as important, in a company as important, like Metro Bilbao. Irregularity and lack of ethics should not be rewarded, but the opposite.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u59	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. Pastor mustn't speak. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote for the original text of the Mystto-UPyD proposal. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 11. The contrary, 43; the white, 0; Abstations,19.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u60	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote (stop)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u61	The correction of the EH Collectors is not accepted. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Eubertians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters of the 27; the contrary, 35; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u62	And so it is not agreed that the eucipators should have the full correction of the party. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal made by the Socialists by the law, concerning the transparency of the decisions of the Government. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Gallaustegui has the word, the initiative to present and take off.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u63	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I hope there is no problem with this infernal voting machine, because this proposal is unanimous. We want to know what is being talked about in the Government. Not from the content of their deliberations, which are secret by law, but from their agendas of the day, which the law does not prohibit dissemination and which we also hope that the new law of transparency will force to make public. And we also want to speak to the government, to the government that is not, but good. Because I don't even know how many public statements you have made about your commitment to transparency. And the explanation of this initiative for this non-legislative proposal is very simple, we want to know whether what the Government that has dealt with at its weekly meetings actually corresponds to what it actually deals with. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not uncommon for the government to announce any Tuesday a measure that does not have its translation in the corresponding economic order. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a fact that is collated and proven. And in order to find out, one has to review the opposition's control activity, especially of my group, and see that every week one has to ask for explanations on various matters that are not discussed and that they are not supported on any decision or resolution until the Government has to transfer it to the Official Gazette, sometimes several months later. Nor is it strange, as the activity of the opposition also realizes, that decisions are taken on matters outside the agenda, of which any one of us sitting in these seats will find out after the relevant press conference, usually to the greatest glory of the appointed councillor. So we presented this proposal a few months ago, with the ingenuity of thinking that the Government, nothing else having record of the record of this initiative, would correct its opacity even if it were deferred. And what has happened is that not only does it not make those orders of the day public, it has also stopped sending them to the press a week ago, while it is supposed to work and sell transparency. And finally, one last great contribution to these open door policies and provide information. This very Tuesday, as we want to encourage this debate, as we want to give our applause to the provocateur, the Government hides journalists who bother to go to the press conference of the spokesman a decision that all, absolutely all the media agree to consider as relevant: that the Government, despite what has been said by multiple spokesmen of the party that supports it, does not see obstacles to the proposal to reform our institutional framework from bottom to bottom, which does not see obstacles, in short, to reform the LTH, which, as you all know, is our proposal, of the Socialists. And this, as it cannot be in any other way and as there is no other way to deduce, with the obvious purpose of not compromising the spokesman, who, by the way, is often very interested in focusing his answers on criticizing everyone and avoiding something that might imply a rectification of his own party. And this is not good, it is not good. Because I wonder, is this attitude the expression of this government's commitment to transparency? Can't we understand that it's the opposite, the paradigm of the opposite? Because in purity, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for citizens to know what matters are on the agenda of the Governing Councils. All you need is desire and above all will. And if I was rushed, there would be no need for a law, it would be enough just to reread the Code of Ethics, which is not a norm, but it is supposed to be the express reflection of a declaration of intent. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the Code of Ethics in its article 5, paragraph 2.3, on transparency and open government, obliges officials to provide reliable and complete information to citizens on procedures, reports, studies and reasons for their decisions, as well as in particular on their financial costs and how to cover them. And it says strictly: "This information can only be restricted when exceptionally," I repeat, exceptionally, "this is what the laws provide for." In addition, article 13 establishes as the only limit the confidentiality required by law, and is committed to active advertising, trying, I read, "not only to comply with legal obligations, but to provide more transparency to its actions and to the management policies or activities of its departments or entities". I have said it many times, I also said it last Thursday, this government has inherited from the Socialist Government, apart from the good custom of having an ethical code, it has inherited Irekia, Open Data and the profile of the contractor, all of them measures of rapprochement to citizens and search for participation that are not required by any law. And yet, this Government is on its way to leaving in inheritance communications by Whatsapp, by Telegram and a series of cosmetic improvements on the official web, which tend to be designed and which allow us to see more clearly how well the Government is doing, but it does not allow us to know the official decisions it makes. If that is the whole inheritance, in case and in your case we will have to accept it only and exclusively for the benefit of inventory. Now, in no way are we going to see those laws that Parliament has forced. We Socialists have made it clear that both transparency and the public sector can be dealt with with with speed, with joy, because we consider them essential in the demand that citizens move us every day. But you don't come in, the government doesn't come in good. To this initiative that is ahead of legal requirements, you have corresponded with a closure of the faucet in public information. Critical information with the Government is subject to censorship in the dissemination of such information. The decisions of the Government that bother the party that supports it are locked up. And to the request shared by most transparency effort groups, they responded in their initial amendment with an amendment to continue doing what they do not actually do. If you want this Parliament to take this speech seriously, you must publish the agenda in a way that is accessible to citizens. They must be clear in the decisions, we have said it other times and we have to repeat it today: if a large majority of this Parliament believes that the government is dark, it is most likely to be dark. And so, today we have this agreement, we have reached this agreement, which is to be adopted unanimously. And I therefore thank all groups for their support. Therefore, also with the votes of the group that supports the Government, we are deeply pleased about this and that expands our original initiative. And to the orders of the day we add the request for publicity of matters dealt with out of the order of the day and the request, to see if it is possible, that Irekia be used as a channel of communication with the citizenry and not as a propaganda tool. If the Government begins to fulfil this parliamentary mandate and builds confidence in a commitment determined by transparency, the channel of communication will be much more expedient and, therefore, any draft legislation in this regard will have to navigate much less turbulent waters. In short, we must preach with the example of transparency, because transparency is the quality march of open governments. But in addition to preaching, it is necessary to give wheat, and that is what we expect. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Maneus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u65	Thank you, President. It seemed to us quite reasonable, although that is not enough, for the Socialist Group's proposal, since it is true that the government does what it does by selling through its weekly press conference those issues that interest it and does so in the way that interests it most. It is true that journalists can ask and look for nuances that the Government has intended to hide, soften or even distort, but the Government currently has that capacity, that possibility of hiding or not advertising everything that is debated and decided in the Governing Council. In fact, it is what you have been doing, because it is quite clear that all governments are fleeing from transparency as from the plague, and it is not just this Government's thing, all governments are doing is pretending to have the minimum possible transparency. And we have to do just the opposite: try to pretend, try to make it as transparent as possible. The Government does the same with the web, publishing in Irekia only what it is interested in and how it is interested in the Government. But there are other issues that have been dealt with and approved by the Governing Council that no one knows about, for the simple reason that the spokesman does not communicate them at that press conference, nor are they published on the web. Some, who are legally required to publish in the newsletter, will be known at the time of publication, but others will not become known if the Government does not want to. The Socialist Group's initial proposal was a step forward, but it was also insufficient, as it called for the Council's agenda to be published on the web, with the idea of knowing the issues being addressed, nothing easier to make transparency difficult than to include on the agenda that controversial or thorny issue that they do not want to know. Many times, in fact, it has nothing to do with the agenda of the council with what the counselors finally carry, because they are interested in introducing new topics. That is why we proposed, by amendment, that not only the agenda be published, but also the complete list of all the issues discussed in each Council, including those that remain on the table and those finally adopted. That would mean a high level of transparency, because the population could know all the issues that the Government is addressing, those that are approved and those that do not even get the approval of the council. Well, this idea put forward by UPyD has been included in the transactional amendment and also included some other amendment put forward by other groups, and I believe that, indeed, a more complete and better transactional has remained. As I said at the outset, all Governments fear transparency and hinder it. In fact, if we look at the amendment put forward by the Basque Nationalist Group, what it does is to say "we must continue to do what we already do". And once they saw that a much more demanding text was to be agreed, what they have done has been to add. That is to say, what we have to do by the parliamentary groups is to monitor more and better the Government what it does and to try to ensure that there is as much transparency as possible. In fact, I think that this struggle for transparency in today's times is one of the most important political battles we have to face among all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u66	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Collect EH, Łódź de Muuna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u67	Good afternoon again. As we saw in the gatherings of the past week, the transparency is no small matter, it is plain in society that the subject excites interest, even in this Chamber. The proposition which is presented to us today wishes to penetrate deeper into this sense, not only in the management of the everyday, but in the manner of making decisions in the formation of governments. Transparency thus becomes one of the fundamental pillars of the control of both the possible excesses that may be committed by the rulers, and of information on what is being done in the institutional sphere, so that society can, on the one hand, be informed and, on the other, take part in such discussions with the utmost guarantees. The existence of a broad consensus on the area we are dealing with here today helps to ensure that the approaches of both sides can be common and close to the demands of the Government, including the group that supports the Government to sign this transaction. Our amendment, as you all had the opportunity to read, assumed the amendment of the proposing group and then introduced a new key, which is that of Irekia, on how we believe, at least from our group, that it should be and operate that tool. Thus, we called on the Government to turn Irekia into a tool for communication, information and citizen participation, multiplying its content and possibilities for direct participation and interaction, thus mitigating its current propaganda touch. The proposed amendment reflects this point almost entirely, and we are therefore pleased that there is a positive view of the Irekia tool and its future development. It is clear that those who defend Irekia as a tool close to citizenship are the ones who are betting on such a tool, as a useful tool and that today we believe it is being underutilized. At no time do we want to criticize the workers who do their work in the dump or in the creation of content for Irekia, let alone, what we want with it is for Irekia to continue its growth and become, not a window of government information, but a door for citizens to enter, engage and participate in public affairs. The possibility of society is not only an option, but it must be the duty of every government. That's why we think all the teams here should sign the medium agreed on, and so we did. In fact, we must say that as there is no time to determine, we are referring to the means to do so, and we must determine the materials and personal resources necessary for this purpose, in order to make the members of the community possible and to make decisions. So we vote for this initiative and confirm our commitment to transparency, to work for pure management and the power of citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u68	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Orbehabá, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. We see no objection on our team on the basis to join this medium that we've agreed on today. For, as we were saying in our correction, it is necessary that we should continue continually to advance to promote transparency. Therefore we used this expression, "let it continue," "que siga," because we think it is a constant work. So we can get information about the public business and the public institutions. We don't have any objection to asking if, as was at first demanded in another legal proposal, the Secretary of the Government Council would publish a document signed as a whole list of government reports on the website. In fact, I have no doubt that, like those of us who have been able to discuss this initiative today, even the owners of the world have found no objection to publishing it. For as you have already seen it in the Web, the whole list of matters of the last Government Council is already available, and at least the list of subjects of the last three Government Councils; that is, besides the press summings, that document signed by the secretary. It may, therefore, be remarked that the large consent which has been obtained upon this subject is remarkable. On the other hand, our opinion is that the true political will of this fun, as the representative of the Socialist Party has mentioned, is to continue to step on the road that began during the previous law, to penetrate into the transparency of the institutions, and to promote the instruments which will facilitate the members of the people to participate in. In that sense, our team appreciates the step they took in the previous law. And now, we think it's time to go beyond the first few steps, now it's time to move forward on that road that started in 2010. And as I have already mentioned, this is a constant process. And it is open to contributes, it is open for the public to hear, as well as for the political representatives of the community. It's an open tool for sharing, citizen requests, government proposals, responses, legal questions, polls, media, videos, interviews, interviews, plens, direct and so on. There are several and several information available in it. Many things can be improved, yes, but we can't say that it's only a propaganda instrument, we at least don't agree with that assertion. Open is a tool made available to Basque society. The technological methods always change at incredible speed. Five years ago, compared with technology and today, the difference is obvious. If the management of government is therefore intermediate in order to become still more transparent, it will be necessary to improve and adapt it constantly, if it continues to be a more and more thorough part of the community during the process of public political decisions. In fact, we can't forget what the open was made for. I mean, he was created as a co-worker's despair: To promote political debate, to raise and examine the public opinion, to facilitate the public administration in the forums of the social nets, to inform them of the affairs and enterprises of the Government. And there's the data. It is clear that we all want more, but we have last year's data in it, and we are allowed to examine its course. At the website 630.291 began, he served 1,378 million pages, by which a public performance was reported, at the rate of the 77 government proposition and received 288. On social networks, he received over 27,5 million references, based on Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube, and 25,500 activities between Twitter and Facebook. During the first rehearsals of the Basque Games, the citizens had taken part in 2.436, the 549 questions, and the 12800 tapes had 163,000 tours. So, if we examine the development, we at least conclude that we are going forward in this attempt. It's obvious there's still a lot of work to do, and that's why we think it's very positive to sign this middle-way. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u70	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u71	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Very briefly, because I was going to add with emphasis to the day of the good roll, that is, of the day of all we are transparent and we make transparent policies, but I will not do it with such efusitiveness, because as seen I will not bring much. But what is true, if I may share a reflection with you, even if it is only for the record, is that everyone admits – when I say everyone I mean all the countries, all the modern states – that the rules on transparency, the only thing that comes to do is two things, which are not minor. On the one hand, they are able to support economic growth, because those sites that are more transparent are places where better investment can be made and social development can also be supported. And a second fundamental thing is to involve citizens in governance; not only to involve them, but to give them control tools over their politicians. This is the true modernity of the new political times, that is, part of the doctrine comes to speak of a sort of third generation of human rights. The world changes, the institutions change, a kind of third generation of human rights, realized in the right to know, the right to control. And knowing and controlling can only be done if governments are transparent. This is as obvious as you all know. Therefore, the question is who does not agree to preach transparency, who opposes a speech that adds transparency to government action, transparency and government action as inescapable issues. But of course, we get to the point of the good thing that we all agree on, but it can't be that three years later we're like this. Something happens, something happens when from the speech to the facts there is not only a stretch, but there are no measures that show that this government – because we are talking about this one – really takes this about transparency and equipping citizens with tools to better control. We don't even have a transparency law in Euskadi, we don't have any solid tools. Three years later, in this House, we are asking the Government to publish the minutes, to publish the agendas of its governing councils. I can understand some remorse, little interest in doing so, because the activity of this government is virtually non-existent. So, on the one hand, someone will turn red when they send the minutes, because this government doesn't legislate, this government doesn't act, this government doesn't do what it has to do, to see what happens to us, but on the other hand it's comfortable, because there's going to be very little documentation that they send and documentation that they share with the citizens. Therefore, it is a good colophon at this point the agreement you have reached. We do not have a compromise amendment, so we have not been able to participate, but we will vote for it. And all happy: the most informed citizens and the government without an added workload, because total, for what they have to share... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u72	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Gallastegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u73	If you'll allow me, from my seat, President. Only in order to repeat once again the gratitude to the amending groups and also to the non-committing party for the support for this initiative. And to say that I am indeed very grateful for the tone of your speech, Mr Orbegozo. And I am also grateful that the Nationalist Group has supported this initiative with much more enthusiasm and efussivity than the representative of the People's Group has done. But what I do want to say is that, in the end, this initiative is essentially about putting duties on the Government. And here we are going to see if the effectiveness test is actually fulfilled, if we are actually saying here that we are going to do what we are going to do. Because in the end this is an express parliamentary mandate with the consent of all groups and also with the express support of the group that supports the Government. The Government therefore has duties to do. And to the extent of the fulfilment of those duties, obviously all the channels of confidence that can be established to believe in their will for transparency, will, as I say, be much wider. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Mr. Munai mustn't speak. Mr. Greens, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u75	Thank you again, Mrs. President. As far as I can tell, it's very good to have my homework, but we'd have to ask ourselves if we'd done our homework. I don't know if that's the same cover open we've been looking at lately. It's been opened on the front porch for a long time now. So that's the fact. Mr Semper, I do not think it is the Government that does not do its duties in this respect either. I do not understand why this responsibility should lie with you, given that in the end the Government sends its bills, but it is in the Basque Parliament that they are stuck. Then I would say that there is political will to go on with transparency and cooperation. We could discuss it based on opinions, prejudices, opinions, and political interests. But I think it most important that we should all agree on such a subject, that we must take measures, and consider that it is a constant procedure, and that at a very small distance things can be improved. And just like that, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u76	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Mr. Sémper? He mustn't speak. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the mediumal corrections signed by Basque Socialists, EH Collectors and Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; 70; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u77	It's unanimous to give birth correction. The eighth point in the subject list: "The same proposal as the Julian Corps made about international sporting events. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Ruiz, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. The holding of international sporting events is being successfully consolidated in the capitals and localities of the Basque Country. We talk about a winning trend that benefits sport, benefits our athletes, the economy, tourism and the international projection of our cities. In the future we have on the horizon challenges and opportunities, such as the celebration of the 2020 Euro Cup, which will test our infrastructures, our services and, ultimately, our image and our ability to host major international events, with all that implies at the highest level. Sport, through any of its manifestations, is one of the sectors of greatest economic and social importance. Any sporting event is identified with the generation of income, benefits, wealth for the territories that host it. All sporting events, however modest and local they may be and even if they do not arouse great media interest, are important for many reasons, all attract participants and spectators. But we are not talking about the interior tourism and the displacements that can occur on the occasion of the futbit parties that self-sacrificing parents have to accompany our children on weekends. In this initiative we don't talk about it, we don't talk about promoting school sport, nor about sports at the local level. In this initiative the People's Group has wanted to focus on international sporting events, because in recent times we are increasingly being a chosen destination to celebrate these events. That the Basque Country, in addition, is associated with the celebration of international sporting events we consider to be an attribute that we are interested in enhancing. We know that looking for paths of tourism and economic development for the cities goes by finding incentives that attract a good number of visitors from outside. Sport on all scales, and especially at the international level, has become a mass phenomenon, capable of mobilizing not only sportsmen, but also those who make up their teams, fans, family members, journalists and countless people who carry out many activities beyond the mere presence in competition, show or event. In the Basque Country many localities, especially the capitals, have been the scene of sports competitions of great social significance, which have made a remarkable economic contribution. But from the People's Group we think that we still have a lot of potential and that we already have an undisputed experience in generating confidence to attract new events to our country. The combination of sport, tourism and business is already something no one discusses. It is clear that depending on the sport modality, depending on the type of competition, its geographical scope, the participants, according to their age, their sports category, the number of spectators, their origin, the infrastructures, depending on all this varies the economic and tourist impact they may have. There are many data that could be provided to justify the kindness of this initiative, resorting to events already held, such as the basketball world, the finale of high jumps, the international meeting of rugby schools, the Bilbao night marathon, to name a few, although there are many more. A special mention deserves the fact that some of these events have given us better results than that same event held in cities as important as Barcelona or Madrid. This is the case, close by, of the basketball world, with an impact on Bilbao and Bizkaia of 26.7 million euros, while in Madrid that impact was 21.7 and in Barcelona of 19.2. We are already competing for these purposes in the same league as the big Spanish and European capitals. The World Tourism Organization believes that major events, of course sports events, should be conceived and planned as tourist events, especially if we are talking about competitions of international scope. And I mean all the events. A national conference of cardiology is being held in Bilbao these days, which will leave an impact of almost 5 million euros on the territory, with more than 3,000 attendees. Evidently it is an important theme for health and health, but in the city it is also received as a tourist event, as a tourism of events, of business. The same applies to international sporting events. The explanation is clear. They generate a significant volume of travel, local development programmes, project the city, region and territory internationally and contribute to the marketing of cities. Arrivals that occur, sales generated in sectors such as restaurants, shops, hotels. Investments in infrastructure, maintenance and adequacy. The employment resulting from all this. The development of skills, knowledge and skills that are acquired in the city as a result of the holding of these events. The opportunity to introduce ourselves to the world by reinforcing our identity as a unique destination. And the illusion and pride that he wakes up as host. These are the reasons that lead our group to bet even more if it fits with this initiative in which we urge the Basque Government to design an action plan, together with the sports federations of Euskadi, to attract to our locations competitions and sporting events of an international character that contribute to the promotion of sports tourism and events, as well as the international projection of our cities. To this initiative, the other political groups have tabled their corresponding amendments and wanted to comment on them in this first intervention. Because in the case of the nationalist amendment, it does not even refer to tourism, it is simply limited, which we do not think, to continue supporting federations to do this kind of celebrations and events. In the case of the socialist amendment, it does speak of exploring formulas for external projection and internal promotion of Basque sport, which we think is very good. But it's just that our initiative wasn't about that, it wasn't about the internal promotion of Basque sport, it was about the projection of tourism thanks to the organization of international sporting events, that's what the initiative is about and not about other things. However, the Bildu amendment does indeed come closer to the objective of this initiative. What happens is that within it include some of its classics, such as making Euskal Herria internationally known, taking steps to gain recognition of our federations, i.e. introducing the most strictly political-nationalist debate of this initiative. It is also true that they will then defend a compromise amendment which I am not going to sign, but which I am going to vote on, because in its literality I could not put many reservations to it. What is happening is that we have too recent major polemics that have a lot to do with this, such as the Badminton World Cup or the behaviour and political use of the 2020 Euro Cup by Bildu. And in that regard, we have many reservations about your real attitude towards this initiative, although it is true that the compromise amendment, strictly speaking, would be voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Mrs. Ubera, represent the EH Collect Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u80	Good noon, everyone. I'd say to the spokesman from the Polipulian Party to put aside prejudice, to encourage, to go down to the content, and often we won't agree, but many others do. And in this case there was an excellent opportunity of signing this half-way proposal. Because the sport can really be an important instrument in several areas, not just in tourism. We believe it's really an important instrument in our countries, in order to cultivate so many different districts in the capitals, not just as an instrument to attract tourism. It's important as a society. Of course, every one will always see it from his own point of view, but it is all the same to what point we look at it, as I have said, it is a very valuable instrument. Of course, each of us will say that the highest point of view is mine, and there may be discussions about views. But it is true that even these views may be compatible and not opposed. As I have said, because sport contains many views of happiness, and if we were to give the importance of sports institutions, it would be more effective than a number of tools which are destined to discover means for solutions, to cultivate collective values, to live together, or to social destruction. The only thing that has any value in it is to see what sports are worth; sports, respect, confession to each other, and so much value. It's true that if the sport is badly used we can also find it in opposite ways, that's how it is. Well, to let our people know, it may also be a very useful instrument. But this demands, among other things, an association between religious and institutions. To turn our beliefs into international beliefs and other organisms. Apart from patriotism and politics, even without entering into it, sports offer an excellent opportunity to make our society known among the nations. And we have to deal with this way. Or, as has been said here, to bring round stakes and performances, which may really be an interesting piece of work. But what this demands is that the struggle is what it demands, that it is an initiative and a set of other criteria. If we're going to organize something, we've got to find out the first thing we need to do is make social profit. To be useful to our sports teams and sportsmen-that is to say, we're not going to bring a sporting view to our strategic plan which has nothing to do with our sports or sports teams, there must really be a connection to make that work and even to make it work on the basis of sport. What else? In order to make economic investment balanced too, we must seek a balance and really endure it-that is to say, the return of economic economy can be bearable. There are several criteria to be taken into when we're going to arrange something. We can't just seek to attract tourism or we can't seek economic investment alone. All criteria must be considered, and there must be a balance within itself. So what that requires is to discuss an entire strategy. Of course, that's not easy and what's done from one day to the next. And what he demands is a minimum co-ordination between all the organizations, because we can't do the Bilbo City on one side, the Donostian on the other, and the mushrooms on the other. And that's where we should avoid readings and synopsis. I mean, we often use it to assume economicly profits. This appears to us to be a very simple and simple reading, and we must consider things properly. Even when these readings are done, we can see afterwards that there is really no economic profit. It seems, then, to us that although the sport which seems sometimes to be an external matter, it has its depth and an instrument to be considered, which can really affect all the worlds. And this is what we think is essential and important: it cannot become a struggle between the capital and the country. And that's what we'd like to emphasize: an association with religious institutions, with sports institutions, with all the implicated, united and planned. Because we don't have capacity in this small town, I don't know what it was to bring in a sports camp or a national race show and do another in Donosta for the next three months. So if we really believe in those values we always profess, this is what, for instance, is not possible, a competition between Bilbo and Don Quixote, or a competition between Gasteiz and Bilbo. We think we really need to design a combined strategy. And therefore we have proposed a medium, and in this medium we think that the criteria of all groups have been taken into consideration, and that it is a very complete and integrated medium. We're asking you to do something in a united strategy, to design an action with sports lessons, other institutions, other agencies that may be involved in, our villages, and, of course, the capitals, the national sports shows, evidence, and encounters. It seems to us that we have in our hands a very important business which we have so little to do hitherto in our country. What for? Thus, if we promote and project our sports and sportsmen on national level, because if we organize a show like that, it's not just outside ourselves to bring sports or sports teams, but also to project our sportsmen, we think that's very important. And with that, of course, bringing in tourism and looking for social profit, economic gain, which is always the bearable balance and return of economics. Let something be reasonable, and always within our abilities. That's all, thank you. And thank the teams you signed half-way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u82	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to you all. Indeed, the subject of Basque sport, the projection of our athletes and the concern that we all have to try to increase the level of tourism, with all that this has to do with it, is a concern I believe that of all the political groups and that we have already spoken in Parliament on some occasion. Mrs Ubera has already explained exactly what the content of the transaction is, and I will focus a little on Mrs Ruiz's speech on the amendment tabled by the Socialist Group. The Socialist Group has read perfectly the original initiative put forward by the Group of the European People's Party, and in the most global sense, that is, the philosophy of what the initiative says, we absolutely agree. And when the Socialist Group proposes an amendment to the whole and includes the subject of Basque sport, it does so because it believes that it was the lack of the original initiative. Because it is very good that we worry about the tourism that affects our Autonomous Community, it is very good that we worry about international competitions reaching our capitals and our peoples, but the Socialist Parliamentary Group is concerned about the situation of our Basque athletes and the lack of projection that they have today in international sport as well. And I say this because in the committee dealing with sports issues we have attended parliamentary hearings in which the sportsmen themselves claim, through specific demands, the situation in which they live today. There is a lack of support for elite athletes, there is a lack of budgetary policies, they need tools that increase the opportunities they have to get out of here, and not only in terms of economic issues, but they were asking the Sports Directorate for perhaps more explicit support in order to be able to develop their own activity and to be recognised outside our Basque borders. I say that they have demanded it and, therefore, we understood that introducing the sports federations – you spoke of the sports federations of Euskadi, but we were talking about external projection and internal promotion of Basque sport – was a way of collecting in the form of an amendment the demands we had received in the commission itself. And we thought that including what you proposed in your original initiative and what we believed to be lacking, somewhat completed the scenario of the original initiative. Because it is true that there are more and more international competitions in Euskadi, it is true and no one can deny the reception they have when they arrive, because it is true that Basque society turns into those international competitions. But it is true that there is a little lack of support for our own athletes and that, although tourism, is fundamental and it is a concern that we all have and that in recent years many numbers have improved and Euskadi has become one of those autonomous communities that receives more and more tourists, not only from tourists who come to leisure topics, but it is one of the autonomous communities that collects more and more congresses, as you said, health issues, sports issues, advocacy topics that Vitoria had a few months ago, it is true that we felt it was necessary a little bit to complete the original initiative. Therefore, we believe that everything that supports Basque sport and non-Basque sport, and everything that supports tourism that affects the Autonomous Community, with everything that entails economic, social parameters, is good for Euskadi. But we believe that it was a way of bringing the two sectors together, sports and tourism, and we believed that this was the way to complete the initiative and perhaps the final compromise amendment was better. Therefore, to acknowledge ourselves in the satisfaction of the agreement reached and I understand that it is true that we shared the original initiative that you had proposed, but we believed that it could be improved. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u83	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Northeast, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u84	Thank you, ma'am. Chief physician, good afternoon to all. Our country has always had a taste for sports. If Hobby is present, it must be a part of the people, and if it is a part of the community, there must necessarily be an act; Showing, tournaments, meetings, including the international ones. We have always stood for it in the Jeltzaan Party, and have often proclaimed the will and necessity of organising international competitions of official character. In the long run, too, M. M. M. M.M., with a lot of other sportsmakers, with religious and institutions, in order to organize these international performances. Now, from EAJ-PNV we believe that we should not just settle for organizing international events, but we need to go beyond organizing and we need to be ambitious, so that our Basque athletes, including federations, can participate in these events that we want to be played in our peoples. We are aware of the difficulties, lack of willingness of the agents involved, but we do not resist that our athletes cannot participate and represent our people in events organized here and throughout the world, to demonstrate our sporting gifts. The current Basque Government has also very internalized these two themes: organization of international events, and Basque participation in those international events. The two themes along different paths, with different problems, despite often accusing us of mixing it. And it's not true that we want to mix them. As for the organization, the present government has a calendar, bringing international sports views into our town, along with sports institutions, sports performances, and other agencies in common. Some are already made, others are organized by an agreement every year, and others are also in length, some shut up, and others in an artificial negotiation. The most important thing for us to do is not where the initiative begins, or who takes possession of it, but the will and design of all the agents and institutions that are involved, which we often miss. We are sure that working in this way the results will be positive. In fact, as I said before, there is a timetable for international events that has been put here this afternoon in the Chamber. The job that's working together with the organizations and sportsmakers is, in our humble opinion, the way to follow. That way we'll have a chance to watch international contests and entertainments in our own country, and, of course, our sportsmen will be able to participate in these contests. In this sense, we introduced an entire correction. Today we have seen that all corrections are in the same sense, and we have signed a medium, which any one may vote. I would say to Mrs Ruiz that in our amendment we said "continue to support" because she is doing so. In all the events you have said here, the government is supporting it. That is why we said that we continue to support them in collaboration with federations and bodies and institutions. And we're also glad we signed the media, and for the protection of this initiative here. Thank you, that's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u85	Thank you, Mr. Northraguire. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Misto-UPyD shouldn't talk. We'll take the answers turn. Mrs. Ruiz, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Ubera, I would like you to dispense with prejudice and go to the content. And indeed, in view of the content, I will vote in favour of the compromise amendment. Mine aren't prejudices, it's just some inertia and maybe background knowledge. And I'm almost surprised, because this is the first time in my recent political life that I can talk about these issues with such a Zen environment I would almost say, because this in other places has been much more heated, passionate and much more controversial debates. Which, I'm telling you, they're not prejudices, they're just precedents. In any case, I say, if I refer to the content, the content I will approve. Many subjects have been mentioned, I don't say accessories. In this case I did not want to put the protagonist in it, in the basic sport, which would be the subject of initiatives protagonists in itself, but rather taking advantage of what is happening in recent years for many reasons in the Basque Country, which our cities are increasingly being destined for international sporting events, we are accumulating a knowledge to do in these matters and we are also being associated with a destination that does well, that we are hospitable, I think it would be good to take advantage of that trend and to take advantage of it even more. And for that reason, it seems to me good that in the end here we approve of making an action plan to bring international sporting events. Are we also going to promote values such as sports, respect, mutual recognition, competitiveness, which is going to result and which is going to feed back to basic sport? Undoubtedly, it was only necessary to see how suddenly the basketball hobby was stimulated when it was the world cup. I mean, all of that has all these consequences anywhere. Easy or simplistic reading of benefits. Well, luckily there are ways to account for it and we have data. Then, whatever is ruinous, indeed it will not have to be done. But the truth is that today many of these events leave a lot of wealth in our cities. The dispute between territories and capitals? In some cases some capitals offer on a tray to others to do so. I believe that we will not be able to avoid a certain degree of competitiveness, because there is also a lot of competition between cities, but I do believe, and we are in the Basque Parliament, that the Basque Government should lead, and I understand that it will already do so, with an action plan for us all to win over this matter. By projecting our athletes with the capture of international events, you may also be able to take advantage of it. But I think it requires more specific actions and that with this would not be enough to achieve it. It is also true that, aside from the tone with what is being celebrated this last item on the agenda, we cannot be naive and sometimes, I say, that is why it was not injury, but inertia, we have seen that sporting events have been used to perhaps make claims that could have harmed the image of the city. In any case, although it is not my original initiative that comes forward, it is unanimously approved that the Basque Government should make an action plan to bring international sporting events to the Basque Country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u88	Very short. While we're talking in this case about international sports and shows, we're not talking about basic sport. This, then, must be cleared up and distinguished: one thing is an elementary sport, another sport is the most amateur, another an elit and another the entertainment. So, when we bring international shows, it's mostly our high-level sportsmen, elites, professionals, or high-class amateurs to project them into the level of the international world, and here to influence them. And of course, that will have a connection later on, and it will affect basic sporting. But that has nothing to do with school sports or basic sport. Two things are very different. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs. Rojo, does anyone have to talk? Mr. Northre? Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of the proposition of Euscala as the Potula Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of the 12; counters, 61; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u90	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, EH Collector, the Basque Socialists, and the Middle Amendments signed by Eucalists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 71; counters, 0; white; 1; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-10-22.u91	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. As we have exhausted the list of subjects, I look upon the whole meeting as an end. The meeting ended at two o'clock in the afternoon.
