ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, tell them that the new House Member Earth has delegated the vote. Presidedly on the subject. "Greet up the other bill of law-making around the new law of the Hydrocarburs. As for the other legal proposal, to decide once and for all the drawings of the conference of the whole 7th of May, according to the 92.1 article of the Ruler." It was a draw to the vote of the universal correction introduced by the popular Basque team. According to the 92.1 article of the ruler, we're going to make that correction vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 37; the opponents are 37; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u1	It's a draw, it's cancelled. First point in theme list: "Relationship of the Incomprehensibility Committee made on the board of Public candidates' compatibility status. The controversy and final solution of the judgment, and, if so, the naming of the mediator. Any members of the board would like to speak for the judgment? Are any of the legislatures willing to vote for or to oppose the judgment? [[Pause]] That's all we're going to vote for. We're gonna vote for the union committee's resolution. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 74; the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0,0; white; 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u2	The judgment has been unanimously accepted. According to the article 234.6 of the Eusual Act, each team is 5 minutes away. Missta-UPyD representative, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u3	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, all of you, counselors, Mr. lehendakari. It is clear that Mr Lezertua will be elected Ararteko with the favourable vote of the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party and the People's Party. For us he is the only candidate and he is the one who will be elected. We have no doubt, therefore, about the matter. From now on we wish you luck in your new role and hope you will be able to face the challenges ahead. From the point of view of his résumé, career, experience, abilities or attitudes, we have no doubt that he is prepared in principle to carry out his duties and responsibilities. It does seem to be, or at least it doesn't seem to be. We are going to vote blank, mainly for three reasons. The first of the reasons, for the forms employed by the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party and the People's Party to choose and not to present their candidate. How have things been done? On December 23, we read in a media outlet that the Basque Nationalist Party proposed to the lawyer Manu Lezertua as the new Ararteko. On 20 February, we read in a media outlet that the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party and the People's Party agreed to appoint Ararteko to Manu Lezertua and to thin the institution. And finally, last May 17, we read that Mr Lezertua will be named Ararteko after the elections held last Sunday. It seems reasonable to me that it is the Basque Nationalist Party, party with more votes, majority party, that proposes a name for the position of Ararteko; it is the most reasonable, it is the most logical, it is understandable. It also seems reasonable to me that it is the Basque Nationalist Party that offers that name to the Basque Socialist Party and to the People's Party, and that it is they who come to an agreement and make a pact; it is also reasonable, it seems understandable to me. But I think that, once that agreement was reached, it had to have been made public and publicly they had to have given the reasons for the choice of that name, they had to have explained the reasons why that person had been chosen as the new Ararteko. Moreover, these parties, in our view, had to have asked Mr Lezertua to appear in committee so that he could explain in that committee his experience, his curriculum, his baggage, his abilities and his programme and his priorities. However, they did not. It was UPyD who had to ask for Mr Lezertua's appearance so that Mr Lezertua could explain the reasons why he was able to carry out this important work. However, I say, the political parties that elected him decided not to ask for this person's appearance. I believe that this is something that should be corrected for the future, in the interests of transparency and so that citizens can also know which person is going to be elected Ararteko, and so that parliamentary groups also have the capacity and the possibility to ask him why he feels able to carry out that work. Second reason. In that committee we asked him several questions, and although it is true that he seems to be a prepared person, he was not convincing enough with the need to resize the institution, reduce staff and wages and otherwise choose the workers. Even if it is something that belongs to us as parliamentarians, it is essential that he agrees, and we have not seen him sufficiently committed to those objectives. And third reason. Nor was it overly concise in relation to its commitments, challenges and priorities. To this day Basque society faces extraordinary challenges, related to the maintenance of the welfare state, the right to decent housing and another series of issues that I myself raised in that committee, a series of challenges that the previous Ararteko already put on the table and explained to society as a whole exactly what they were. Finally, it is obvious that we are most responsible for solving people's problems and facing the challenges of society, but Mr Lezertua did not commit himself to too many things. That is why we finally decided to abstain. In any case, he is the candidate elected by the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party and the People's Party, and obviously we wish him luck.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u4	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Sémper, who represents the Potula team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u5	Egun where you're going. Mila esker, andrea president. Lehendakari jauna, sailburuak, egun on guztioi. Ongi etorri, Lezertua jauna; welcome, Mr. Lezertua. We do not think it is so important on this occasion who puts on the table a name, but the suitability of the characteristics, but the suitability of the proposed person. In this way, the People's Party, as soon as it had the opportunity to know that the proposal was that of Mr Lezertua to hold this important position, this important position for which we are voting today, had no doubt about approving it and agreeing on its name. It seems to us a person with an accredited profile, with an accredited tour and with sufficient preparation and training for the important challenge he has to face. And in that sense, that's why we welcome you and that's why our agreement. It has innumerable challenges, here they have been said, among them fundamentally two. To adapt and continue to adapt the institution of the Ararteko to the 21st century, to the important challenges as well as to the new citizen demands, and for this it must also have the support of the political formations represented here and certainly that of the People's Party will have it, in order to provide a service to the citizen also suitable to the new demands. And the second challenge, which for us too is fundamental, because the first is supposed to be, is to adapt the office to a commitment also expressed by the candidate himself, by Mr Lezertua himself, by Ararteko himself, to adapt the office to new budgetary demands and to rationalise by reducing that office to what the citizens demand: an Ararteko, an office in Ararteko more effective or as effective as hitherto, but adapting and rationalizing the office from a budgetary point of view. That is Mr Lezertua's commitment, that is one of the demands that the People's Party put on the table before expressing our support for his candidacy, and we hope that this will be manifested. That, together with a proper service to the citizen, and of course in line with the new demands, will give a good account of Mr Lezertua's success in this important challenge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u6	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Basque Socialist Group. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u7	Thank you, President. The Socialist Group will vote in favour of Manu Lezertua's candidacy as Ararteko and we believe, before and after his appearance in the Commission on Human Rights – I thank Mr Maneiro for requesting it, also Bildu did – in which he explained his intentions regarding Ararteko... It seemed to us then and now seems to us that he is the most suitable person to take the lead in this advocacy and supports his training as a lawyer of the Basque Government, of the Constitutional Court, within the Council of Europe, of which he is now director of the Congress of Local Authorities, and also supports his experience in the defence of human rights and social rights. And we also support his positive view that the Party Act was in line with the Convention on Human Rights. And I say that it is a guarantee, because in making this assessment, Mr Lezertua demonstrated that we cannot be neutral in the face of the violation of human rights, which had moral criteria, and that is why it seems absolutely positive to us. We therefore believe that Mr Lezertua broadly fulfils the conditions required to hold office and to take care of the citizens in the face of the neglect or irregularities of the administration, or to make recommendations for the improvement of public services. Therefore, I understand that he will be a worthy successor of the people who have preceded him as Arartekos, of Juan San Martín, of Xabier Markiegi, of Merche Agundez and of Iñigo Lamarca, who was the last holder of the defense, and even of Julia Hernández, who has replaced him in office until now. We trust that he will be able, at the head of his team, to further develop the institution in order to adapt it to the new demands that citizens now have: that of the economic crisis, which is hitting especially the most defenceless people and which demands from Ararteko a special sensitivity; and the reality of a total paradigm shift in relations between the administration and the citizens. And in this task you will have the support of the Socialist Group. In fact, the amendments we have tabled to the bill that will be debated in this House to update the Ararteko law are precisely in the direction of increasing Ararteko's connection with Parliament and society and giving him greater guarantees in his activity. That is why, among other things, we have proposed in the amendments the mandatory appearance of the candidates for Ararteko before their election, to defend their suitability for office and to present their proposal for action, and also that from now on the deputy or deputy be also elected by Parliament. Similarly, we are careful not to extend the vacancy of the Ararteko indefinitely and propose that the law expressly states that the institution must have sufficient human and material resources to carry out its functions. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u8	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Aguirre, representing the EH team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u9	Thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all. Today the Basque Country will vote for Luix Barnagarreremteria. In fact, he's the best candidate we can see to be international. It is he who has taken the firm engagement to receive the witness given by the lama who has been willing to serve all the people who compose it, to guarantee the rights of the people, and to be remunerated. For during the last few days, in a couple of weeks, we have seen two models face to face. First of all, Bacargarrem's crew, the candidate who has been introduced into this country. He has engaged to continue to give a firm answer to the critical social and economic crisis that this people are suffering. It's based on working for human rights. He said clearly that in his performance the hands, his rights, and his rights, were to be understood even in a spasmodic point of view; that is to say, to be able to defend the citizens as much as possible, without limit, without fear, with courage. In this endless administration of administration, the administration which directs the control of the administration itself and of the people: police, prisons, etc. His authority will have a direct connection with the exceptions, and the tools and measures which it controls to disappear. He said that justice ought to be brought closer to the people. Cut off bad police practice in the streets and police stations. And this is why it is necessary to go into prisons, to enter various cops, or other detention centers. Is it not intermediary that the rights of men are guaranteed, or ought to be denounced? Is it not the office of the mediator that ought to work in the way to respect all human rights? The Barnagarmente made a firm commitment to this. And he said clearly: This is effected, for there is a pattern in it, the figure of Sindica of Catalonia. Even with the rights of language, he pointed out that his duty was essential, and that the rights of the languages of the Basques are still now broken up, an essential kind of work. And finally he showed the pattern of the inner structure of work: in transparency, a pattern based on choice, efficiency, and income. He proposed that this should be done by OPE, and that the wages should be equalled by the other administrative duties which are now established. This would give you a chance to create more jobs and this would help you to complete your previous tasks. It's the model of the Barnagarremteria that defends the Basque Country. That's why we've trusted him, and that's why we propose it as a mediator. A bold example, a progressive pattern, an illusion model. And the other model is the one we've seen this week. On Tuesday, Mr. Lezerta was on the committee. We've seen that he's got a good and long resume that he's been working for a long time in international institutions. It's okay, but this isn't a contractation company. Many of the incognites stopped last week at the Basque Country Committee, to illustrate a great deal about what was to be done and about the inner structure. We didn't see any precision in the program. The Basque Country asked him if he was a Architecture and he had already chosen the surrogate. But we received no answer. We don't know whether PNV, PSE, and the PP, is within that package or not. We will make this proposal, there is the Barergarremteria, who knows the condition of this people from the very beginning, and has shown decency and power to answer the hinges of this people. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u10	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre generous. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u11	Mr. President, Mr. President, Mr. Lever. It's a great honor for the Jeltizer Party to present himself to Mr Manuel Leder. We have one of our most important organizations, a high-class member of the Basque Act, and defends the rights of citizens in the activity and public politics of the American Ministry of the Esquimenia Esquire. We celebrate the 30th anniversary of his birth this year, and during all these years, his keen and remarkable activity has become one of the most valuable institutions of our country. The great merit of it has been owing to the people who had hitherto been among the Ardicus. Juan San Martin began the Ardria and took the first steps of organization. Xabier Marchig and Merche Agúndez opposed the process of strengthening. And for the past ten years, the Lamarca has brought the institution to the highest level, until its authority has been magnificently executed. This is where I thank the Dom Lamarcara and my team. It was not, therefore, an easy task to find the right person to follow this prosperous path, who was superior to the parties, capable of a great deal of understanding, well trained and experienced in the defence of human rights. All this is Manuel Lezerta Rodríguez. It did not seem easy to find a person who grouped the exact requirements to be Araterko. A professional with a solid legal background, a long career in the service of citizens from the public service, first as a lawyer in the Basque Government, then in the Constitutional Court and then in different European institutions such as the European Court of Human Rights and the Council of Europe, developing most of the time activities closely linked to the defence and promotion of the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals. As a high commissioner of the Basque Parliament for the defence of the fundamental rights of citizens, its programme of work is and must be to comply with and enforce the law of the different Basque public administrations, not as a judicial body, but as a persuasive judiciary. In this sense, both his training and his brilliant career in the defence of human rights and his deep knowledge of the different institutional and administrative levels are a guarantee of success in the task that this Parliament is going to entrust to him from today on. There has been no shortage of those who have intended to tarnish a broad agreement, which significantly exceeds the three-fifths majority required for their election. We have thus been able to hear terms these days as agreement behind the backs of the citizens or secret pact, without more than concealing either their political irrelevance or their undisguised practice of tax methods in the exercise of political action. Those who understand the agreement, the dialogue, as a contract of accession, when not as an act of submission of the rest to their positions, are not the most suitable to give lessons of negotiation, agreement and consensus. The fact is that while some today we present a well-known candidate capable of reaching a very broad consensus – 53 parliamentarians of 75 – and thus giving continuity to an institution highly valued by citizens, others launch their own lure with a mark on the house and without any other objective than to mark territory. Political independence, neutrality of its actions, permanent dialogue, persuasion, radical defence of human rights, recognition and defence of diversity as social value, incardination in the European framework and continuous improvement, are some of the values to which Manuel Lezertua has committed himself in the exercise of the office of Ararteko. We trust your commitments and wish you the greatest success in this endeavour, always for the benefit of the people. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u12	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Then we'll vote for the interstate. The 2nd article of the Law of Arts, saith: "The law of the law shall appoint an intermediary as its regulations say. The majority of the three-fifths of the members of the legislature are to be named. If this majority does not succeed, the maximum number will be complete within the month period, one after the other." According to the article 96.3.b of the ruler, the choice will be made by cards. You'll have a card to vote for each candidate's name or white. Next, to draw... [[Pause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u13	We'll start after 27. The first secretary called the congressmen to vote. A name vote has been made, which has been previously called to the members of the legislature, and this is the result: the votes given at the conferences, 74; 75; 21. Mr. Luix Binagarremteria for the candidate; 53, Lezerta Rodríguez for the candidate, 1 for the white.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u14	The law has been obtained by the majority of the three-fifths required. So it's called the Arlia, Mr. Rodríguez. Congratulations, Mr. Lezerta. [[Applause]] Before you go to the second point on the subject list, the doorbell doesn't work, so I suggest you drop the vote by noon. No funcion el timbre y, por dot, os propon dejar was beginning to grow. At the end of the vote at noon, and in the afternoon, it'll be fine. Second point on the subject list: "Mutation, introduced by the members of Laura Garrido Knörr Euspula Group, on the removal of good names and pressure of the activity of justice. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs Garrido, representing the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u15	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. A few weeks ago we presented an interpelation addressed to the president, but Erkorea, chief of the department, and the spokesman of this government answered this interpelation. And we asked the government if the object of this government was to depresitiate and to press the paper, when the judicial resolutions were not his favorites. As I was saying, Mr. Erkoka answered us. And in this answer he quoted: the judges and courts are public authorities, and as far as they are public authorities, their decisions, as well as the decisions of other public institutions, are subject to the censure of society, they may be censured. Yes, Mr. Erkoreek said that, but he said two remarks on behalf of the Polulacian Party. Crimes always have a limit: the rights of others can never be trampled upon. And this boundary is indispensable, and this boundary must always be respected. These criticisms are peculiarly within the reach of public power, and when public offices do it, they must always be within the institutions of the institution of respect. This is the case, and this principle ought to be founded on the dispositions of all public authorities, or of all those who have their cares, or their censures. And we must say, unfortunately, that this frontier is not respected by this government, and sometimes by some of the charges of the Jestric Party, but sometimes by the fact that they do not respect it. Mr Erkoreka said, in the reply to the question we made to him from the People's Group to which I referred, that I have said that criticism of judicial decisions is legitimate, provided that certain limits are respected, provided that criticism does not involve accusation, does not involve complaint. "It is that judicial decisions, such as those of this Parliament and those of any other public authority, are subject to criticism. Don't tell me that the only public authority whose decisions cannot be criticized is those of judges and courts of justice." Yes, Mr Erkoreka, Mr Lehendakari – I take this opportunity to tell you now that he is present in this debate – but when criticism is systematically aimed at pressuring and disstigating the action of justice, it draws a lot of attention, and they also have that objective when it comes to judicial decisions, decisions of the courts that do not like the Basque Nationalist Party, this government or the leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party who support this government. And the criticisms have a limit, due institutional respect, taking into account also that they are carried out by institutional representatives or prominent political leaders of the Basque Government and the party, as I said, which supports the Government. The General Council of the Judiciary has already recalled this on several occasions. He recalled the right to criticism, but always the advisability of accompanying the criticisms of the measure that political leaders are supposed to value them, for the binding institutional respect that must govern relations between the public authorities. It seems that this the nationalist leaders of this Government, with the lehendakari at the head, and other nationalist leaders, do not respect them, because in their criticisms there are obviously enough limits to all that due institutional respect and that measure that should accompany the criticisms. Or is it a measure when statements are made by Mr Urkullu, by Mr Erkoreka, who systematically refer to... Because it is not a point, it is always that there is a judicial decision, a judicial decision, an action in the field of justice that they do not like, that they do not like, that does not satisfy their interests. When you talk about the judicialization of politics, the politicization of justice. The lehendakari looks at me like he's saying very strange things. These things you say. It's just that these things are in the hemerotheque, they're in their statements, and I'm saying not on time. When you said yourself that it was curious that the whole procedure would come to light in a pre-election process, I am referring to the case of Michael. You have made these statements very recently when the judge's decision concerning the case of De Miguel, the investigating judge, was already known. Mr. Ortuzar was talking about a breach of due process. In other words, Mr Ortuzar allows himself the luxury of delegitimizing the action of justice as well and speaks simply of bankruptcy of procedural guarantees. Of course, as long as it affects you and it seems that we are before judicial decisions that are not to your liking or that do not suit you, or that do not satisfy you, as I said before. Of course, Mr Egibar already pointed out that the investigating judge in the De Miguel case had merely copied 80% of the conclusions of the Basque Parliament's committee of inquiry, also in an attempt to discredit the actions of the judges who were investigating this case. Therefore, as is clear, this is not the first time, Mr Lehendakari. It seems to be the usual focus of a party, of its various leaders, institutional representatives, when they feel that judicial decisions are not right for them. They are, therefore, statements that attempt to attack the division of powers, the judicial independence, which is the pillar, the essence of a democratic system. And precisely that independence of the courts that you always attack, always question, is precisely the safeguarding of our rights and freedoms. It is evident that all these statements are opposed to the division of power and the judicial power, and that the independence of justice is a guarantee of our rights and liberties. It is necessary to remind them that justice is not to satisfy their interests and demands, and it seems to be that the highest institutional political leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party attack, and as he said not on time but repeatedly, those who investigate and try to clarify the truth, as in this case De Miguel, which is in respect of which there have been numerous statements that attempt, as he said, to delegitimize, to discredit the courts, the action of the courts. I do not know if the Basque Nationalist Party is believed that its influence can reach the very courts of justice, but sometimes according to the statements made, it seems that they would like to have that control and that the EBB's own tentacles reach the very courts. Therefore, I would tell you that criticism is enough. Of course the interpellation and this initiative presented today aims to call them and make a call for attention, to bring a debate to this House and to tell them clearly that it is enough criticisms that attempt to attack the judicial system, the action of justice, when they are decisions that you seem not to like, do not satisfy you, or decisions that even try to clarify that truth that seems to be that you do not want to be clarified. That is why, in this motion, we were talking about respecting the functioning of our rule of law, very basic things, which seems to have to be reminded again of this Government and which seems to have to be reminded of a government of the Basque Nationalist Party, such as respecting the functioning of our rule of law, such as not interfering in the performance of the judiciary through demonstrations that could discredit and pressure the action of justice. That is what this initiative was intended to do. Given the amendments, I want to say that there is obviously no possible approach to EH Bildu, because it proposes an absolutely sectarian approach, out of place and that we do not share at all. I must also say that the amendment by the Basque Nationalist Party is almost similar. That "the Basque Parliament declares that a genuine rule of law must always preserve all the fundamental rights and freedoms of the people", because, of course, yes, but here we miss not a self-criticism, but make an appeal to the essential points that were raised in the motion or also essential issues that have been raised by other groups, such as the Socialist Party, the UPyD Party, with which it has been possible to sign a compromise amendment. That is, as respect for our rule of law said, do not interfere with the performance of the judiciary. Also that criticisms can be made, of course, that criticisms can be made in the exercise of freedom of expression. But in those criticisms all the institutional representatives – and here we include the institutional representatives with responsibilities of government and here other institutional representatives, as can be spokesmen or qualified leaders of the parties and there would obviously be Mr Egibar included – when those criticisms are made in exercise of that freedom of expression, the principle of separation of powers and judicial independence is always respected. We also think that a reference made by the Socialist Party to reinforce the principles of action set out in the Code of Ethics, that Code of Ethics which you have announced to us in a drum and dish, seems to be that on some occasions you do not have much in mind. It is therefore also appropriate to strengthen the principles of action set out in this Code of Ethics concerning institutional and personal respect, and not to resort to insult and disqualification. And then an issue that we also routinely remind this Government, which is the fulfilment of parliamentary mandates in accordance with the current law and also with the recommendations adopted by the committees of inquiry in this House. That many of them obviously do not like this Government, that they criticize it in their legitimate right, but that once the relevant resolutions and recommendations are adopted, this Government should comply with them or put in place the necessary means for their implementation. The essence of the UPyD Group's amendment was also in that sense, and I therefore believe that the compromise amendment reflected the essence of what the three parties were collecting, that there was a minimum common denominator and a common point in recalling some very basic issues to this Government, and in that sense this compromise amendment was signed and will be put to the vote in this House. And we will see whether these basic principles of political action are endorsed by the Basque Nationalist Party or not. I am also grateful for having reached an agreement with the Socialist Party and UPyD. I want to say that it is an agreement that satisfies us. I believe that the three of us will see what is the result of the vote and what is the position of the party that supports the government. Besterik gabe, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u16	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, Mrs. Gallingse, the Basque Socialist, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u17	Thank you, President. Good morning, lehendakari; good morning, counselor; good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We hope, not without a little fear, to attend a debate which, by its wording, by its operative wording, despite the correction made by the proposer and in the light of the amendments tabled in their entirety, can be false, perhaps a little misleading, a little elusive. We also hope that this debate will not take place on a tangential basis, which should be the real objective of the initiative, which I believe is nothing other than the demand for interinstitutional respect. It is interesting to point out, ladies and gentlemen, that in the inquiry that gave rise to this motion the representative of the PP started from a series of statements made by a representative of the party that supports the Government. And that starting point at the end turned out to be exactly the nuclear center of the interpellation, which allowed, if I may say so, the spokesman of the Government to escape the pronunciation that was intended with the interpellation and wash his hands like Pontius Pilate. But that's already a matter. Because, indeed, there was one representative of the only group that supports the Government, which is the Nationalist Group, and the only group in this House that did not support the conclusions of the committee of inquiry in the so-called De Miguel case, which made clear statements of contempt for judicial work. And this, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to interference in the action of justice, if I am also allowed to express myself, is, apart from petty, an unequivocal sign of the absence of certain essential democratic deficits. But it must also be said, ladies and gentlemen, that this disregard of the judicial decision, of that order for the completion of the previous proceedings in that case, is not only so with regard to the substantive issue or because they do not suit the party that supports the Government, in this case the PNV, but because the judicial conclusions of the investigation phase fully coincide with the parliamentary account. And that's sometimes the government bothers. And this, moreover, certainly shows that that commission of the last legislature acted with rigour, that the substantive competences and the documentation collected had entity from both the legal and the political point of view and not, as that same representative insisted on denouncing, that it was a political plot with intentions or electoral purposes. It is an easy resource, which they often use from the Basque Nationalist Party and from the Government: every time they remain in a minority, in an uncomfortable minority, everything has an electoral background. And as honourable senators, buttons, not a button, buttons: the rejection of the Public Administration Act is electoralist, the adoption of the Housing Act is electoralist, all that this Parliament approves against the interests of the Government is electoralist, it is not the result of agreement, consensus and interest in the achievement of the common good, it is electoralist. But I'm gonna get back to it. I told you, ladies and gentlemen, that there was a commission of inquiry which acted strictly in accordance with the rules of procedure of this House, without interfering in any way with the jurisdiction, without interfering with the investigative and investigative acts that were taking place in the court proceedings, and giving notice to the prosecutor's office of how much data could be held by the commission and could be relevant from the criminal point of view, which is the obligation. And a letter. In case there is someone in this Parliament, who I do not know, who wants to eliminate the committees of inquiry, he has only one way, and it is to intervene and propose the relevant parliamentary reform. And at the same time, ladies and gentlemen, on returning to the core, there has been a judicial investigation, as I said, and there is therefore a clear coincidence between the persons called to testify by the court and those quoted by the commission. There has been a clear coincidence in the documentation handled by some bodies. And therefore, ladies and gentlemen, there is a clear coincidence between the judicial and parliamentary conclusions. And even if it seems like a peregrine, the government is obliged to comply with what the judges decide and it must also comply with what this Parliament says. You have to abide by what you both decide, each within your sphere. And the outcome of the proceedings may result in criminal liability, if finally decided by the courts. Political responsibilities may also arise. But all it will do is propose mechanisms of action to prevent this from happening again. That's what he's going to play. To our group, therefore, it seems to us that the most constructive thing that can come out of here is to remind Perogrullo again and remind the Government that it must respect and fulfil parliamentary mandates. All parliamentary mandates that are consistent with the current law and the recommendations of the commissions of inquiry adopted by this House, as well as judicial resolutions. And this is so we don't miss it. We must also remember fundamental issues, and one of them is that in our democratic system this Parliament is not the one to say what the Government should do with the party that supports it, as reflected in the literality of the initial motion, despite the correction to save the process of the initiative. But on the contrary, we can remember again those commitments made by the Government itself and by the group that supports it in this House. And those commitments that we deduce are solidarity commitments between the government and the party. And we are referring to the Code of Ethics, to its principles, to appeals, to institutional and personal respect, so that all opinions, all of them, are respectable, cannot be transferred or understood as an insult or disqualification. To denounce the coincidence between judicial and parliamentary conclusions, implying that the judge has not done his work in the way he should, is at least to understand that there is a lack of rigour. What I have said, and I repeat it again, ladies and gentlemen, is that it has been absolutely demonstrated that the committee of inquiry in this Parliament acted with absolute rigour. In any case, it is a good occasion – as always, anyone is good – to claim all our freedom of expression. And when I say ours, I mean everyone's. Because, among other things, I understand that this is the best way to dignify politics, without any of us forgetting what our institutional responsibility is, because we actually have it all, those who rule and those who do not. And it must also be said that negligence, errors of assessment or evaluation, clumsiness or even political intentions that may exist in judicial decisions, have their own mechanism of judicial reproach. If there is no complaint, appeal or any other measure of challenge against any decision of a court, legitimate discrepancies may always be exposed. But what can never be done, and that is where the limit is, is to question the very function of the courts. So to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, in this strange motion we are debating, which we will see how it turns out, the Socialists prefer to remain with an express repetition of principles and an appeal also expresses to this Government, ad caution, in case it is tempted, or someone might think it is tempted, to disregard judicial decisions by whatever means, even with the help or through spokesmen. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to vote on this compromise amendment which we have signed with the People's Group and with UPyD. I believe that this amendment makes an express appeal, as I say, to each and every one of us, to each and every one of the members of the institutions. He makes an express mention of respect, of the ethical codes not only of the government, but of the ethical codes of operation of all of us, that we are citizens who work in politics. Therefore, regardless of whether there are two groups that have not voted on this amendment, I understand that it is perfectly acceptable to all of them and I call for the express support of the rest of the groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u19	Thank you, President. Mrs Garrido proposed to us to urge the Basque Government to respect the functioning of our rule of law and not to interfere in the performance of the judiciary through demonstrations that could discredit and pressure the action of justice. In particular, the People's Group refers to statements made by certain representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government concerning the proceedings of the justice system in the case of De Miguel. And the truth is that this matter was already discussed about a month and a half ago, when another member of the Group of the European People's Party, in this case Mr Carmelo Barrio, presented a motion calling on the Basque Government to "make a report at the time of the current session on the extent to which the recommendations addressed to the Executive contained in the opinion of the special commission of inquiry into alleged irregularities in the Departments of Culture and Industry", etc. The truth is that when this matter was discussed, we already made a complete amendment, in which we proposed that this Parliament reject "the unacceptable statements of leading political and institutional representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party against the proceedings of the justice in the case of De Miguel, statements made with the sole and undemocratic purpose of pressuring and conditioning such judicial proceedings". We therefore wanted to talk, discuss and agree on this issue a month and a half ago. But the truth is that the rest of the groups, especially the Group of the European People's Party, preferred to postpone this debate and thus provoke parliamentary duplicity. As a result of that decision we are talking today about something that could have been talked about a month and a half ago, as I have repeatedly explained in that debate. I said in that case that the motion put forward by Mr Barrio was fine, "but it is clearly insufficient in our opinion, says little and does not contribute too much," I said. And I think that this is little knowing what we know today, knowing what has happened or some things that have happened, and having also known and having heard some absolutely regrettable and unacceptable statements made by high-ranking leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party on this issue. We therefore wanted to include this issue in that compromise amendment on that occasion, so that we did not have to repeat further discussions, as is happening today. And that's what I was asking at the time. I said, "What are we going to postpone discussions for? This Parliament must have sufficient agility to be able to discuss matters of full relevance, and the statements made by high-ranking leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party trying to condition justice are absolutely entrepreneurship." They had already occurred and there was already a chance to discuss and agree and vote on the issue. However, this was not intended to be the case and I was finally invited to present a new initiative on that particular issue. Finally, it was the People's Group that made an inquiry into this motion. The truth is that the statements made by high-ranking leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party, namely Mr Ortuzar and Mr Egibar, seem to us to be absolutely entrepreneurshipable, absolutely regrettable. And indeed, as has been said here, they had no other purpose than to defend their own and interfere with justice, also to condition judicial proceedings. And this is something that was evident in those days and weeks. The Basque Nationalist Party instead of saying that certain behaviors are absolutely unacceptable and must be banished from political life, instead of sending a strong message against political corruption, against corruption, against friendship, what the Basque Nationalist Party did is criticise the action of justice. And this is certainly an absolutely unfortunate thing. And indeed, on that occasion Mr Barrio gave me the reason. He was telling me that yes, that it is true, but that it was better to discuss only this later, and here we are discussing the issue a month and a half later. What do I want to insist on? I wanted to tell the members of the Basque Nationalist Party – although this also applies to the rest of the political groups, this also applies to the rest of the political parties – that it is not the same to say, for example, "we respect the judicial decisions and want the facts investigated to be clarified, that if they are true they deserve all our contempt", it is not the same to say that "the Basque Nationalist Party has been mistreated, scrutinized and criticized for this issue for five years", or to say that there is "a clear manipulation and distortion to damage the image of the Basque Nationalist Party", or that "we do not understand the interest of throwing stones against the Basque roof". Indeed, it is not the same and in both ways the presumption of innocence of the investigated or accused can obviously be defended. We prefer the first option: to criticize certain behaviors, even if they are supposed to be, to criticize them, to be forceful in relation to these behaviors, and, if desired, to bear the flag of the presumption of innocence. However, I say that the Basque Nationalist Party preferred to do what other political parties have been doing for years, that it is in the area of justice that certain members of those political parties are being investigated or accused of certain unlawful, illegal conduct, or accused of certain corrupt conduct, which most political parties have been doing for many years in Euskadi and Spain is attacking justice, attacking and trying to condition it. And this is behavior that must be banished from political life. And certainly the Basque Nationalist Party has been characterized by carrying out such actions, by making those criticisms of justice, by trying to condition it. But he wasn't the only one. Other political parties have behaved similarly. As soon as justice has investigated certain members of the People's Party, or of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, or of other political parties, what they have been saying, what they have tried to do is to question the performance of justice and protect their own public or non-public positions accused. And this is something that must be banished from political action, from Basque and Spanish political life. Respecting, therefore, judicial proceedings, obeying judicial decisions – one can criticise, of course, but always from the utmost respect – and, above all, what must be affected is the delegitimization of these behaviours, which are absolutely unacceptable. Criticizing them always, not when they are behaviours for which members of other political parties are accused, but also when they are accused of members of the political parties themselves. Always. And this is something that has not actually been done. I therefore say that this is the usual course of action for most political parties. However, there is still more, all of you have spoken or are going to talk about the independence of the judiciary. However, justice in Spain is deeply politicized, justice in Spain is not fully independent, it is politicized; moreover, it is colonized by the main political parties of this country. And so, we can see how the members of the General Council of the Judiciary are elected, for example. And on this issue no one has said anything and no one wants to change the form of election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. We did not want to put it as an item to be included in that compromise amendment, because we knew that they would not accept the rest of the political parties, but we do, however, consider it to be an absolutely essential matter. In Spain, justice is absolutely politicized and not independent, because the majority parties want it to be, and they have not moved a finger to professionalize it, depoliticize it and guarantee its independence. The majority parties continue to split their seats according to their respective quotas, thus consolidating the contempt of the governing body of the judges, of the General Council of the Judiciary. There is no country in our environment in which the appointment of the governing body of judges corresponds exclusively to Parliament. Therefore, this should also be corrected and changed. Not to mention the performance of the Office of the Prosecutor, which on too many occasions has acted or acted as defence counsel for the accused, depending on who the person under investigation is. Therefore, I conclude, it is a matter of doing everything possible to combat political corruption, corruption, amigoism and plug-in. This is because when these types of behaviors come to light, we prioritize their delegitimization, which, by the way, is not contradictory to defending the presumption of innocence of those investigated. And finally, it is about guaranteeing through the established legal mechanisms, the necessary reforms, the independence of justice from political power, because without it, without truly independent justice, there is no full democracy. And today in Spain justice is deeply politicized. That too must be changed. It is not enough to criticize, therefore, the Basque Nationalist Party, it is not enough to criticize other political parties. This too needs to be changed. And the political parties have certainly not wanted and still do not want to carry it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u20	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Lopez de Munin, the representative of the EH team, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u21	Egun where you're going. It is curious to see a request for the separation of powers in a State where the politicization of justice takes place from the moment the main judicial institutions are formed by political chambers and cliques. It is questionable whether a commitment is required from the Government on issues such as corruption and not the same with political cases, with the abduction of young Basques by the local or foreign police, or with the imprisonment for political motives of Basque political activists. We wish to open two fields for discussion; for justice is plain to have many faces, and it is a mistake to proceed into dispute by speaking of the only side of justice. In justice there are two deserts which we set to-day on the table: social and political. There are two areas of justice that we are putting on the table today: social and political. Political corruption, mismanagement of the public, clientelism, misappropriation, are crimes caused by the excesses of political power and those who, by holding positions of political representation, make the institutions their own court or their own baserri. Many other cases in which such excesses are evident are not even punishable at the legal level, since the same ones that are tried are those that have created laws that allow them to make and undo their will. According to the RAE, "to do justice" means "to work in reason with him or treat him according to his merit, without attending to another reason, especially when there is competition and dispute." Here lies part of the fundamental problem that should be addressed today, and it is that the search for justice, according to Rousseau, must be on equal footing in the laws. Rousseau thought that higher standards should be created in such a way that they are equal before all and do not benefit certain sectors or that they are unfair. To this end, he advocated a real democratic system. And it's just, how are we not going to be able to denounce from the citizenry the injustice of the laws? How are we not going to be able to point the finger at them when they unload the worker and leave bankers and corrupt people on the street? How are we not going to denounce the inequality in penalties in the enforcement of laws? How are we not going to question a judicial model inherited from fascism and therefore absolutely elitist, unjust, anti-democratic and extemporary? This is the accusation which we make, and which we always will do: justice favors the powerful, it protects them, but it chastitys the poor. That justice that defends corruption and penalizes social protest, that unjust justice based on the legality created to perpetuate a system of social and economic inequalities. On the other hand, there is a clear and obvious politicization of justice and that no one, apart from EH Bildu denounces. The politicization of justice, its use as a tool for political punishment against all those people who, by their way of thinking today, continue to be imprisoned in Spanish state prisons. Young and not so young are taken out of their homes and brought before a justice that violates their rights, allows torture and buryes them alive for years or decades. And I repeat, his only demonstrable crime has been to do politics, and that is how he emerges from judicial proceedings. But I don't want the discussion today. For in this Chamber there have been several times debated on this subject, and each one of you has published your point of view, in order to accuse the Intromissions of justice in politics, that there are exceptions to accuse, but by the protection of others appearing in favor of these tribunals, and of continuing to act unjustly and criminally. Today the debate will focus on the first of which I have spoken, on justice of a more social nature. And I will tell you that at least from my group we will continue to insist that judges be as belligerent as possible with all cases of political corruption, with all cases of clientelism, abandonment of their functions and all that implies that citizens continue to be robbed. We will continue to go where the prosecutor, if the Basque Government does not do its work in defence of patents paid with public money. We will go to the prosecutor, if necessary, to give him information that comes to us about other cases of corruption and we will require him to do his job, to be vehemently with the culprits and to try to know and bring to light the whole truth. And you know why? Because we don't believe in the false unions. These commissions are of no use, because they don't determine cares and care. We don't believe it because you don't let us believe it. We do not believe, because you do not allow us to believe, in a system of public control that does not allow any control to be carried out in Parliament and in which both hide their shames. Citizenship wants to know, we want to know too. We have a right to know and those who committed corruption have a duty to pay for it. Obviously, when we go to court to report these crimes against the public administration, we do not go to a Justice Administration that we approved from EH Bildu. We go to the one we have, it's not the one we want or the one we like. But we have no other who defends us from those crimes, who bring us truth and reparation. We bet on a justice of our own, with judges and natural judges of Euskal Herria, close to the reality of our people and that they base their decisions on the interpretation of the social reality of the time in which they are to be applied, fundamentally according to the spirit and purpose of those. The latter should also be required of all judges, all of you, as it is part of the Spanish Civil Code. I shall now read to you what has been our amendment, called sectarianism, quite the opposite of what we believe from the EH Bildu group. We believe that it should be an amendment defended at least by all the groups that call themselves Basques. And it is that Parliament urges the Government "to promote and defend a Basque, non-politicized public justice system, composed of natural judges of contrasted attachment to Euskal Herria and its citizens, and that, according to values such as equity, social justice and respect for and protection of the rights and freedoms of all citizens, it interpret the rules according to the reality of the times when they must be applied". Robespierre wondered: "How long will the wrath of the despots be called justice and the justice of the barbaric people or rebellion?". I wonder about it today. When the problem should not lie in the questioning of the judicial system and indeed in the unjust laws, which perpetuate a system of social and economic inequality and which defends the powerful against the people, you do not want to go into the background of the debate and distort it by talking about the separation of powers. We and we will criticize judicial decisions that are not fair to the people, we will criticize judicial decisions that benefit corrupt rulers like those of the People's Party in the Spanish State, we will criticize judges for whom equality before the law depends on the power of the defendant, we will criticize anything that is not really fair. But of course we will also go to justice to demand, demand and give you all the information that comes into our hands about all the cases of corruption that we detect. We have done so and we will continue to do so until justice and law finally represent an equal and free democracy for all and for all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u22	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Madame Arriguega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u23	Egun where you're going. The truth is that many things have been said and there is a proposal for a compromise amendment between some groups. But I would like to refer first of all to the initiative of the People's Party, which the People's Party presented in this House, which comes to say that "this Parliament urges the Government to respect the functioning of our rule of law and, consequently, not to interfere in the performance of the judiciary through demonstrations that can discredit and pressure the action of justice". I have to say that, in fact, the initiative, the original motion, was even more interesting, because it contained a few words that were later suppressed and that urged the Government, and also the party that supports it, to all this which I have read. For starters somewhere, I'd like to start with the concept of the rule of law. Because I have always drawn attention to the narrow and restrictive sense that this concept has been having in the political discourses of many Members of this House. In those of the People's Party many times, but not only in those of the People's Party, also in the speeches of the UPyD parliamentarian and sometimes in the speeches of the Socialist Party parliamentarian. I have done the little work of reading a few parliamentary debates in which the rule of law has been discussed, and it really draws my attention to the fact that almost every time they invoke the rule of law they do so in a police or judicial context, which almost always mention it as synonymous with something like the rule of law or the use of the coercive force of the State, and basically in that context. I believe that the rule of law as a concept really does not deserve such restrictive application in political discourse. I have said this, I find it striking and, moreover, even gives me some concern. Because I don't know if that sounds like what they say about the weak or formal sense of the rule of law. "The weak perception of the rule of law is that any measure or action must be subject to a strict legal norm previously adopted." It is one of the definitions used by the rule of law. For example, we saw the Hungarian Prime Minister a few days ago argue that Hungary has a rule of law and therefore claims for itself the possibility of legislation on the re-enforcement of the death penalty, even though it contravenes the principles of the European Union. And it caught my attention to see him invoke the concept of the rule of law. I have to say that that is not the concept of the rule of law that we like best. We, of course, prefer what has been called the strong or substantive acceptance of the rule of law and, therefore, we have tabled the amendment that we have tabled, simple and, in our view, obvious, but for us, I do not know if for all. The correction which we present, says: "The law of Europe indicates that a well-ordered state of justice ought to protect all the essential rights and liberties of all men. We believe in this vast desolation, and if we use the concept the lawified, we would use it in this sense which I have just read. What I mean is, I don't know is how Mrs. Popular Party or Garrido understands, how do you understand your legal reputation? I'd like to ask you a question. I read again the first section of the Constitution of yours yesterday, and I would like to ask you whether you, the first section of your Constitution, have been read in the course of a long time, by the Pontulacian party, the first section of your Constitution, because it says: "Spain is constituted in a social and democratic state governed by law, which advocates freedom as the highest values of its legal system", important, "justice, equality and political pluralism". And I wonder why the People's Party talks so much about the rule of law and systematically forgets the qualifications that its own Spanish Constitution gives to that state of law, that is, social and democratic. The fact is, Mrs Garrido, that you made an interpelation, that the chief physician Erkorea answered you, and that, after receiving the reply from the chief physician of the Erkora, we have not yet been able to understand the motion derived from the interpelation. How long, 4 or 5 months have we seen in the middle of Mr. Rajoy's government, which I think I remember is from the People's Party, criticizing, and in what way, the judges of the Supreme Court, nothing more and nothing less, and the judges of the National Court, there remains that, criticizing them in such a way that they came to the General Council of the Judiciary to seek amparo? How many months ago did this happen? And who were they? A certain Soraya Sáez de Santamaría, a certain Catalá, a certain Jorge Fernández, no, of the People's Party? Perhaps it should have been the People's Group in the Congress of Deputies that presented an initiative such as that which brings us here today, urging the Government of the State to respect the functioning of its rule of law and not to interfere in the performance of the judiciary. It wouldn't have been bad. He should have done so and by the way have taken the opportunity to recall the two qualifying adjectives of his constitutional rule of law, which is social and democratic. Nor would it have been wrong if it had done so, if not for the People's Group, for the Socialist Group or for UPyD. Did they? Well, I don't think, I don't think they've alluded to that. On the contrary, what happened is, as I said, that they all applied to the CGPJ for protection and the CGPJ denied it. Man, we could also recall in this regard that the General Council of the Judiciary elects it half-way through Congress and the Senate, that the President of the General Council of the Judiciary is the President of the Supreme Court, etc. Evidently, it is a sign of the separation of powers also that Soraya Sáez de Santamaría put the cry in the sky for the release of Santiago Arróspide and that a few days later he is stopped again. Another show of respect for the separation of powers: that Alicia Sánchez Camacho of the People's Party, if I remember correctly, announced the prosecution's complaint against Mas, for having committed the most serious crime of convening a consultation. In fact, the examples of "respect" for the principle of separation of powers in the Spanish State are legion, those of the judicialization of politics as many, those of the politicization of justice as many. I know, for one comment, that I have taken the lehendakari Ibarretxe to the bench, for example. The express prohibition of something as undemocratic as consulting people, for example. The ruling of the Constitutional Court if I am not mistaken last January in which it annuls a simple declaratory act of the Catalan Parliament for the very serious crime of the wrong majesty of having declared the right to the sovereignty of the Catalan people and their right to decide for example. Not to mention many other examples of "respect" for the rule of law in its most material and profound sense. For example, a few days ago we saw Izaskun Bilbao, a Europarliamentarian, reminding the Council of Europe or the European Commission, I do not remember, to see what it means that since 2010 the Spanish State has had five convictions for not having investigated allegations of torture. What do I know, or the one that nullified the Parot doctrine, etc. It all depends on how the rule of law is understood. And by the way, by the way, neither the lehendakari nor any member of his Government has exercised any interference of anything in any judicial function. What Mr. Egibar or Mr. Ortuzar said in his day, what his Constitution calls the basic right to freedom of expression, has no greater relevance than what may be the mere political discourse. This Parliament should not become a censor of the statements of the political representatives of this people. None of the statements you have made in such a theatrical manner have led any judge or judge in any court to seek amparo from any General Council of the Judiciary. And as I said the other day right here, in addition to what Mr Egibar said for example and which apparently causes you so much scandal, in my view it is pure postureo, this initiative is postureo like so many others who are brought to this House; for what Mr Egibar said in my view it has many facets of verifiability. In fact, Mrs Garrido, take the job of comparing many and many pages of the famous document you are talking about with the parliamentary opinion, which we are all studying in depth before we vote on it, I have no doubt, and to see if you find in the judicial document where the "presumptive" which you did not consider fit to introduce in your opinion. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing on the answers, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u25	Thank you, Madam President. The truth is that Mrs. Arrizabalaga has once again erred. I was going to say what is usually said, but obviously what we've been through on this earth I don't think it would be the right thing to say. But I think she has been quite unfortunate in the approach of her debate. Look, what is evident after his intervention, apart from corroborating what we already know, his absolutely sectarian and partisan discourse, is an absolutely partisan view of what the rule of law is. That rule of law that also protects you. That rule of law which also safeguards the presumption of innocence of persons who are being prosecuted, who have been charged, who have been brought to justice when it also affects you. It is that rule of law that has guarantees, guarantees that protect us all, because that is the rule of law. You say that we have brought into this Parliament too many times the debates on the rule of law and in a sense. If it is that unfortunately on this earth, and also for the abandonment of many political leaders with responsibilities of government as the Basque Nationalist Party has been, and for a certain connivance many times with many approaches that the Abertzale left has also raised and many debates in this House – here are the joint votes – other parties – and among them the People's Party and also other parties represented in this House throughout the life of this Parliament – we have had to bring in initiatives here to defend the rule of law. That rule of law that you have on too many occasions... And it is surprising that a party of the democratic trajectory of the Basque Nationalist Party has done so, because it is surprising. That is why we are very surprised by the statements made by their leaders, because there are criticisms and criticisms, and their criticisms always seek the same objective. And their criticisms always come on purpose when they are judicial decisions and actions of the judiciary that they do not like and when there are always cases that affect people and leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party. Here come the criticisms of the Basque Nationalist Party with a very specific object and objective: to discredit, to undermine, to despise, to attack the judiciary. That is why we have had to bring debates here to highlight what the rule of law is, because on too many occasions you have supported speeches that have come to attack that rule of law, which, by the way, also protects you and also protects the defendants who may be in your parties or the people who may be prosecuted who have held relevant positions in the Basque Nationalist Party. As much as it bothers them. For here justice is for all, that is the guarantee of a rule of law, that justice is equal for all. And it can also affect cases of corruption that may affect the Basque Nationalist Party. And what do we want you to say? Well, he's sitting down. Then do things differently. What do you want me to say to you, that relevant people of the Basque Nationalist Party may be accused and that the oral trial, in the case of De Miguel, will be opened with people who have had responsibilities and linked to the Basque Nationalist Party? For people who have been linked, who are people who have also belonged to other parties and also to my party, will have to be judged as they are being judged. It's just that democracy, the rule of law, is like that. I therefore repeat to you, an absolutely partisan, sectarian view that what is politics, what is the rule of law, what is the conception of a country. It's just that you come back to this rostrum again today and you think that the country is yours, that you can control the judges, that you can say what you want here. No, you can't say what you want! That Euskadi is plural and that in Euskadi you are as we are also others and with the same legitimacy! Because the Basque Nationalist Party seems to want to appropriate everything. That is why I believe that the EBB's tentacles want to extend them to influence the rulings of the courts. Well, no! And sometimes, of course, there are court decisions that they won't like and will have to endure. It's just that this is coming up. It is just that Mr Egibar quickly said and attacked the judge, because he went to attack the investigating judge by pointing out that he had limited himself to copying 80% of the conclusions approved by the Basque Parliament's committee of inquiry. It is that Mr Egibar and the leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party and of this Government should have been concerned to see clearly the good work that had been done in a commission of inquiry and indeed, that the judge finally comes to the same conclusion as the Basque Parliament. No, they come to the opposite conclusion, what a coincidence. Well, the world upside down. But it is clear that we here today, with the agreement we have reached, remind this Government of the basic premises of what is the functioning of the rule of law, which seems to be forgotten, not only by the Government, but by the party that supports the Government. And I'm going to tell EH Collector, and I'm going to end, we're not going to talk to those who don't yet respect the basic principles of democracy and haven't condemned terrorism.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u26	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mrs. Gallastegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u27	Thank you, President, again. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, again. Indeed, as we had already suspected, the debate has been escapist and has passed through tangential paths, which in this case go tortically away from the core of the issue and the subject of the debate, and go from the politicization of ordinary justice – we all know what ordinary justice is, I am not talking about the Constitutional Court, I am talking about investigating judges – to the metaphysical and meta-legal conception of the rule of law, which is nothing. But in any case, ladies and gentlemen, what has become clear is that I believe that we all agree, although we do not like to acknowledge, that the institutional representatives, but above all the governments and representatives of the parties that support the Government, for their greater responsibility towards the citizenry, must respect the proceedings not only judicial, but also of the other public bodies and institutions. Mrs. Garrido was right. You can't say what comes out of one's mouth, you can't say what you want, you can't. That's not freedom of expression. And if we want to dignify politics, we want citizens not to treat us and they can tell us what they want, what they can do, the first thing we have to do is respect each of the institutions in which we do not participate and respect each of the representatives with whom we do not share everything. And that's the only way to at least be a lot more credible than we are, which is good for us. And I understand that the government or the party that supports it would have lacked a little humility and recognized that it was wrong. Because the discrepancy is perfectly legitimate, but to disregard the attitude in the activity or in the exercise of its functions of any other non-political representative but also of any other of the powers of the State, is to underestimate and also to discredit the very activity of the one who does it. The problem is, we all think we're right. And it does seem to be so, because reason must be what is best and most distributed in this world, everyone is convinced that they have it. But since we do not resolve and begin to understand that the reason of some does not have to be contrary to the reason of others and in the end let us recognize that it is much better sometimes quiet than saying nonsense, we will get absolutely nothing. I believe that the compromise amendment that we have signed calls for each and every political, institutional and government representative to do so, because he signed an ethical code and we understand that his party also does so, and that we all end up doing something to celebrate not only our own work, but our own political, social reality, etc. That's what all the citizens expect besides us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u29	Thank you, President. It's obvious that no one here is going to recognize anything at all. And of course the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist group will not recognize anything at all either, it will continue to defend, as it has done, the absolutely unacceptable statements of Mr Egibar and Mr Ortuzar. It seems to me that you criticise certain statements made by senior representatives of the Spanish Government, or that you criticise the statements made by senior representatives of the Spanish People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, who criticise what they have been doing in recent times and denounce that they have also tried to condition the action of justice. I think that is correct, but after criticizing those statements, after criticizing those behaviors, what you have said is that the statements made by Mr Ortuzar and Mr Egibar on this issue are perfectly reasonable. Therefore, again we are with the same thing, we defend our own in the light of our own interests. That is the issue that needs to be corrected. Therefore, if you find certain statements by other political representatives unacceptable, by common logic and common sense, what you have to say is that the statements made by Mr Ortuzar and Mr Egibar trying to condition the action of justice and, above all, defending the members of your own party who are being investigated by the action of justice were also unacceptable. Therefore, I insist, what you, what the Basque Nationalist Party and what the Government should have said is that these supposed behaviors are absolutely unacceptable, and that you are going to pursue them, and that you are going to end them. And then they can, of course, defend the presumption of innocence, but what they must have done first is that these behaviors are unacceptable, and they must have said that they are going to pursue these behaviors and that corruption, plugging, corrupting, friendship, all that must be banished. And that's what the Basque Nationalist Party didn't do. Quite the opposite. We are facing a case of alleged illegal attitudes and actions and political corruption. And in the face of that, what the Basque Nationalist Party did is attack justice. He said that judicial guarantees have not been guaranteed or protected, attacked Álava's chief prosecutor, spoke of manipulation, said there was an electoral interest in pursuing the Basque Nationalist Party. All this is what they said, which has been mistreated, scrutinized and criticized by the Basque Nationalist Party for five years, that there is an obvious manipulation and distortion to damage the image of the Basque Nationalist Party. All this is what Mr Egibar and Mr Ortuzar said, as you yourself have acknowledged. But instead of criticizing those statements, what follows is "no, if they are perfectly reasonable statements." How are they going to be absolutely reasonable statements? If you had made them any member of any other political party, you would have criticized them and, indeed, rightly so, because this has been the way both the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and the People's Party have been acting. As members of these political parties have been investigated for cases of political corruption, what they have been doing repeatedly and has caused real disgust to Spanish society is that they have preferred to protect their own and attack justice. This is not an exclusive behaviour, which concerns only the Basque Nationalist Party, it has been practiced by other political parties and that is what I have come to denounce. We have always respected the action of justice. That's right, we have taken political and judicial initiatives to pursue the corrupt, that's something we've been dedicated to for many years. By the way, eight years of life of UPyD, zero corrupt, zero accused of political corruption, zero investigated for political corruption. That's the luggage. We, therefore, have not had to defend any of our members against the action of justice. But you have repeatedly done so, and not just the Basque Nationalist Party, but also the rest of the political parties, and it would be good for you to recognize it, because if the statements of certain members of the PSOE and the PP are unacceptable, the statements of Mr Egibar and Mr Ortuzar are also unacceptable. And, indeed, we must pursue these behaviours, and we must denounce these statements, and we must put in place measures of legal and all kinds of reforms to depoliticize justice, something that no one has, of course, commented on in this debate, despite the fact that I have spoken about the issue in the first intervention. Politics in Spain, justice in Spain is politicized. The General Council of the Judiciary is occupied by the main political parties, which should also be changed. And you repeatedly, too, the Basque Nationalist Party, have permanently refused to take your hands off that body. Therefore, behave yourselves, respect justice, delegitimize corrupt people, pursue corruption, and take your hands also from justice, and in particular from the General Council of the Judiciary. This is what should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u30	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The representative of the EH team, Mr. Lopez de Munin, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u31	For some of us, democracy is not simply a figure on an altar to be venerated. Democracy must be exercised and that is what gives it virtuality, that is what gives it reality, that is what citizenship demands, not just an empty word, which is what it is for the People's Party. If democracy has to be defended only from the judiciary, there is a real problem in that State. Whether you defend democracy or the only defence of democracy can come from the judiciary, it says a lot about what the democratic character of the Spanish State is and it also says a lot about what the democratic character of the People's Party is. You said justice is the same for all. It is not true, justice is not the same for all and all in the Spanish State. Again, there is a justice that is not the same for the powerful as for the poor, a justice that is not the same for their politicians and for the rest of the politicians, and a justice that is not the same for their corrupt, for the rest of the corrupt of their friendly parties and for the people of the power circle of the People's Party, of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. That justice, on the other hand, is the same as through political, purely political, emergency courts, incarceration and abduction of Basque political activists. That justice is the one that does not allow democracy to advance in the Spanish State. That justice is the one you manipulate, it is the one you parasitize, it is the one you push and it is the one that is pointed out from Europe as a shame, as something to end it, with those examples of legal manipulation. And it is that you say "the separation of powers in the Spanish State should defend it and it is an example". Spanish state in separation of powers is at the same time Iran – data – behind Egypt, Kenya, India and People's China as well. By this, setting an example of the separation of powers of the Spanish State is not only shameful, but it is pure lies, pure panduleus. You leave justice behind. Mr Maneiro should not have listened to me before, but I believe that the criticism of the politicization of justice that I made in my first speech has been quite clear and the complaint has been quite forceful. And now, moving on to the other topic, that is to say, to the topic we were dealing with today. The spokesman for the Basque Nationalist Party said that this Parliament should not be a censor of the statements of the political representatives. Evidently, none. But when the same or the representatives of the Government come out to criticize the statements we make, which have been made by other political representatives of Parliament, neither. I understand that you should not be a censor, nor should your views censor what is said here or try to censor it. It was also said that Mr. Egibar's or Mr. Erkoreka's criticism of the court order was not good or had not been received. I agree, I do not think that these are criticisms that can be allowed or that can be accepted, especially when they have been through parliamentary agreements, through an analysis, an audit of what happened, as could be the case of Miguel or as could be the case of Epsilon-Hiriko, it was parliamentary agreements that defined a series of conclusions, which were voted by the majority of this Parliament. And those conclusions were also politically questionable. This is already one more derivative, is to go out and question absolutely everything. It is to question the decisions of this Parliament, it is to question the ordinary justice itself, which, whether we want it or not, is the only one we can turn to in cases of corruption and which we will turn to and continue to turn to from Euskal Herria Bildu and it is the only one we have. While these are statements that are absolutely out of place and that we do not share, we believe that today's debate should have revolved around other issues. And we will also say, in conclusion, that a State that is said to be of law and social and democratic, in that State Mr Rajoy and all the members of his Government should be condemned for social crimes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u32	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Mrs. Arriganaga, the Eubertarian, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u33	Caixo berriz was. I would like to highlight the dichotomy expressed by the representative of EH Bildu in his assessment of what is the judicial system or justice. It seemed quite enlightening to me, and I suppose on the line of some criticism I made in some previous debate. You either say terrible things or say it against justice in the case of this justice against the patriot on the left. On the other hand, you yourself have declared your taste for this justice. Hobby for what? I answer my question: To lead your obsession. A little recommendation besides me. Look at this obsession and do self-critic, please. You said I've said before that this Chamber shouldn't have a censor or a censor, and I agree with myself again. What I didn't understand is what you were talking about. The political discussion is one thing, the criticism is one thing, and the other is something similar to this proposition which Poptular Party has brought us to-day. Two different things. The spokesman for the Socialist Party, Mrs Gallastegui, has spoken of metaphysics and so on. Since, frankly, it is a proper word, it is something similar to what I thought was the compromise amendment, which, if I am not mistaken, was signed on the proposal of the Socialist Party itself. Because if it is not metaphysical, at least we are going to talk about that they are indeterminate legal concepts, among other things, as obvious, and that of course there is some phrase that seeks or expresses a claim to stifle other people's opinion that I don't legally know if it is metaphysical, but really difficult to interpret or apply if it is. When someone says "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to strengthen the principles of action set out in the Code of Ethics concerning institutional and personal respect, so that the opinion cannot be understood as insult or disqualification", I do not know whether it refers to conditioning the persons concerned by that Code of Ethics in their ways of expression, which is difficult, or whether it is referring to conditioning the way in which those words can be interpreted by other persons other than those concerned by the Code of Ethics itself. What I want to say is that, earlier I said it and I repeat it again, and this I say to Mrs Garrido, of the People's Party, seems to me to be an initiative of political and frivolous postureum. It is to take such a basic and important concept, I would not say that metaphysical, like that of the rule of law as an excuse to bring to this House and renew the recurring issue that interests them from time to time – and let us not forget that the interpellation occurred before the municipal elections – of the alleged cases of corruption. That's what they want, the dish they want to keep dancing on the circus floor. And that's why they're frivolous with concepts that are far more serious than all that. And it's not that I said that the members of the People's Party or Rajoy's government this and that, no. I said that the judges and magistrates themselves applied for amparo on account of those criticisms. And perhaps what I'm saying is that the People's Party, Mrs. Laura Garrido, sees the straw in the eye of others and does not see the beam in itself, because Mr. Erkoreka has already reminded you of all these issues in that parliamentary intervention. As regards the good work that was done in the committee of inquiry, I have already mentioned this on the previous occasion. I doubted from the outset that that was a good job, I was a member of that committee of inquiry. I didn't remember, but I was reminded that the work of the commission of inquiry must have been so good that it coincided, that it must be metaphysical or cosmic, with the conclusions of the judicial court and the subject of the legal experts we were. And then, about the leaving of the Basque Nationalist Party and the certain connivance with the abertzale left to which the spokesman of the People's Group has mentioned, I think he has just said it by saying something. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Third point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced by Gorka Maniroy's Misto-UPyD members, the model of state which the President defends for the whole of Spain. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u35	Thank you very much. The truth is that Mr Lehendakari came here a few weeks ago to say something like that Mr Rajoy's legislature had been a waste of time to reform the state. And I was surprised, because I agreed on this case with Mr. lehendakari. I believe, indeed, that a constitutional reform is needed to reform the State, to make it more viable, to ensure that there is more equality, more solidarity and ultimately to defend the interests of all citizens. I know, of course, that Mr Lehendakari does not intend to achieve these objectives, but to defend his own interests as a nationalist. But I agree that a constitutional reform must be carried out as soon as possible in order to reform, modernize and update and update the State. And that is what we have pointed out and included in this motion that we have registered. Let us say that this motion captures the essence of what UPyD believes should be done in the coming months, in the coming times, to achieve those goals. It's obviously not going to be easy. Obviously, we are faced with a far-reaching political change. Obviously in the coming months we are going to have a Congress of Deputies with many different political forces and that, therefore, it will be very difficult to reach the necessary agreements to proceed with these reforms. But I believe that they must be carried out, with the maximum consensus, with the participation of the largest number of political parties. But I believe that it must be done and I humbly believe that it will finally be done, because it is essential to make the present state a viable, more effective state that serves to better serve all Spanish citizens. And in that motion we have taken up, although it could have been much more extensive, the fundamental thing that must be done in our opinion. That is why we propose that this Parliament urge "the Congress of Deputies and the Government of Spain to push through the established legal procedures", as it could not otherwise be, "all the legal and constitutional reforms that are necessary in order to promote a symmetrical and solidarity federal state made up of autonomous communities all with the same competences, clarify and close the distribution of competences between state, autonomous communities and local authorities, assume a number of exclusive and non-transferable competences in key matters and abolish all those fiscal or financial privileges now existing. All this", because this is a fundamental objective, "to ensure the viability of the State and the equality and well-being of all citizens". And we propose that this Parliament remember that "any decision on the territorial model of the State and the Constitution itself corresponds", as we know and as it could not be otherwise, "to all Spanish citizens and must be carried out", obviously, "through established legal procedures". I, therefore, have not come on this occasion to criticise Basque nationalism, I have not come to criticise what its objectives are. It is legitimate for each political party to try to achieve its own objectives, which each political party believes should be done, in Euskadi or in Spain as a whole. What I intend to do here is to point out what should be done, in the opinion of UPyD, to benefit all Spanish citizens. Each political party will have its proposal, will have its model, will have its aspirations, will have its objectives. We point out here, and I will proceed to explain, what we believe should be done. It is difficult to carry out these reforms, but I believe that the art of politics should be to make what is necessary possible. And all these measures that I am going to propose, I think, are necessary. By the way, more and more people are talking about them and this is interesting. Six years ago I defended here things as supposedly foolish as the suppression of the economic concert, as the suppression of the general councils of the historical territories, as the suppression of the provincial and also of the outlaws, as the merger of municipalities. I have been here for six years defending the reform of the Spanish Constitution. And I have to say that in recent times there are more and more citizens, more and more people are talking about these issues. And this is good, that there are more and more people, that there are more and more political parties defending these issues. Today, it is no longer rare to talk in Euskadi about the need to guarantee maximum equality for all Basque citizens. Today in Euskadi it is no longer rare to talk about trying to achieve the same taxation for all Basque citizens. Today in Euskadi it is not even rare to speak and propose the merger of municipalities or the abolition of outlaws. It's a supposedly minority position, right, but it's not uncommon, because UPyD has already been here giving a whirlwind about these issues, and it seems that these debates are opening up in both Euskadi and Spain. And I think what a political party should try to do is that certain initiatives, which I think are good, can go ahead and have more and more support. Therefore, according to UPyD these would be the legal changes and measures to be taken to modernise Spain, to reduce the existing triplicities or duplications, to end inefficiencies and unnecessary unnecessary expenditure; to guarantee more equality and more solidarity; to make the State and all public administrations more viable and efficient and to make a more efficient and rational use of public money; to allocate it preferentially to the whole of society; to guarantee more and better education, more and better health, to allocate it to R & D+i, to allocate it to truly productive investments, to allocate it to social spending, to allocate it to dependence, to allocate it to job creation, that is, to meet the real needs of citizens. Public money cannot be used to support institutions that are absolutely unnecessary or to keep entities duplicated and tripled that cost us an eye on the face. Public money cannot be used to carry out investments that are not at all necessary and much less productive. Public money cannot be used to promote or protect things like professional sport. It should be devoted to what is really important. And I think that these reforms are absolutely essential. We must reform the model of State, we must reform the Spanish Constitution, we must achieve a symmetrical and solidarity-based federal state, made up of autonomous communities, certainly less than or without doubt less than existing ones, and all of them with the same competences. We must have four institutional levels: Europe, the Government of Spain, autonomous communities and municipalities. We need to redistribute and clarify competences so that there are not as many competing conflicts as there are today. We believe that education and health should be the competence of the State, obviously managed by the autonomous communities. We have to abolish the provincial parliaments, this would mean an annual saving of more than EUR 6 billion – it is well studied – of more than EUR 6 billion. Provincial parliaments are absolutely anti-democratic bodies or institutions, because there is no direct choice. They've become placement agencies. They are extraordinarily expensive and would also cease to be necessary if the merger procedure of municipalities were to be carried out. And that's similar in relation to the outlaws. We also believe that they are unnecessary and expensive and that there should be a different distribution of competences, where the merged municipalities would also have to have many competences. The merger of municipalities must therefore also take place. There are over 8,000 municipalities in Spain and 251 in Euskadi. With the aim of providing better services to citizens, to implement economies of scale. It can and has been done throughout Europe. According to the Council of Europe, in recent years most countries have significantly reduced the number of municipalities. Bulgaria 88%, from 2,178 to 255. Sweden 87% from 2,281 to 286. Denmark 80% from 1,387 to 285, Belgium 78% from almost 3,000 to just under 600. United Kingdom 76% from 2,000 to just under 500. Germany 67%, from 24,000 to 8,000, Czech Republic 44%, from 11,000 to 6,000. Austria 42%, rising from 4,000 to 2,000. Norway 41% from 750 to 400 and the Netherlands 36% from 1,000 to 600. In other words, all the countries in our environment have carried out this process of merging municipalities. In Euskadi and Spain it is also necessary. And sooner or later it will be done; it will be done because it is indispensable. The highest level of fiscal equality must also be guaranteed. In this Parliament it is customary for different political parties to defend the same taxation for all Basque citizens and the same public services for all Basque citizens. We agree, we want to transfer this principle to the whole of Spain. Same taxation, same minimum services as all citizens. Then, obviously, each autonomous community could have the corresponding margin to increase or reduce taxes and obviously choose each of their own priorities. Anyway, this is what I think we should do. And, of course, here too, the Gernika Statute should be reformed and the Historical Territories Act should be reformed or directly abolished. Therefore, we defend a unitary state, with broad political decentralization, a symmetrical federal state and solidarity. And at this point we can admit that there may be certain asymmetries that can be acceptable and that are not up to date in question, such as the very existence of Ertzaintza. It is an asymmetry, but it is accepted and does not cause any major problem. There are other asymmetries that are not really asymmetries, that is, that certain autonomous communities have certain competences according to their own characteristics, such as insularity or others, we consider that they are not or cannot be considered asymmetries. But then there are asymmetries that are not acceptable, such as the maintenance of the Economic Concert or the Navarro Convention. Obviously each autonomous community in the use of its competences would make its own decisions: more or less money for health, more or less money for education, or autonomous television yes or no depending on what each autonomous community decides. But in any case it is a question of having the necessary institutions and a reasonable distribution of competences that guarantees the maximum possible equality. Therefore, a State, which we propose, is more modern and efficient, more egalitarian, more transparent, lighter, more willing and more available to meet the real needs of citizens. More effective, more useful and better for everyone. And besides, there's something else we'd have to do, and I'm done. Political corruption should be brought to an end. Political corruption accounts for €48 billion per year, according to a recent study. We must also end the mismanagement; here we have the AVE, poorly structured, or airports without planes, or ports without boats, or roads without cars. We must put an end to waste and waste, we must reduce absurd public enterprises and entities that serve nothing but to ensure that every political party places its people there. Reforms of all kinds, reforms of the constitutions must be promoted, so that there can be more transparency, more citizen participation, more democracy and, of course, more and better political dialogue. As I said before, politics is the art of making what is necessary possible. I believe that all this is absolutely necessary, and I believe and wish that all this can be done as soon as possible, and that is what interests society as a whole. And of course all this has to be decided by all the Spanish citizens. Nothing more and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u36	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, Mr. Pastor, who represents the Socialist Basque Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u37	Thank you, President. The debate before us today is not exactly new in this House, we have had it on many occasions and I suppose that in the near future we will have it much more. But this, Mr Maneiro, we believe that it is not a debate that we should face with a motion, seeking a moment of prominence, with the particular positions of each one, rather than the agreement on a common position. And this agreement is a difficult agreement, it is a working agreement, it is a very important and very difficult agreement on a matter which, especially here in Basque, is even more complicated, but at least we must try to ensure that when this debate is discussed, it is done with as much consensus as possible. And if you want to look for a model of state in which the majority of citizens and the territorial entities that make up it can feel minimally comfortable, the first thing is to have the will to share a project of coexistence that has been successful so far, despite their aches and misadjustments. And the second thing is to try to work on concrete proposals, not in the air, because the building reforms are done with a constructive project that concretely sets out the points on which it is going to act and which specifies what the final result is going to be, not on the basis of statements. That is what we put forward in the amendment to the whole of which we have tabled, which is ultimately going to become a crossroads of amendments, declarations and positions, I do not know whether any will be adopted, because I do not think this procedure is very operational. I believe that this must be done discreetly, quietly, in a constructive spirit of reaching agreements, understanding that this is a difficult problem in which we must try to secure all possible consensus. But, finally, we have no problem in developing our approach in this regard, an approach that we think is sensible, constructive and seeks to integrate different positions and aspirations into a shared framework. It is what we understand to be the best, and the rest of the parties in this House will be able to think otherwise, but we think that it is a minimum common denominator that can serve the nationalists, that can serve the gentlemen of PP and UPyD and, of course, it seems to us that at this moment it is the one that allows us to remain together. But the search for that model is clear that it requires a reform of the Constitution. And on what the direction and intensity of these changes should be, surely there will be different views. But I believe that what nobody questions is that the revision of the Constitution must be done in accordance with established legal procedures. And we have tried to do the duties, and we bring them facts and our position is clear. We have made a diagnosis, we have reflected on the changes we understand the Constitution needs after almost 37 years and we have made a proposal for its reform. A diagnosis and a proposal that are certainly not closed, cannot be closed if it is a shared proposal, are open proposals that we are, of course, willing to discuss in order to incorporate other opinions and other sensitivities. But what we Socialists are clear about is what model of state we want, what reforms we think we need to address and how we need to tackle them. I don't know if the rest of the political parties are so clear. This is what we did in July 2013, in the so-called Granada document, and what we subsequently ratified in the Zaragoza declaration last November, when we proposed a new citizens' pact for constitutional reform, democratic regeneration and the strengthening of rights and freedoms. A pact with three very clear objectives. First, to shield the system of rights, freedoms and equality of all citizens, to establish constitutionally what our social state consists of in health, education, pensions, equality, so that no one can afford to lower it with the excuse of the crisis or the public deficit. Secondly, modernizing our democracy, expanding the spaces for citizen participation in decision-making, ensuring transparency in the functioning of public institutions and political parties and closing doors to corruption. And third, to transform autonomous Spain into federal Spain, solving the many dysfunctions that the state of autonomy has been having throughout these three long decades of experience. It wants a reform that clearly delimits the attribution of powers between the central administration and the autonomous communities, which has caused the vast majority of conflicts of competences in the Constitutional Court. Why? Because they weren't clear. That we also establish concrete instruments of cooperation and institutional loyalty, which redefine the composition of the Senate, which effectively and truly recognize the uniqueness and differential facts of some autonomous communities, such as our own, while ensuring the equality of all citizens in access to that first point of access to basic public services. That is, in general terms, the model that we Socialists put forward in Spain as a whole and here too, in Euskadi, because we believe that it is the model that we believe can reconcile in a common framework of coexistence, within a Europe that we want to be of progress, respect for the plurality of feelings that exist in our country and reconcile it with the equal enjoyment of the basic rights of citizenship. We think this is the scheme, we don't think it can be the only one, it's ours, it's the one we've worked on, it's the one that we think is right for the country, but of course in the spirit of discussing it and opening up to other possibilities and other options, because this isn't going to be a day's flower. Today we will probably do this exercise of literature or rhetoric, as you want, and we will all be very satisfied having each told our book, but here we will not solve anything, this is neither the forum nor the procedure to do it. This is done in another way, with broad agreements between parties, and that must be done in a discreet way and, of course, not in the spirit of imposing anyone's position, but speaking clearly and that we all have the conviction that we are going to try at least to reach an agreement. That's our way of dealing with it. And here in Euskadi I understand that we should also address the debate on the updating of our own self-government, of the Basque self-government. An update that needs to be put not only outwards, which is what has usually been done, but also inwards, regarding the framework of Euskadi's relationship with the State, of course, but also, and more urgently and I understand that more easily, because we do not have to resort to anyone else, is our competence, internally here in Euskadi. Because Spain has problems, our country, Euskadi, also has them and this country is calling for a review of the institutional framework that suppresses duplicate and inefficient structures, and that guarantees something as simple as that Basque citizenship has public services and quality, and that they are the same for all, regardless of the territory in which each one lives. And because this reform into which we also demand the Basque Socialists, we understand that it is much easier to undertake. The other affects the whole state, there is no act of coexistence that can be done in Euskadi if you don't have the rest of Spain, but this is up to us exclusively, we don't depend on anyone else, we have all the capacities, we only need the political will to really deal with it, so that what is agreed has an impact on people's daily lives, on their improvement. That is the improvement outwards and inwards that the Basque Socialists are absolutely willing to discuss and try to agree.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u38	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u39	Mila esker, andrea president. Eguerdi on guztioi. Sometimes it gives the impression that there are those who confuse what the Rules of the House allow with what the Rules of the House impose. In other words, the Rules of Procedure allow an inquiry by a parliamentary group into the Government to become a motion. What you don't do is force an inquiry to become a motion, which is very different, Mr. Maneiro, because sometimes you seem to confuse it. It is very legitimate, very reasonable and logical for you to ask Mr Lehendakari or any member of the Government about a particular subject. What does not seem to us politically reasonable, let me say with all due respect, is that this inquiry becomes a motion for another type of interest and that we have to come here to discuss issues that we have already talked about, which you know when you present this motion that is not going to take anywhere but to reproduce debates that give us back and forth against a wall. Because, if not, how is it understood, from a reasonable point of view, that someone can pose, that you can pose in this House, no longer as a hypothesis, but as a firm and closed thing, the acceptance of promoting a symmetrical and supportive federal state? That is to say, that this Parliament demands something very concrete from the Congress of Deputies. There is no debate, it has to be this and nothing more than this. And then he says that any decision on the territorial model of the state – and now I'm going to develop this first thesis a little further – is made through the established legal procedures. Obviously. But it is that politics, Mr Maniero – and this is something your group sometimes forgets, your party sometimes forgets it – besides following the legal procedure established for any kind of reform, and more obviously a constitutional one, politics also demands that for such reforms there be generosity, consensus, height, sense of state and humility, Mr Maneiro. Because there are certain subjects that without generosity, without height, without sense of state and without humility are impossible to address. The Constitution was not born from the imposition, it was born from the consensus, a consensus that precisely allowed the Constitution to be a reality. From generosity, in which some and others left themselves on the way to seeking that consensus that made the Constitution possible. And only from consensus, only from generosity, only from the height of vision that those who drafted the Constitution had, can be hypothetically reformed or a hypothetical reform be addressed. Not from approaches like this, closed and that, moreover, the only thing they intend to use this House and this rostrum as a propagandistic speaker, legitimate, but in a matter like this, in any case, reprehensible. Because those who at that time had the immense responsibility of drafting a Constitution, of agreeing a constitutional text at a particularly sensitive time for Spain, sought solutions that could accept all the parties represented in the constituent courts. What you are proposing today knows perfectly well that it is not going to be accepted, that it is impossible for it to be accepted by all and less in a way like the one you have raised, if we even had some capacity to do so. And they also did something very important and it is that they fled the imposition of majorities on minorities. The question to be asked: is there any capacity today, seeing that attitude, moreover, that which you have reflected today in this rostrum, is there today that generosity, that height and conditions and circumstances are given so that there is a height of sight, so that there is generosity, so that there is humility? I sincerely and deeply regret it, I doubt it, I deeply doubt it. And before I focus on the completion of my intervention, I want to make a review too, which you always forget. The Constitution brought political stability, progress, freedom and the greatest economic and social impulse possible, of course the greatest economic and social impulse that this country has experienced in modern history. And sometimes when I hear some thoughts about what we should be, what we should stop being, what we should reform in the mouth of some, I miss that putting in value, that remembering, prestige a rule that is fundamental and that has served for all these things that I have said to you. It is true that the world evolves, that the world is transformed, society changes, Spain is transformed, Euskadi also evolves, fortunately, and it is true that the norms that we equip ourselves to live with must also adapt to that evolution, to the logical evolution of things. It is true that political attitudes and legal texts, and of course also the Constitution, have to continue to evolve with the very evolution of society, that is true. But I think it's as important as getting right about what needs to be modernised, what needs to be changed, is when and how. And that when and in that how, no doubt you must be presided over, especially how, by that generosity you spoke of before, Mr Maneiro, by that height of vision and that absence of partyism, which is sometimes too obvious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u40	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing on the side of the teams that have no corrections, Mr. Ray, the representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u41	Eguerdi on guztioi. "In order to exercise the right of self-determination, the peoples of the State should have previously constituted themselves in autonomous territory in accordance with the Constitution. The initiative was the legislative assembly, on the proposal of a quarter of its members. Their approval required the vote of the absolute majority of these. Approval was to be submitted to a referendum of the affected population, and the decision to form an independent State required the affirmative vote of the absolute majority of each territory. If the quorum is not reached, the referendum could be convened after two years in the next legislature of the autonomous territory." Amendment to Title VIII of the Spanish Constitution, as a way of incorporating the right of self-determination, by Francisco Letamendia, Ortzi, Congressman by Euskadiko Ezkerra in 1978. This was an attempt, at least one of them who had been, to acknowledge the right of self-determination and the national character of the Basque People, like others. I understand that, by a new pact with the Crown, he also introduced a correction to renew the territory of the Four Basques. And yet they were both rejected at that time. This made it clear that the constitution which was newly born did not solve the whole affair, or at least leave some problems for the next few years, as we have seen, not for the next decades. And I don't know whether it's worth interfering with this examination, but it's clear that the Constitution and the consequence of this constitution did not bring any democratic break into the government of Franco. In the first place, we may mention civil and political freedoms, because they weren't all right, much less social rights. It is true that the Phoenician powers had fought a great deal in those days, because they were not willing to give up at all, and had to yield to some things, but the Church and the Army did not go out with all things, but with a good deal, and that is the consequence. Among these consequences, our national character was not admitted, and the citizen of Esscha is still unreserved and unrespected by the right of self-determination which we have of our fellow-citizens. That's what's brought back other problems clearly in the past few decades. At the present day, I believe, we shall all be satisfied, that this constitution, and the transition, appear to us more than those of barrenness. That is to say, a lot of trouble was left unsolved. It seems, therefore, that it is now quite in harmony with a reform of the Constitution, that this constitution requires a reform, and that this dispute is absolutely necessary. Different political parties do not only here, but elsewhere acknowledge the necessity of it. We need not deny it, we shall not be the ones who will refuse it or dispute it; but it is plain that the Spaniards, the Spanish, must decide whether such a reform is useful to them or not, even in the eyes of their social rights, and in the eyes of their civil and political liberties. On this side we wish the Spaniards, the people of Spain, the best, and if they believe that this is the best and best way, we will give them courage to do the right thing. But in this case we cannot mistake the fact that opening a constitutional, continental process will naturally lead to the consent and respect of social or political rights, as there are independent processes of respect. This process, if this reform begins, can either go forward or go back, may even be a desitable process. And in the Spanish State, it's also starting that desitating process. As a matter of fact, with the change of article 135, the desitant process began in the Spanish State. He had, in some measure, given up the national property belonging to the Spanish State, and thus exposed the rights of the public to the interests of the markets. We clearly know that this is not our way. We will always defend the sovereignty of the nation, the independence of the Basque people, the independence of the Basque people, and the independence of the Basque people, because we think it must be an essential instrument of independence to support all our rights, individual and collective. And by the way we must say that we, in the way of Jürgen Habermas, are constitutional, because we too want our own constitution, we want the Basque Constitution, because we really think that an effective instrument may probably be one of the most effective instruments in order to guarantee all the rights that belong to the people. This, in contrast to the dispute we are discussing, we think that the correction of each group expresses in a manner the political position of its several sects in Spain. And in this sense, we see that the Poptular Party takes the Constitution as a trench and is fortified round it, because it does not wish to advance at all. From PSOE, we see above all that is vague, without definitions, and we do not yet know what the famous Federal State is. We know they made a grenade document, we read it, and we still don't know what it's doing or what the Social Party wants. On the other hand, there is, or is not, because there is here another cause, i.e. Podemos. Poseidon declared from the very beginning that the need for a efficient process must be a process of making all the slaves in 78. We can unite with this desire, but we do not yet know how to seek the political centrality of Podemos or a strange trip to the center. And because they say different things in one place or the other, we shall clearly declare that what they say in Telesur, Venezuela, is commonly more agreeable here than what they say in the Spanish State, and in the communications of the Spanish State, because we also think that, as we said in the Telesurries, it must be acknowledged to the nation that the right of catalanes and Basques and the right of self-determinations and self-determinations must be attributed to it. And if we ask what our position will be, because we do not know yet whether this dispute will be true or not, whether it will really be open or not, we shall be right again: we will unite forces for political change. First of all, we'll meet those forces at the Basque Country, if possible. In the second place, we know that in Catalonia we shall have allies to make this voyage. And if it be possible, in the Spanish State, we are ready to collect strength with the rest of the political forces which may support political change, in the Spanish State, to produce a real political change, if that be the confession of the national character for the Basque Country, and with it the right of self-determination. And if this discussion is not true and if it is not so... And we think that's the most real hypothesis. Why? Because we do not see that neither from PP nor from PSOE at any moment there is neither political will nor democratic ability to arrive at such a dispute. If this is the case, we will continue to collect forces for political change, but only in the Basque Country. We're ours, and that's the way to the Basque Way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u42	Thank you, Mr. Ray. Mr. Egibar, the Egibar, who is the representative of the team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u43	Good morning, everyone. I believe that Gorka Maneiro has a purpose in presenting us in the name of UPyD, and that it is to fix the province of real political play, that is to say, to explain this Chamber, and at the second point, it is evident that what is decided is in question, that in the end there is only one political subject, and that it is the society of Spain, and that what he decides will be the only thing that puts itself in force. That is to say, the opinion, the proposition, the decision of the proposition, is here agreed, that what is here done will be of little use. And he proposes directly to the federal, symmetrical, and then to remove, or to obliterate, a prejudice of himself. The other spokesman said it was not the day we discussed this subject for the first time. It was just a month ago before the election that we had a discussion just before EH Collecte introduced another motive, and I should like to remark these two sections, which the majority of the legislature accepted with a remarkable majority. What I think is, if we're in a new political period, that it's clear, and we've often heard in self-organisation during these long months, when Jon Azua, who was also the President of the late occurrence of yesterday, was admitted to be the State of the State, thought they were going to negotiate transfers, as the state said, that all the mixtasiones must have negotiate and remain in the Basque institutions for six months. Well, you can see how many years it's been, and then you can't tell if there's been a fraud. But here it is a matter of the future. And the other day Mr. Maniro said, "The Basque Country is a political subject." And I said to him, "No, he's a political subject who has the right to decide the Basque Country or doesn't exist." There's one of the keys, that's the key, the key of political conflict is from that confession: or else it is confessed, or is not confessed. For if it exists, it exists, and has a right to its course as a people, not in any way. When only a month ago this Parliament declared that "before a new time of political coexistence in Euskadi, which implies sharing certain principles: one, the Basque people are a political subject with the right and capacity to decide on their future, to be consulted and to have their democratically expressed will respected". Okay, it's a principle, which will not be shared by some, which I assume will hold the same position. Most of the time, however, the existence of a people with the right to decide is expressed. You can still deny it, but there is, it's real. We have a second point. "Let the method of conflict resolution be based on dialogue, negotiation, the broadest agreements between political forces or, failing that, on respect for the free and democratic will of the majority." A procedure. And someone can say "no, but within the law." So let's go to the law and when in this country also certain political formations a time past but not so far away, when we talked about "the mechanisms that allow Basque citizens to make free and democratic decisions about their political and institutional future", we said, we committed ourselves. This does not link anyone today, it is a text that we have worked on in the past and in which we have agreed. When it says "we are committed to defending that the decisions that Basque citizens make freely and democratically about their political future are respected by the institutions of the State". That's what we said. So what does it mean that they are respected by State institutions? And he's moving on. It says, "These decisions will be taken in the absence of any kind of violence and coercion, following legal rules and procedures, and respecting democratic methods and the rights and freedoms of citizens." The procedure is established and political will is added. We understand that "these legal procedures refer to those in force at every moment, and can be modified in the future so that it is not a limitation to the will of the people, but a guarantee of their exercise". I believe that it is directly expressed what the procedure is and what the premium is: if it is the will, it is the legality or it acts in symbiosis between legitimacy and legality, which is the Quebec process. That is why we feel that the last debate, the appeal to the democratic principle that we made on the third point, had become bogged down in an initial tie and with three consecutive ties fell. But yes, the other two principles came forward with a significant majority of this House. Because the Basque Nationalist Party recalls different moments of what could have been attempts to amend the Spanish Constitution. Indeed, the institutional initiative of this Parliament, of the new political status, adopted on 30 December 2004 and defended in Parliament on 1 February 2005, did not directly entail a constitutional amendment. It was understood that there were and are legal loopholes on which to hang an interpretation, taking into account the additional, derogatory and so on. Appeal to historical rights, it was understood that there was such a perch in order to move towards an agreement of political coexistence. In 2011, in August, when the constitutional amendment expressed by the People's Party and the Socialist Party is to be produced, the Basque Nationalist Party – this is no longer an institutional action of this House – presents an initiative to amend the constitutional text, proposing that, as amended by the Spanish Constitution, the right of self-determination be incorporated, on the basis of the declaration adopted on 15 February 1990 in this House. I think the positions are clear. UPyD wants to narrow down the territory of the debate by saying "here we can discuss what you want, but what is decided is decided there, and the rights of the Basques will be subject to that principle of equality, which equals us all as Spaniards and, therefore, it will be all Spaniards who are the luck or the will of this people, because it is subsumed into another political subject that is superior and that does not admit new political subjects". The positions in this Parliament are also defined. In the self-government presentation we have heard many things. Contradictory? Any compatibles? That they can allow a development, a journey? The Basque Nationalist Party thinks that with the two principles that were adopted, for example, in the last debate, plus the appeal to how possible reforms should be dealt with in that appeal to legality – that these are the roles of Loyola, which I have not invented either, I have not written any, but these reflections were in the talks; you have not heard the first part of my speech, Mr Ares; yes, and roles –, I think they give clues that also, from that self-government presentation, or if, in their case, someone or the Socialist Party or Podemos or the People's Party initiates a procedure of amendment of the Spanish Constitution, so that this Parliament, in the name of the people it represents, can also make its proposal for amendment. I believe that pronouncements exist. They are not binding, here there is no doctrine or pronouncement binding, because we are talking about propositions not of law or motions. But we did have a bill, passed by this House in December 2004, which was introduced and not even served, was rejected. And it was a formula, an expression of an attempt to agree on political coexistence. There is time to look for new formulas, but from the majority will, free and democratically expressed by Basque citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u44	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the answers, Mist, Mr. Maneiro, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u45	Thank you, President. I like political groups to come down to the rostrum and defend their proposals. I think that this is what we are for, to go down to the rostrum and that everyone should stand up for what he or she considers to be necessary proposals for society. I don't like it coming down to the rostrum just to criticize the rest or that certain political representatives for too many years have been or have even been too defensive, an excessively protectionist stance, like afraid to defend what our proposals are. I don't like that. And I think we need to break up with that. Let Mr Egibar come down and tell us the usual story, let him defend his proposals, that's fine with me. But I want to do it too. And I don't like those political representatives who come down to the rostrum to say that this shouldn't be talked about. I don't like laziness, I don't like seeing laziness in political representatives. I don't like someone coming down to the rostrum and saying, "No, I better not talk about this, I'm going to chat later, I'll explain it there," I don't like it. We are parliamentarians and I think it is reasonable for everyone here to defend, in the form of a motion or a GNP, because we have no other, what measures each one considers necessary to implement. I therefore like parliamentary work. It's also a mistake and I shouldn't like it so much and I should devote myself to other things, but, finally, it's the utensils that I have, going down to the rostrum and defending what I believe. Because some and others, or some more than others, have come to me to say that it is not the way, that it is not the way, that it is better to work on these matters in a discreet way, that there is not enough consensus, that we have already talked about this subject and we always repeat the same thing. Well, I think these are important matters, Mr Semper, I think this is an important matter. How can we not talk about the reform of the Spanish Constitution or the reform of the state model in this Parliament when it directly affects us? How are we not going to talk about it? And we're gonna talk about it as many times as we need to. Does it seem to you that this is not an important issue? Doesn't that seem to you to be a relevant matter, which also directly affects the Basques? And some claim me humility. Humility all, if I have explained it in my first round: these are our proposals, logically open to the rest of the political parties, very difficult to carry out. But precisely some of these proposals are already opening up, opening up their way, and more and more people are defending them: reform of the Spanish Constitution, going to a federal state, abolition of the deputies, merger of municipalities, citizen equality, fiscal equality. I think these are ideas that are opening up and I want to insist on them. The other is immobilisation, the other is doing nothing, the other is coming to Parliament for a while. Mr Semper, for example, says to me "it is impossible to carry out these proposals". But why? Yes, you said "this is what you pose is impossible." If we consider them to be necessary and reasonable measures, why is it impossible? That there's no consensus? Obviously there is no consensus, the political board is broken, there are countless political parties, let's see what happens in the next elections. True, but these are our proposals, we are here to defend them, not just to criticize what others propose. And that's what I've done, and I've explained, with perfect humility. We do not want to impose anything, we could not impose anything, none could impose anything, there must be maximum consensus and I think that these are the measures that should be put in place. When? I was wondering about some. The sooner. How? Well, with the legal procedures in place and seeking maximum consensus. I'm accused of partisanship. It's not partyism. Man, logically I'm going down here to defend the ideas of UPyD, I'm not going to defend the ideas of the Basque Nationalist Party. And these ideas we believe are absolutely necessary and must be taken by all Spanish citizens. Because the right to decide effectively exists and to take certain measures, such as the reform of the Spanish Constitution, must logically be carried out through the established legal procedures and all Spanish citizens must take part in that decision. There are some decisions that are our sole responsibility, and in the area of our competence we will decide them. Others do not have to be taken by all Spanish citizens, of course. And this is one of them, the reform of the Constitution, the reform of the model of State. But we believe that these are absolutely indispensable measures to improve people's lives. That you don't like them? Perfectly respectable. That you don't think anything needs to be changed? Perfectly respectable. That you consider the Spanish Constitution untouchable? Perfectly respectable. Certain nationalist ideas are even respectable. Our ideas, in any case, are these. And it is not partisanism to come to a Parliament to defend the ideas you believe in. Therefore, less laziness, less immobility, less looking to the past. If the model of autonomy is to be recognized, if the Spanish Constitution is to be recognized, it is recognized, well. But we are in a process of change, we must look to the future. And we think that this is what should be done, seeking the maximum consensus, logically, and for the benefit of the whole citizenry, it is not for the benefit of UPyD, it is for the benefit of the whole citizenry. You will see how some of these proposals, sooner or later, are being implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u46	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u47	So far, the debate has come to certify what I was saying, for what little good is what we are doing. I do not, of course, take away from you or any Member of this House the legitimacy of presenting anything in this House, but I also start from the idea that we must try to be useful with the things that are being discussed in this House. And on a subject, as is often said, where we play with things to eat, I think we have to be wise enough, intelligent and sometimes discreet when it comes to dealing with these issues, so that they can get to a good place. I think that's the procedure for it to be discussed. We have a framework, a political project, which will like it more or less, we think it is good, we think it is the best of those on the table, but of course we are willing to discuss it. And it is true that here too, as Mr Egibar recalled, just a month ago... you now present that symmetrical federal project and the lords of Bildu speak of the right to independence from different positions. And we agree again in the same debate, because here we also have a specific problem. And here there are certain gentlemen, such as Mr Arraiz, who have a very concrete sense of belonging and a very defined identity. Also in the PNV, at least Mr. Egibar does presume that he has it. I don't have the same, I have another feeling of belonging, which is not exclusive with regard to the Basque and the Spanish. Yours does, and I respect yours, and I ask you to respect mine. And I think that in order for this society to work – I also say this to you, Mr Egibar – we must try to reconcile all the feelings of belonging that exist in this country, which are very diverse. And in his party there are also various identities in the sense of belonging and various limits to how far it is intended to go. We, the Socialist Party, think that it is best to do everything possible to forge a common project with the rest of Spain, because we think that it is more effective for the interests of Basque citizens. I understand that you have other starting positions, but you also understand that in some way you will have to reconcile both positions. Mr. Arraiz said "no, it's that you are inconcrete in your proposal." No, no, If you hope to find in our proposal the exercise of the right to decide, you will never find it, because that is not our political proposal and we will never defend it, because we start from the principle that what you call the right of self-determination is a very legitimate political claim, but it is neither a right nor is it recognized as such in any constitution of the world, nor in international law either, even though you only take one of the paragraphs that speaks of that. We therefore start from the principle of common sense, effectiveness and interest in the welfare of Basque citizens and other Spanish citizens. So simple, without maximalism and without the will to use this as an element of political agitation, if we really all think that we must try to achieve a better framework where we all feel minimally comfortable. And for that, we must find a minimum common denominator as broad as possible. That is our commitment and our will, and I only ask others to have at least the same commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u48	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Look, Mr. Maneiro, what I don't like is to live in a fairy and debate as if we were in a fairy permanently about the same thing and always give ourselves permanently against a wall, which is what you seem to like. What I don't like is debates that don't lead to anything at all, because there are too many problems out there so that we're playing politics because UPyD wants us to. You know perfectly well when you present this motion what the result of the vote is, because you also participate in parliamentary presentations where we are precisely talking about these things, with great seriousness and rigour, and where we will continue to do so. That is, that you do not come here to talk about laziness and what things, do not come to discover contemporary democracy, because what you are doing is a party game, legitimate but party game, because you know that this debate does not lead us anywhere. You and the rest of the political formations are led to remain in their already known positions. I mean, don't tell us stories. Of course it is an important debate, it would be missing more. So important that it is very surprising that the motions for resolutions, which I have taken the trouble to read, which UPyD is presenting in the Congress of Deputies, where this debate does make sense, in February this year, we are not even talking about what you are proposing here. No, read UPyD's motions for resolutions from the state of the nation debate, not even what it is putting forward here. And we come here with the usual monk to tell us that this debate I don't know what. Of course it is an important debate! Are you going to find out to others that this debate is important? But where they have to put them, they don't ask. But what are they playing at? Where do you want to take us? Why are we in the self-government paper? For what? Are we wasting our time? Perhaps so, but what I am clear is that we are wasting our time here today with this debate, because we have heard the same arguments that we have heard 38,000 times in this House and that have all taken us to the same place. With which, something will be doing wrong, Mr. Maneiro. Open your eyes. Maybe the path is not the right one we're doing, the one we're going through the way we're going through it isn't the right one. Are we going to hit the same wall again? Is that the upbuilding debate? For to me to stand against a wall, to us to stand against a wall, produces an infinite laziness and we do not want to stand against a wall. We want to grow, to evolve, to modernize this society, to improve our institutions, to improve the tools of self-government and coexistence, be the Statute of Autonomy, the Constitution, to modernize, of course, yes. And on top of that, in a boast of absence of extreme humility, he says, "You will see how many of the things I come here to say one day will be done." But what have you discovered, constitutionalism in the 21st century? Sure! And others not, and some that these gentlemen also raise, some of those that these other gentlemen also raise. Of course, what are we going to do to him!, in a positive sense I mean. Or do you intend to tell us what you have come to list us here you have invented, have incorporated UPyD into modern politics, have we taken note of all the others – the Basque Nationalist Party, the Socialist Party, the Popular Party, newly arrived – and thanks to UPyD, the Union, Progress and Democracy, those proposals or some of them will be incorporated into a hypothetical amendment to the Spanish Statute or Constitution? But you have to put up with some things, Mr. Maneiro... With a lot of respect, but it's just that you'll have to do a humility exercise in this rostrum sometime, too. And it's not laziness, Mr. Maneiro, what we have the rest. What I think, I insist, and think of this idea, which is not very complicated, is that we must try to find another way, we must make another journey, because the one we have used has taken us to the same place, which is against a wall. And of course we have to portray ourselves, and we have tried it many times, and we will see it in the coming months in the development of self-government. Mr. Egibar is slowly portraying us, he is beginning to mention more and more the Ibarretxe plan. And I will ask you again before leaving the rostrum whether the Ibarretxe plan, to which Mr Egibar referred again today, is the starting point of the Basque Nationalist Party. It would be good to know. So I take advantage of it – forgive me as it takes away the protagonistism – and I ask Mr. Egibar. And I do it because you put it on the table in your speech. I have little hope that you will answer, but I will try. Mr Egibar, is the Ibarretxe plan the starting point of the Basque Nationalist Party for a debate on a hypothetical modification of the Autonomy Statute or even possible constitutional reforms? Is that the starting point? Is that what we're meeting in the next phase of the self-government paper? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u50	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Array, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u51	Good afternoon again. I just want to make a little bit of an specification. The right of deciding has been mentioned, and that there is no mention of a right, that the right of self-determination does not exist, that it does not appear anywhere, or in any constitution, is not in the International Right. It seems to me that it appears to be in some constitutions; Estonia, Slovenia, Lithuania, Slovakia, Ireland, in the constitutions of Portugal, is the right of self-determination. So I think it's a right to move forward. Nik kontu zehatz beat aipatu nahi dut. It is true that there are different feelings of belonging or national identity in this country, despite the fact that some of us are not accepted by ourselves and are imposed by others, which is the great difference that exists between you and me. I accept your feeling of belonging and your national identity, I have no problem with you being Spanish and living in Euskal Herria, I have no problem and I believe that you must be guaranteed all the rights you have as a Spanish citizen in Euskal Herria. However, I'm Basque, I just feel Basque and I don't have all my rights guaranteed in my own country. That's the big difference between you and me in this country and right now. The feelings of belonging are plural, of course they are, and then there are political projects that are different. And yours is that this part of the country is Spain, it seems legitimate and respectable to me. But mine is that this is an independent country called Euskal Herrria, and it also seems legitimate and respectable to me. But you and your people do not respect it, because you do not allow it to be put into practice, through the coercive exercise that is reflected in your Constitution, in the Spanish Constitution, where you give the army the role of guarantor of the indissoluble unity of the Spanish nation. That's the big difference. And I believe that the right to decide is precisely where we can find each and every one of us, where you, the other and the one beyond us can find each of us, each of them are their perfectly legitimate and respectable feeling and identity, but where we can decide with a single limit, the only limit has to be the popular will, that is, what people want, and that we can decide what our relationship with the Spanish State has to be and what our relationship with the rest of Basque territories has to be. That's all we plan. And we believe that this is essentially a democratic exercise, a deeper insight into democracy. To resist is to contest a democracy, to reduce it, to use it for whatever you please. We think that's not fair. That's the difference between you and us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u52	Thank you, Mr. Ray. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u53	I do not know whether the reasons are equal or equal, but we mean the existence of a people; or you exist or you do not exist. That's not about right. If you are a people, you must choose to become a people and be respected by your rights. Society has no right to decide, peoples have a right to it. It's a possible rate of things to the character of the people. There are peoples here and it's our country. Mr. Pastor used to say "Brondate." We have our own will. And I think, from this point of view, that if it has a natural right to decide, an exercise of that right of deciding may be agreed. As the Ambraciot has shown. We, who feel as a citizen as a citizen, have not constitutionally adhered to those rights as a people, because our people are not agreed with these rights. Then life is possible, of course, but from that respect. Nik you had to saiakerak egin say the Honest Legebiltzar. And so I respond to Mr. Borja Semper, that if you don't ask me, then they ask the lehendakari if we walk or stop walking with the plan. Firstly, on 30 December 2004 a law, a Basque political status, was adopted, following the path of reform, went to Madrid, in Madrid defended itself, defended Ibarretxe on behalf of this Parliament, and its contents you seem to know or do not know, I do not know, what that project says, according to some of the manifestations it does, because this political status approved here, whose depositary is this Parliament, does not the PNV or Ibarretxe, which is no longer, binds anyone. Then, in the work of the presentation each one exposes and presents what he wants, neither party nor arrival point, are the principles. We are not in the articulation of a text. He's got 69 plus the extra ones, and so on. The Basque Nationalist Party, do you not deduce exactly what the principles on which the new proposal is intended are? If I have just read you the two principles: the Basque people, the political subject with the right and the capacity to decide, that Basque citizenship be consulted and that whatever freely and democratically decides is respected and attended to. Democratic principle. I'll tell you more. If the parties of the Spanish State, the big ones, the Spanish nationals, be it the People's Party, the Socialist Party, Podemos and other forces, do not enter into a process of democratic deepening, for example with the Catalan question, and always settle in the ban or in the threat, and if to a possible or potential offer our, of this Parliament, that with the greatest possible consensus, but without the right to veto on the part of no one, we will come to have another project; if they neglect all these initiatives, it is possible that someone will remember 30 December 2004 as a missed opportunity. Look what I'm telling you. Having not reached out, when a project such as the one approved by this Parliament comes to Madrid trying and with the aim of negotiating and hitting a door, it is possible that someone will repent in time and say "and why do we not respond to that proposal?". And I am not making this up, because I have already listened to one of your party and also one of the Socialist Party in Madrid. That when a Parliament expresses itself freely and democratically, it forms a project and is not addressed to it, it is rejected, and Catalonia, which also tries three, four times the same thing and is rejected and reformed, it is possible that the scenarios that arrive, the ones that arise, are not controlled from that security, it seems that they have the great Spanish national parties. That is our starting point: to speak, to consent. We are presenting the principles for developing a text on these bases with the utmost consensus. And in the absence of absolutely unanimous majorities or consensus, democratic majorities are also good, because what cannot be done is that someone practices the right to veto permanently.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u54	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Forth point on the theme list: "Mutation, myria Llanos Gómez, a member of the Popula team, an organization of the border and a plan of 2016. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Miss Llanos, the representative of the Populative Party, has the word, in order to present and defend the enterprise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. On 24 April we presented in this House an inquiry to the Security Adviser concerning the organisation of the Ertzaintza and the Horizon 2016 plan, because we considered that given the answer that this plan and the structure derived from it had had, and given the dynamic nature of it when it was presented, we wanted to know if that plan was going to undergo any modification. But the counselor, demonstrating that usual course of action never to make the slightest self-criticism, considered that this plan was perfect, that the structure was perfect, that it had brought no dysfunction and that, therefore, it does not intend to do anything at all. And that is why we have tabled this motion. Because, as has been said before, after an inquiry, a motion may not be presented when it is seen that there is actually a will on the part of the Government, or when that will is null and void as it is in this case, to present the motion for the House to rule. And because from this group we consider that what the adviser expressed in that inquiry does not correspond to reality, that the organization derived from the plan is clearly better and that this approach is therefore necessary. I was referred to in that plenary as a trade union representative in this House. Well, it will be because I listen to the unions more than the councillor itself, because I have them in more consideration, because precisely the presentation of the new structure of the department and of the Horizon 2016 plan was first made to the press, not even the interested ones, not even in this House, was first made to the press. The plan revolved around four axes: achieving a high level of social recognition, which I believe Ertzaintza already has; active prevention, which I will then refer to it; continuous improvement, which of course is necessary, but for this it is necessary a self-criticism and is never done; and commitment and internal cohesion, which I believe with the department's action is getting less and less. And it was based on mission, vision and values; values that should be closeness, trust, commitment, team and evolution. And it seemed like these values would never have existed in the Ertzaintza, and in our opinion they have been for a long time. Our group, as it cannot be otherwise, fully agrees that, with the aim of ensuring the security of Basque society, we want to improve public attention and security, research, police intelligence, prevention and protection. That it is good to perfect the way to act, whenever it is done from the agreement and from the consensus, because, as I said, it is good that the changes are participated and assumed by those who have to apply them ultimately, who are the agents, to achieve the greatest possible involvement of these. And it is good to take into account their contributions, those who are unionized and those who are not unionized. And also count on the contributions of the citizens. But this has not been done. Because the plan, as I said, got off badly, because it was imposed, it has also been considered that only the department can talk about organization, no one beyond the department, not even the agents involved themselves, not even those who have to apply it, not even the unions that represent many of those agents. It has the trade unions absolutely against it, and we will have an opportunity for them to state precisely what their trade union complaints are in this House. But as I said before here and as I told the counselor at the time, when the plan was presented, the plan was dynamic. And we understand that dynamism is that when something is seen to have dysfunctions and it is possible to improve, to introduce those improvements, to introduce corrections, so that what does not work better. And in this House, in committee, we have heard real amendments to the whole plan. And if they did not come to that whole amendment, of course we have heard the need for amendments. And that is what we propose here today, nothing more than that, in the motion we have represented: to correct the dysfunctions that have been observed. Because there are many of them, even if they do not want to be recognized, and so, as I said before, it became apparent in this House. Because the plan had a lot of publicity and propaganda. It was also implemented in an imposed, hasty and improvised manner, and has not been provided with sufficient resources. When it started, it wasn't even set up the structure, nor how that would work. If units began to be removed and disappeared, there began to be problems, because it was necessary above all to give the image of the presence on the street. As I said, not one union, not two, all the unions that appeared in this House, all said that the structure of the Ertzaintza makes the Ertzaintza work worse than it used to. They showed that the changes they had brought were that police action was worse than it was before. And of course, it is no longer argued that the criticisms of the unions were because there were trade union elections, because the trade union elections passed and the criticisms are still there. Because the management of the valuable human capital that constitutes the agents of Ertzaintza is terrible. So terrible, that, as I have said on many occasions, something has been achieved that is difficult to achieve, and it is that union unanimity, unanimity in criticisms such as, for example, the shared management of the Commissioners, which the Councilwoman called "rationalizing management"; in Roma paladino, cut-off of the service. Because when it comes to another administration, they'd be talking about cuts without any doubt. Now that is, when it is done by the Basque Government it is pulled out of the manual of verbal periphrases and here we have to call it in different ways. Closeness was one of the thrusts of the plan, and it was argued that the goal was to gain closeness. But it is not so, shared management does not bring closer proximity, because in many cases it has caused carelessness and waits. It has been a covert unification, with a single objective, a purely economic objective and which, far from improving the service provided by citizens, has worsened it and produced a deficit of it. Another of the tips, prevention; as I say, another of the axes on which the plan rotated. But prevention has worsened. And it has worsened because what has been intended is not to improve such prevention, but to give the impression that such prevention was improved. Because prevention is achieved by patrolling with uniformed agents and with non-standardized agents. But what happened? That the number of uniformed men is much higher and the number of non-standardized men has been reduced. And what's the reason? Evidently, the usual: the image. Why? Because uniformed patrolmen are seen more, and in that way it can be said that there is more presence on the street. But sometimes the non-standardized, the askatus, are infinitely more effective for crime prevention than the uniformed. But of course, as I say, the image requires it to be seen. And that is the reason, and so it was also stated here in committee, that vehicles have to carry the rotarys always on and always have to warn of their presence and that, for example, when it comes to industrial pavilions, they know perfectly well which pavilion they are in and, of course, wide way to enter the rest of the pavilions. Because, as I say, image and statistics are the main concerns. That is why, as a matter of pure statistics, meaningless controls are carried out. Here they complain about the controls of another cop, but they have to do a check per turn. And of course there are occasions, because it has been said so, that the same person who is controlled in the morning when he leaves his house and at night when he arrives at his house, is the most controlled of all Euskadi. Or controls are made of child restraint devices, that is, so that we all understand each other, the seats of the children of the cars at three in the morning. A very common time when we all take our children out on a Wednesday at 3:00 in the morning. And to help statistics as well, when registering crimes have to be recorded in different ways. What are thefts, if they are not accomplished, are recorded as crimes of damage, because in the end it causes much less concern to citizens. The investigation. It has also become clear that there is a need to improve research, and we agree with that. With greater training and with greater provision of personal and material means. I think we all agree on that, all the political groups, all the actors. But of course, what happens is that the investigative people have been reversed, because the investigation begins with the denunciation of the criminal act. And of course, at this point in time, to cater for those who report the crime, there are 40% fewer staff than there were before, and that means that citizens on many occasions have to wait a long time or have to leave, because they are told to go to another police station or to come back the next day. And I've said it many times, it doesn't seem normal for me to be told to a citizen, who already has the burden of having been the victim of a crime, "hey, I can't take care of you today, you come back tomorrow." Because what he wants is to report it as soon as possible. And now it looks like you're going to put in a new service that's pre-date to report, it's like going to Osakidetza. The pre-date to report. But of course this from the previous appointment to report is not for the improvement of service, no. This is to not have to tell people "you come back tomorrow or go somewhere else to report, which here if you won't have to wait two hours." And there must also be means for the investigation to be able to do its job, and for example there are problems with eye inspections right now. Those who have suffered, for example, a crime are told not to move anything from the scene of the crime until we go, and they have to have closed a business for five hours, because it takes five hours to arrive. And for example, another thing that has been said to work wrong is the transfer of prisoners. Previously it was done from the three groups that were in the police stations where the prisons were. Now it's done by the mobile brigade, which sometimes has to do 400 kilometers when it was 40, that is, ten times more. Not recognizing that this has worsened, the service of both the transfer of prisoners and the work of the mobile brigade itself, I think it is not welcome that it is not recognized. Because, of course, when the mobile brigade, which is responsible for maintaining law and order, for preventing serious incidents, for curbing disturbances when there may be, sometimes two units are requested and sent because they no longer have them. It is true that sometimes that non-sending of the mobile brigade is absolutely intentional, because, echoing what some say, it seems that the police do not have to be, the Ertzaintza does not have to be because it provokes. No, the Ertzaintza has to be, because only sometimes the fact that it is, that is already preventing the altercation. It's got to be. Sometimes that not sending or not sending enough is absolutely intentional. But sometimes it is not intentional, it is not sent because there is no more, because the brigade is moving the prisoners, which was previously done much more effectively. And all this inefficiency is reflected in the number of complaints, which has increased by 31%, although, as I said and I want to reiterate here today, making a complaint is not always easy, it is not easy for the citizen, nor is it easy, because many times when the agents tell the citizen "put a complaint", then the investigated person himself is the agent who told that citizen "put a complaint". Thus, despite all these complaints, complaints have increased by 31% and the highest percentage of increases is precisely in the time it takes to deal with them. Therefore, since we did not see any vision that the department would recognize these dysfunctions, that this dynamism was, as some people like to say here too, pure posture, because dynamically nothing, it is immutable, as is immutable and non-negotiating the department's attitude towards the workers' rights of the agents, since we did not see that intention on the part of the department, it is for this reason that we have presented the motion. A motion, and then I will refer to the amendments that have been tabled, which I believe is perfectly acceptable and which, if we believed in the dynamic nature of the plan, would be perfectly acceptable, that dysfunctions should be analysed, that the contributions of trade unions, agents and citizens should be taken into account, and that, depending on that, the plan and the structure should be modified, so that they could serve the ultimate purpose that they should have, so that they could serve that objective of giving security to citizens, so that all the agents making up the Ertzaintza would be able to do so. And from here I mean, because if I don't know what's going to happen anymore, your work and professionalism want to put it fully into value, because they do an impeccable job, despite how badly directed they are. Well, in order for them to have a proper structure and means to be able to do their job, we ask for support for the motion we have tabled. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u56	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Azuga, representing the EH Collect Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. I shall begin with a preceding point, and it is often with what logic is brought about in this legislature. For I do not find any great logic to represent a motive when we are face to show what the unions of the border say, that is to say, we shall hear the unions of the border within a week, but about an enterprise which we have already discussed and approved here. I'm not going to say, like the head physician of the Beltán de Heedias in the interpelation, that Mrs. Llanos is a spokesman of unions, but I'm saying that today's initiative has silenced the voice of the unions, that she has taken care of what they have to tell us next week. Get to the point. Today the plan of plan 2016 brings us back to discussion, PP. PP rejects the changes which this plan brings, it is not clear that because they are short or that they are too far off, because he thinks that in the border nothing is better than not to change, because they seem to be impalpable in Eliot Ness. Miss Llanos contains the inductions of the dysfunctions of the medianpresis, the attention of the citizens, the closing of the police, the controls, and at least she brought in the intermediary of the intermediary of certain scandals, or a director of human resources, to be included in the Tribunal courts of Bilbo. I won't take any importance from these facts, but it seems as if they were somehow isolated problems, and I don't want them to be taken in an isolated way. Does he have problems with bordering? Yeah, sure. Is the edge in a conflict situation? Yeah, sure. I think that he is involved in a foolish, insurgent inertia, and that all the problems accumulated in old times have now, in this new situation, exploded. He who had not been cleansed before, is beginning to rot now. It's got problems with borderings, but not isolated problems, it's got commercial problems, and instead of repairing them, it's going forward, it's running away. The unions, PP, and PSE plan certain specific problems. The bureau doesn't even approve of them. I think the problem lies in the standard of the edge, and the problem must be taken as a whole. When the plan of plan 2016 was announced in 2013, it was performed at a specific political point. For a few months and he had taken the important decision of leaving armed activity, which changed the parameters of the Edge's work. By hiding this incident, without taking any notice of it, a program presented itself to us. They plan to change, but not to mention the motives or motives of change. It hides itself that the edge has been used as a political police officer for many years, and that has spread a abyss between the edge and the population. The tools that the border has used, the attitude it has had, the protocols that led it, the orders it has received do not agree with this new time, with a general frame of respect for human rights. The Horizon 2016 plan proposes a strong idea: to bring Ertzaintza closer. However, it does not stop to explain why such a distance had occurred if it was not to blame any other agent. Once the alleged excuse for distance has been completed, nothing has changed, there has been no self-assessment exercise, there has been no self-criticism exercise, if you prefer. Without a diagnosis that swallows it, the plan is only a mere flight forward. Perhaps an attempt has been made to deal with this re-adaptation, which is very cosmetic and immediately brought to the drawer of goodwill. I am referring to an initiative raised in the very nature of peace and coexistence, namely initiative number 12, which is entitled "Social commitment of Ertzaintza to coexistence and human rights". A commitment that spoke of human rights training and the ethical foundations of a police force for democratic coexistence, that spoke of the contribution that should be made in this new socio-political context to consolidate a culture of peace, coexistence and respect for human rights. An initiative that also established a programme of action in four actions: appointment of a working group, development of a training programme on human rights and ethical foundations, implementation of the participatory programme, activation of the social commitment programme. None of this has been implemented. None of these options have even been put in place. An initiative, this twelfth, of the Peace and Co-existence Plan, which was assured, was to marry the global strategic plan that is currently being prepared within the Ertzaintza, no doubt referring to this Horizon 2016 plan. A pretension to coordinate one and the other, which never came to a close. Why is Ertzaintza or the department reluctant, is it elusive to develop this initiative? What are the tensions, internal or external reluctances that prohibit, that prevent this peace plan initiative from materializing? The Horizon 2016 plan obviated all these elements, giving a unique and exclusive response to personnel, internal organization, organizational chart, a mere reorganisation of personnel, in order to maintain the same functions identically. An internal re-adaptation of Ertzaintza, a re-adaptation perhaps of its divisions, a cosmetic exercise so that it seems to change something, when in reality it is not changing anything. An exercise of pure catapardism. We reported at his moment that this plan of 2016 did not presuppose any profound change. He doesn't suppose a change in the mentality of the police. It doesn't apply to real crime rates. It's not the kind of material you use. They don't consider the protocols and operations that were used in the previous days. He doesn't plan any co-operative or co-ordination with the town police. He won't let this town out of sight, with what attitude the border and the department will take to those police who are called to receive orders. It doesn't give a recipe to make any rationalization to this chaotic police map in this town. Then we said it and now I repeat, a lost chance. The unions protest and conjure this plan as the origin of all their problems. There may be internal organizational issues that seem inappropriate to them, I do not doubt it; perhaps I do doubt whether they have such an assignment. However, they are also not for an in-depth review of the problems facing Ertzaintza. The problem, the main one, adapted to these other problems or minor scandals, is perhaps reduced to the imposition of new working conditions or, more specifically, to pay conditions with which the unions seem to be very opposed. A debate that last occurred, in the Ares era, in 2011, was struck by a stalwart. A situation that the department now, by the logical rigors of the crisis, cannot affect in the same way. Thus, a struggle is drawn between unions, who appeal to chaos, with the magnification of punctual facts, and in front of it the department, which gathers statistics. Adjacent issues were discussed, but the real conflict in Ertzaintza certainly did not confront it. Curious, moreover, that it explodes now at a time when the one that has always been described as the first problem or the first enemy of the Ertzaintza has disappeared. This problem is then evident, but it refuses to give an in-depth debate. There is an intense debate on what police model this country needs, on the ambitious root reforms to be faced in Ertzaintza. A tension, a conflict between an Ertzaintza that requires intense purification and a department that does not dare to face it. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u58	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Zurrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u59	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Sailburu andrea, legebiltzarkideok, evierdi on guztioi. Allow me, Mrs Llanos, to use a phrase that usually uses a colleague of yours who is not, Mr Semper, who says that we are living on the day of the marmot. And when I heard him, I didn't know if we were on April 24th or on May 28th, because it's practically a reproduction of the same thing that was said at the time. First of all, I would like to briefly contextualize the subject. After the autonomic elections of October 2012, and continuing with a tradition of Ertzaintza that we are proud of, the new Basque Government took on the challenge of transforming the Ertzaintza into a closer and more street-based preventive police, following the consolidated cessation of terrorist violence by ETA. To carry out this transformation, it was necessary to create a strategic plan of the Ertzaintza, which was finally called Horizon 2016. Three essential things to push: the security of the citizens, the inquiry and the information, and the establishment of a model of management. I would also like to do a nuance on what I said that this plan was first presented to the media. The master lines of this plan were presented by the Security Adviser to the Commission on Institutions, Security and Justice on 4 February and to a hundred police commanders of the Ertzaintza on 5 February at the Erandio plant. A participatory methodology was chosen to carry it out. And after defining the participating team – eight ertzainas with positions of responsibility, i.e. born of an internal reflection – the development of strategic reflection took place. After approval of the proposal for a strategic plan, it was disseminated among the agents, indicating a time frame for collecting ideas of improvement, suggestions and contributions, a period that lasted for a period of just over a month and where a total of 47 contributions were collected from 27 different units and from people of all scales and categories, some of which were incorporated into the final document, which subsequently began its implementation with different actions. And as a dynamic plan, work continues to update, rationalize and adapt it to new times. As a result, among other things, of its implementation and of the organizational changes resulting from it, there have been union criticisms, of which you, Mrs Llanos, as has been pointed out several times here, have become a parliamentary spokesman. He said that the organization of the Ertzaintza has worsened, that police efficiency has been reduced, that the service to the police stations has worsened, that they are not given tools to make the investigation, that prevention is a failure, that citizen complaints have increased, that in the Ertzaintza everything is ultimately worse, that there is insecurity, chaos, etc. Look, Mrs Llanos, in the face of that thick and easy criticism, which you also use to attack the government, we are going to give you data. Some of them were facilitated by the Counsellor on 24 April, on the occasion of her parliamentary inquiry, but I will repeat them to her, because I think they are very important and interesting. Firstly, according to the latest Euskobarometer, 61% of respondents approve of Ertzaintza, being one of the best rated Basque institutions. The second is, Euskadin is a security of the three first problems. It's only two out of 100 people. The citizen's security recovery is better than the old one. Eso es lo que dicen los ciudads y Ciudadas vascas. Thirdly, the crime and misconduct rate continues the downward trend, and in the first quarter of this year 2015 it has fallen by more than 8% compared to the crime and slightly more than 4% compared to the crime, compared to the 2014 data in the same period. As a result, in 2014 the rate of crime and faults per 1,000 inhabitants was reduced by 2.17%, at a rate of 39.65 crime and faults per 1,000 inhabitants, compared with 48 rates in the Spanish State and well below the average of the most advanced countries in Community Europe. Fourthly, and in a matter perhaps even more sensitive in terms of the social perception of public security, as the European Union calls violent crime – crimes of injury, sexual assault and robbery with violence or intimidation – in the first quarter of this year almost 17% has fallen compared to the same period of the previous year, taking into account that in the financial year 2014 more than 17%, 622 fewer crimes have fallen. Perhaps the preventive work developed, which they say is in so much failure, can have something to do with these numbers. Citizen complaints. He said there were citizen complaints. It is logical that there are complaints and should be important to correct possible errors and improve service. During 2014 they amounted to 388. It is true that they have increased by 31%, but we are not going to be left with the percentage, but with the quantitative. We are talking about just over one complaint a day, and with respect to the previous year just over 90 complaints, of a total of more than 86,000 complaints processed in the 41 public care centres of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. Finally, the polls made by the edge, whether made by charges or made six months from there, show that satisfaction is a high grade, by getting more than 10 points higher than 8.5. These are the objective data, Mrs Llanos, without entering into any other kind of assessments or assessments. Do you think they're just image and pure economics? Another significant fact. In that period of allegations, suggestions, contributions, etc., to which I referred at the beginning, do you know how many contributions the unions made? None. Criticisms in negative all, but contributions in positive, none. And the strategic plan consists of four strategic axes, as you know, of which 33 strategic objectives and a large number of concrete actions are emerging for its development. Positive contributions to improve, not simple disqualifications in a thick and easy way. It is obvious, and you were saying, that there is much to improve, but with this data that I have presented to you, truly and sincerely you, Mrs. Llanos, do you think that Ertzaintza is a chaos and a disaster? Its effectiveness is worse based on what? To be told by the unions? As much as you want to present another panorama, with caution and prudence we can say that Euskadi is a reasonably safe country and this is the result of the work, effort and professionalism of the agents and agents of Ertzaintza. But it is also fair to recognize the value and development of strategic plans and those responsible for the organization of the structure and the organization of work for the achievement of these results. Therefore, our amendment urges the Government to continue to consolidate this management model, based on participation, leadership and continuous improvement, in line with the guidelines of the Basque General Public Security Plan, with the ultimate aim of ensuring always the protection and security necessary to increase the well-being and strengthen the coexistence of Basque citizens, which is the mission that this plan establishes to the Ertzaintza as an integral police force of Basque, as set out in article 17 of the Statute of Gernika. A police force committed to the society it serves; a police force to promote peace, coexistence, security and well-being of people, as well as articles 3 and 4 of the Basque Police Act. As far as Mr Arzuaga was concerned, it is clear that EH Bildu has many prejudices and that it will be difficult for them to leave behind the history of confrontation with the Basque police. I will not repeat, a few weeks ago on the occasion of another subject, what has been his attitude in recent years towards Ertzaintza. Only to urge them to go quickly in this matter and to recognize Ertzaintza as the integral police of this country. He says that Ertzaintza has problems, that it has a conflictive situation, a perverse inertia. I would say that is his point of view and it would be necessary to analyze the causes and provoked by whom. He says the problem is the police model. Ours is clear, I just told you what the Ertzaintza mission is in the Horizon 2016 plan. What's yours? Over the last few months and with their initiatives we are clear what theirs is. He says it's a political police. No, I'm sorry. Fulfilling and enforcing the laws, persecuting those who disturb public order and disturb the security of Basques and Basques, is not being a political police, it is fulfilling their duty. Besterik ez, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u60	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing to the non-correction teams, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u61	Thank you, President. Only to say that I will support with my vote the original motion of the People's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u62	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs. Gallastegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u63	Thank you, President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. To make it clear from the outset and to make it clear that there is no doubt: the Socialists do not come to this House to act as trade unionists. This Parliament is not part of any negotiating table, and of course neither the parties nor the political representatives can usurp that function which constitutionally belongs to the legal representatives of the workers, in this case to the union representatives of the Ertzaintza. But we are going to support the motion put forward, because it is simple, it is very clear and the only thing he asks is for these representatives to be treated, and that there should be no, in the end, a very important group of public workers. And furthermore, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time, in a few days' time, we will once again have the opportunity to hear those complaints out loud. That we do not believe, in no way do we believe that they can be answered, for example, with that mantra of the privilege in which public employees live, just because they retain their jobs and earn more than those dependent on private employers. We have once told you from this rostrum, we have told the Government that you have a serious management problem with these public jobs, with all public jobs. And above all they have a problem because they do not seem to understand well that if there are such public jobs it is because there is a public service to provide to the citizenry. We just saw a gesture with Lanbide. You have, of course, started a slight sham with the call of the RPT, attending so far unanimously unmet unanimous position, in addition to all the unions, which had been warning you for a long time that they were making a huge mistake. However, it does not appear that they have done so with other employees, such as public radio employees and also with other employees, such as health unions, with whom they maintain and continue to maintain open fronts. Unions that maintain, by the way, another position also unanimous. And in the face of these problems, as I say, the government always talks about the same thing: it talks about privileges. They do not talk about human resources or the organization needed to cover public services that guarantee citizens' rights. Nor do they speak of the conditions under which such services are provided. Ladies and gentlemen, I also believe that this is something that I believe there is no doubt that the Horizon 2016 plan has many shortcomings. It has organizational deficiencies in the field of research, in the shared management of police stations, or as they prefer, if they prefer to call it in the cuts that have resulted in the shared management of police stations. It has shortcomings in the forecasting and training of the agents, it has deficiencies in the direct care of the citizenry, it has deficiencies in the handling of complaints. But that is not the object, ladies and gentlemen, of today's debate. We'll talk about this on other occasions. Because what really matters is that the Horizon 2016 plan, for the purposes of this initiative today, is an organizational proposal of the government for an essential public service, that in order for it to arrive at a good place must have the collaboration, not with the opposition and unanimous disagreement, of the workers concerned; and must also have sufficient political support to endorse that management. And for the time being, there's not one thing or the other. What you do have, and we see that every Thursday, is a permanent proposal on the street and many serious unsolved doubts in this House. I do not know whether these doubts are susceptible to an amendment of the whole, as Mrs Llanos said, but they do have an entity sufficient for the Government to take seriously a reconsideration of its own plan. Indeed, ladies and gentlemen, this plan remains one year in force, but in the more than two years since it was approved we have hardly any record more than the collection of statistics on police activity that do not correspond to the daily experiences in the police stations. Not with the daily experiences in the police stations of the agents who provide the services themselves, not even with the experiences of the people who go to these police stations to process their complaints or whatever they have to do in these police stations. And when the latest data indicates that citizen complaints have increased by 60% in recent years, something will have to be done. Especially given that there are many citizens who have stopped making complaints because of this decline in cuts, and so on, because only in order to file the complaint that is going to be the subject of that complaint have had to wait a long time. When the data indicate that the complaints have increased, ladies and gentlemen, it is not worth doing generic surveys and talking about the most valued institution. That has nothing to do with efficiency. I share with the counselor that our police must adapt their tasks to the fortunate scenario in which a terrorist gang and its kidnappers cease to be the center of police activity. And I also believe that the public employee should know that his/her own function is subject to service needs, geographical mobility, functional mobility, etc.; that he/she should be perfectly adaptable to any circumstances that require changing modes of operation to improve efficiency. What makes me different from you, counselor, is that I think that public employees know it perfectly, they are perfectly aware of it. And I also believe that by standing on the street, touching the ground, they have the best antennas and, if I may also, the best radars to detect what does not work. But that does not mean in any way that they are willing to leave themselves on the road. I could have doubts about this, as has happened at other times in the history of our police, if the unions maintained different positions. But all these doubts dispel me fundamentally because there is a unity of trade union action which in itself would like many sectors of economic and productive activity. What we are considering here today is to attend to what those who say that they should provide the security service to all of us, to all of the Basques, to Basque citizenship. They are being asked to listen to them, to listen to them. It is not asking for all its demands to be complied with, it is not asking this Parliament to interfere in the negotiation in which the department and the power stations must take part. In short, we are asking the Ertzaintza to fulfil its protective role, to guarantee our security and to guarantee the exercise of our rights and freedoms, and to do so with the input and participation of the agents, no more or less. In ten days we'll listen to them. And what we want and what we ask is for the department to start again that approach maneuver, to take the helm and approach the definitive stork with interest, counselor, with interest to lead a conflict that, if we let it pass, will tend to be conquered. And you also know that that is not good, because the enquisition has never been good to achieve the ultimate goal, which is nothing other than the optimal provision of service. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already announced at the beginning of the speech, we will support the motion of the Group of the European People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u65	Thanks again. And I'm gonna start with a series of maths. I have not spoken of an amendment to the whole of the 2016 Plan, that we are proposing an amendment to the whole. I said that some unions here had proposed an amendment to the whole. As I did not mention that there was chaos, but that some unions here had spoken of chaos. And that is why it is precisely in my proposal that I do not say that this plan should be completely eliminated or reformulated, but that the relevant amendments should be made and that all possible actors should be heard. Because I believe that here I do not know whether the confusion is intentional or not, but the unions make contributions in two different ways. One, they make demands, which we see every week at the door of this Parliament, about their working conditions. That, Mr Arzuaga – and then I will refer to you – is so concerned that it is your political group with the labour rights of all civil servants and workers, why, however, when it comes to Ertzaintza you fully understand that the cuts and the difficult economic situation that we are going through can undermine those labour rights? Why, because they're cops? For you, the status of a police officer outweighs the status of a worker and, therefore, they can be deprived of their labour rights. And what you're going to come here to talk about next week is just about that, about your job demands. And here I have set out the conclusions of your speech in this House on another aspect, which is the very structure and organisation of the Ertzaintza, which came here because this group and other political groups, I am aware, have come to present their complaints, but which they have not been able to make to the council, because the council says that they cannot interfere in that. And we are asking for the appearance in this House, so that all political groups can listen to it. And the fruit of those appearances, the fruit of news that we see from non-unionized agents who say that they are living the worst time in terms of the working conditions and the structure and organization of the Ertzaintza, and of conversations that come to me from agents who are not unionized, making a compilation of this, I have put on this table. And of course I have reproduced the interpellation. Because I explained to the counselor what we thought the Ertzaintza's biggest dysfunctions were, and the counselor as the one who hears rain, that everything works perfectly, that everything is phenomenal. But it is that even you in your initiative, the same, continue to consolidate the management model. If the management model that must continue to be consolidated is the one that has time, no, because it has many dysfunctions, it has many dysfunctions. And I have referred here exclusively to this. Just like when I called the council, I did talk about those scandals and we'll have a chance to talk later, today I haven't mentioned it, I've only referred to the Horizon 2016 plan. And look, Mr. Arzuaga, when you say there's no excuse for distance anymore. But do you call it an apology for killing two ertzainas in a control, or in a port, or in the port of Herrera? Do you have the courage to call that an apology? And listen to me, it is true that it was not so easy to patrol the streets, because there was that threat, but the Ertzaintza is not now the most valued institution fruit of the enormous work of this Government, no, the Ertzaintza has been a very valued institution from the very beginning. And she's been a close cop practically from the start. And of course, you say "a new re-adaptation of the police." To what? What do you think the police have to do, Mr. Arzuaga? Kneeling around and doing nothing? The complaints are that they have only risen by 31%, 60% since the 2016 Horizon plan was put in place. Look, if in other places where you are part of the opposition, nationalist gentlemen, you tell them that in that institution the complaint about it has increased by 31%, you were climbing up the walls and saying no more harmful management, but asking for the head of anyone. And here it has only risen by 31%, despite the difficulty that they have to deal with these complaints, I tell you, they have. Look, what I propose here is precisely what you say is that we need to improve. For the continuous improvement is to see what doesn't work well and try to make it work better. And there are things that unanimously, beyond the labour claims that we will then have the opportunity to hear here in this House, beyond those labour claims, all the unions have exposed these dysfunctions. And to improve, the first thing to do is to recognize what is not being done well, taking into account the contribution of the unions, which are representatives of the agents, but also of the agents themselves, articulating formulas to listen to them. Also of the citizenry, through their complaints. And taking all that into account, to reformulate a structure that is currently producing problems and causing dysfunctions, in order to ensure what does have to be the role of the police, of our police, which, of course, has been linked and committed to human rights for a very long time, which are the rights and freedoms of citizens, which the agents of Ertzaintza do impeccably. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u66	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u67	Thank you again, Mr. President. Here, on the one hand, there seems to be a punctual problem, that some things are bad, including the internal and internal use of arrangement, and even the state of affairs in question. But, on the other hand, the statistics seem to be perfect, it seems to be a kind of perfect edge-edge in the results. Well, there may also be an adaptation to correct certain things, and to see at least the results and resources in what balance they should be. You know what our position is because we even introduced it in the budget, because we think that border, compared with other departments, is superduced. And in order to give this discussion, it is true, we need a diagnosis, we must make a reading about the situation, and we think that we must give a profound discussion and reflection about the pattern, which is what we defend. Mr. Galrill, I'd like to ask you a question. Is there a conflict in the border? Is there a conflict between the edge, the effective and the section? I see them, I see them on the street. Is this conflict false? Is it for good? For I see Mr. Urkullu, the President, with whom he is suffering in an expression of impatience. Looks like there's really a problem. And I think that in the very heart of this question there is a difference in which bordering has been used from a political point of view, because there have been decisions and political employments. You once doubted whether I was a defender of human rights here and there in another discussion. And taking advantage of the last shift I couldn't answer, you also said where I was while the edge was suffering from attacks. I need to tell you something, because it's hard to get used to it, it's hard to support you while you're beating the edge. Because that was what we saw a week ago at Gasteto's. Because this was here, especially in the new situation, because old models are used by the Edges. Here we saw the violence of the edge, the deportability of the edge we saw here, the pride of the edge, driven by political resolutions. An attitude that we were able to witness a week ago here in Gasteiz against a peaceful, disobedient, certainly disobedient, but peaceful protest. We have been able to see what is the autonomy of Ertzaintza in making its decisions, how it operates as an integral police, which certainly accepts all kinds of charges, without making any distinction as to the legitimacy, what is the impact it makes on the human rights of the citizens of this country, of Euskal Herria. How they affect Basque society, what have been the decisions that have also been taken in this Parliament and which also affect those operations that Ertzaintza does not hesitate to implement. Tomorrow I will talk about this long and stretched out with the counselor – not long and stretched out, because it will be in time to give us a question – but I do want to ask you a question: if this is the Ertzaintza for the coexistence of which speaks the plan of action number 12 of the Plan of Peace and Coexistence. That initiative number 12 which, as I said earlier, has not taken a single step at all and which is precisely what was verified the other day in the action of the mobile brigade right here in Gasteiz against Gasteizko Harresia. We want a public Basque police service, right, that acts here exclusively, with the withdrawal of other security forces that today have no role in this town. We want a public service of Basque police that conforms and that is going to be built by the policemen who today operate here at the autonomous level and also at the local level. We want to face this problem, we want to face this conflict, but we want to do it in its entirety and in its full depth. Besterik ez, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u68	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Zurrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u69	Eskerrik asko. Mrs Llanos, briefly, refers to the fact that changes must be made from agreement and consensus, that we must recognise what is not being done well, very interesting reflections. I was talking about 31 %. Logically, 31 % is not the same as 80,000 as 300. That's why I told him that the percentage then has to be moved to specific numbers. I would like to make it clear that there is no doubt in our approach that trade unions have every right in the world to make their labour and economic demands, whether they are workers of any kind, police or firefighters or whatever. While there are attitudes that we also have to show that we do not share and that I do not think they benefit precisely the image of the institution they represent. And next week we will also highlight it in front of the unions that appear. I believe that these practices, as well as the negative and unfair criticisms, serve to defile and discredit an image that has been achieved with great effort to make it one of the most valued institutions. And this has been taken care of so far, hasn't it, Mr. Arzuaga? He says it's better, of course, I think I've made it clear, that there's obviously a lot to improve and in that line you're working on and for that line you want to count on everyone and everyone. What's the conflict? It is clear that there is conflict, not between the staff and the council, I would tie it more closely between the unions and the council. What is the cause of this labor conflict? This is where it's made clear. Mrs. Llanos says it's the Horizon 2016 plan. I believe that the background comes from another place, from the labour and economic cuts posed by the policies imposed, not precisely by mutual agreement and assumption, but imposed precisely by the Spanish government of its own party, the People's Party, Mrs Llanos. He said he's a political cop. I have told you before what the mission of the police is: to enforce and enforce the law and to prevent public security from being altered by failing to comply with that law. And we can say with satisfaction that, thanks to the Ertzaintza effort, we have been able to guarantee that status even though some have wanted to prevent that development. Since he referred to last week's debate or two weeks ago, he told him that from now on, welcome to the club to be a human rights defender, and it seemed to us very good that human rights have been defended since Bildu. But what I was telling you was that until then where I'd been. And I was going out with a question after that with the theme of the popular wall. And I will also answer you with another very easy and very simple question: you will know why you don't make popular walls in Nafarroa. That's the answer I give you to what you're asking. As for Mrs Gallastegui, she talks about generic surveys. Naturally generic surveys value citizen perception and in all cases are usable and not only when we are interested, in all cases we have to take them into account. And we also gave him concrete data on crime and misconduct rates and what their evolution is in the face of the disaster, the chaos that supposedly invades the Ertzaintza. It does not match the data and the crime rate we have for 1,000 inhabitants. And you know very well where most of the union criticisms come from, here it has been mentioned above. Perhaps there has been a lack of transparency, a transparency that is so much demanded at times. And that, of those muds, these muds. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u70	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Mrs. Gallastegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u71	Thanks again. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. Indeed, Mr. Zorrilla, there are things that I do not like and that I can even share with you. But what is true is that there is a conflict and that conflict is not being resolved. And you as a government have the responsibility and the obligation to take steps to try the agreement. Another thing is that the agreement will not be reached later, but its obligation and responsibility as a Government is to try and, if possible, to ensure that an institution such as the Ertzaintza is not as it is, that is, with the whole world with the weapons up, never better said. Because the truth is that day and day also occur situations that show live and eloquent that the conflict exists and does not at the moment have many faces to be solved. And the responsibility of the unions is what it is, but the responsibility of the government is what it is, because it is ultimately the employer, and here we all fill our mouths when we have to talk about demanding employers to guarantee workers' labour and economic rights. For this reason, I was very surprised that a member of the left abertzale like you, Mr Arzuaga, said without blush and without tearing his clothes..., because I was astonished and scattered, but absolutely perplexed, when I heard you say that here there are things that are solved at the stroke of a stalwart. You have said that collective bargaining and the resolution of a number of discrepancies between employers and workers on economic issues are solved by a slash of stalwart. And that's very ugly, Mr. Arzuaga, because that's like telling the workers that they are bought and the unions..., let's go, compare them with the mafia unions, those of the port stablers that we saw in the law of silence in the American ports. Hey, a little respect, please. I'm a unionist. I've been a member of the UGT for decades and I've only seen that unions claim what they have to claim. And employers are under an obligation to try to reach agreements. And if we all put ourselves in a position that the most important thing to be able to reach agreements is collective bargaining, let's give it a way. Because what is true is that the Ertzaintza is not plunged into chaos, I have never said that, nor will I say it, nor can I think of it. That that's also something else, that we have to be careful about the things that we think we say, because then what happens happens and it's the second time we're talking about this issue. But what I am saying is that there is an important conflict that needs to be resolved. And that the main responsibility and responsibility rests above all with the Government. And what we are asking of you only and exclusively from the Socialist Group on this initiative, which we will already be discussing, as I say, the rest of the matters relating to the organisation, the functioning of the Ertzaintza in other initiatives or appearances that we will have the opportunity to discuss, even in the end, whatever it is, what we are asking you to do is to speak and try to negotiate, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. I'm going to put in one more thing, because they tell me it's too short. Number of points in theme list: "The legal proposal made by the Socialists of the Eussalia as a team of Parliaments, to see about the foaming cards for the people who are uninjured. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Sarasa, the Basque Socialist, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u73	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Egun on, ladies and gentlemen. And very briefly, the Socialists are presenting this initiative in this Parliament in view of the numerous requests that we have received from people with severe visual disabilities living in our Autonomous Community, considering them to be in a situation of discrimination with regard to people with severe visual disabilities living in other communities, where the right to obtain such a parking card for people with visual disabilities is a rule, and also being able to use that card in our Autonomous Community. Not so on the other hand, that is, a person who lives in Andalusia and has the card can park in the Basque Country, but a person who hasn't got that card here, can't even park in Andalusia either. Act No. 20/1997 of 4 December 1997 on the Promotion of Accessibility of the Basque Country obliges the public authorities to make a parking reservation for the exclusive use of vehicles of persons with reduced mobility. The 1998 recommendation of the Council of the European Union also indicates as necessary the mutual recognition of the Member States of the European Union of the parking card for persons with disabilities, in accordance with a uniform Community model, so that such persons could enjoy throughout the Community the facilities which give them the right to parking in accordance with the national rules in force in the country in which they are located. In compliance with these provisions and by virtue of our powers in the field of the normative development and planning of the social services attributed by Law 5/1996, the Basque Government issued Decree 256/2000, which aims to regulate the single parking card for persons with disabilities and its adaptation to the Community model, corresponding to its granting, in accordance with the provisions of Article 6, to the municipalities where the person concerned resides and in accordance with the procedure and model regulated in that decree. Cards issued by the municipalities of the Basque Country shall be valid in all municipalities of the Basque Autonomous Community, throughout the Spanish territory and in the Member States of the European Union, in the terms established by the respective municipalities of the Basque Autonomous Community in respect of the management and movement of vehicles. The Government of Spain adopted in December 2014 the Royal Decree regulating the basic conditions for issuing and using parking cards for persons with disabilities. The Basque Government, considering that the Spanish Government exceeds its limits in its regulation and does not respect the exclusive competence of Euskadi in the field of social assistance as set out in Article 10.12 of the Statute of Autonomy, in accordance with the agreement reached at the Governing Council of 10 February, requested the Spanish Government to repeal several articles of the provisions of this Royal Decree of 2014. The Government of Spain responded on 13 March by rejecting this request, on the basis that the rule has a cross-cutting character and that in the Royal Decree it creates a parking card valid for the entire national territory, facilitating the movement by car of persons with disabilities and ensuring the effective enjoyment of their rights. In addition, he said that it was a regulation of the minimum essential aspects and that each autonomous community could contemplate them. That is why we have presented this initiative. In addition, I would like to say that at present the parking cards granted to people with visual disabilities have a minimum of seven points in the mobility bar in Araba and Bizkaia, while in Gipuzkoa there are six, in the event that in Gipuzkoa a person with six points can obtain a parking card and in Araba and Bizkaia there is no, that is also a discrimination that exists in our Community. There is also the fact that most people with acute visual disabilities, although having a considerable mobility problem, do not reach the minimum mobility bars established and therefore do not have the right to a parking card in Euskadi, which prevents them, in the same way, from repeating, parking in the reserved areas of other autonomous communities. However, we are seeing cases that people with visual disabilities, as I said, from Andalusia, Catalonia, Extremadura, Asturias, etc., are using these places in our Autonomous Community. Sufficient grounds for this Parliament to urge the Basque Government to amend without further delay Decree 256/2000 of 5 December, which regulates the parking card for persons with disabilities and adapts to the uniform community model, so that it specifically provides for persons with serious visual disabilities as beneficiaries of parking cards for persons with disabilities. We have signed an agreement with the Basque Nationalist group, which is the only amending group, and the rest of the groups have already announced that they will support it. We therefore believe that it is a good initiative, that it is an initiative that, above all, comes out in the defence of the rights of the people who are claiming it, and now let us only hope that the Basque Government will be able to amend this letter as soon as possible. Eskerrik asko
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, Madame Argrei, the Euner, who represents the group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u75	Thank you, Mr. President. In the discussion of the other proposition, as well as the foaming cards in which the Social Party presents itself, we must first say that we agree with what is basically demanded by the speaker. I'm sure it's going to work to change the 256/2000 Decree, because it's been talking to the sector. In addition to the right to having foaming tickets for people with trouble to see, the funk would like to add other interesting changes to the new decree, which will always be beneficial. Our policy has to adapt to the Decree of 1056/2004 king and that's what's happening. The first passing regulation of the royal decree gives a year's time to adapt. So there's still time. Let us let the government do its work, talk to the sector, and then change them together as best possible in the new decree. The Government is working to bring Decree 256/2000 into line with the recently adopted Royal Decree 1056/2014 of 12 December, which regulates the basic conditions for the issuance and use of parking cards for persons with disabilities. It aims to establish the basic conditions of the legal regime applicable to the parking card for motor vehicles for persons with reduced mobility, in order to ensure equality throughout the territory of the State in the use of the parking card. The Royal Decree contains three new substantive aspects. On the one hand, parking cards for people with acute visual disabilities. In addition, the same and identical right for natural and legal persons engaged in the collective transport of persons with disabilities and providing social services for the promotion of personal autonomy and attention to dependence. And third, introduction of the provisional parking card assumption. That is why we said that we agree with the content of the original initiative. It is important that people with acute visual disabilities have access to parking cards. But, of course, adaptation means taking into account each and every one of the developments to which we have referred and it is not going to be confined only to the issue of people with visual disabilities, which will of course also be taken into account in the new rule being drafted by the Government and which, we have already announced, will take the form of a decree. In any case, this new decree, which is being drafted, is not merely an adaptation to the Royal Decree 1056/2014, but is intended to also incorporate the requirements and conditions of use, as well as the rights and obligations of the persons holding the parking card as set out in that Royal Decree. But in addition, it will introduce new changes with respect to this and the current Decree 256. Specifically, the new decree seeks to broaden the case of persons entitled to obtain and use the parking card. Thus, in the context of persons with reduced mobility, it is envisaged that persons under three years of age who are continuously dependent on technical equipment essential for their vital functions, such as special wheelchairs or breathing equipment, or who have been assessed for their severity with disabilities in class four or five by serious or very serious pathology. We see that the government, not only adapting the 256/2000 Decree, will renew and improve. For all that has been explained, it has been easy to sign a medium with the Social Party, and we hope it will be protected by the rest of the teams. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing the teams that don't run, Mists... he must not speak. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs. Ruiz, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u77	I am speaking briefly from the bench, only to show our favourable position, which, from the moment we receive the Socialist Group's initiative, is more than justified. And with Mrs Sarasua's intervention it is clear that the least better the delay, because there is a comparative aggravation of the people concerned and that they are awaiting what we are doing today in this plenary. I am therefore glad that the amending group has reached an agreement with the proposer. And we're just gonna support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. The representative of the EH team, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u79	With your permission, I'll take the seat, too. Between the principles which govern the system of social services, there is a principle of equality and universality. The collected EH supposes this principle to be fundamental, and according to it, we believe that we ought to take the measures of positive action to prevent and transcend the shores of society. In this sense, and tied to the subject of today, we can clearly see that the rights of persons who have functional character are to be granted, including people who have the most discrepancy to see. If the order mentioned today is changed, people who have the inability to see can get a parking ticket according to the principle of equality. That's why we'll cover the medium that's signed, too. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. So, when you get back to the second, you want someone to participate in the answering shift? No. Then we'll ring the doorbell to see if it's okay. [[Berber]] We're going to vote. Second point on the subject list: "Mutation, introduced by the members of Laura Garrido Knörr Euspula Group, on the removal of good names and pressure of the activity of justice." We'll vote for half-way corrections that have signed Euscala Populars and Basque Socialists and Mists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 48; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u81	So we're not allowed to rectification in the middle of the line. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u82	So he didn't accept it. Next, the eulogy Abrita, which is the full correction of the party. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 48; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u83	Integer correction not allowed. Third point in theme list: "Mution, introduced by Gorka Maniroy's Misto-UPyD members, the model of state which the President defends for the whole of Spain." The original text of Mr. Maniro Labayen's motion is put into vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters 1, 74; the opponents are white, 0; abstenations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u84	Original text not allowed. Next up, the Basque Socialists will vote for the full correction of the group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 16; the opposites are 48; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u85	It's not accepted socializing correction. Next up, the full correction of the Basque Popular Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters 10; the opponents are 65; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u86	No popular integer correction allowed. "Mutation, my brother, is introduced by the members of the Basque Team, the organization of the Border, and the plan of Plan 2016." The original text of Mrs. Llanos Gómez's motion is put into vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 48; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u87	The original text was not accepted. Next up, we vote for the full value of the EH Collect Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes are 75; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 54; white; 0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u88	The correction to the EH Shades integer was not accepted. And in the end, Eural patriot will vote for the full correction of the group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 74; the votes given are 75; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 48; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u89	Integer correction not allowed. Number of points in theme list: "The legal proposal made by the Socialists of the Euscals to see about the parking tickets for the people who are indemnity." We're going to have a middle-class correction signed by Basque Socialists and Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the compositions, 74; the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0,0; white; 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u90	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. The whole meeting is interrupted until four o'clock. The meeting was interrupted at two and twenty in the afternoon. At four o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u91	The seventh point on the theme list: "Punish another proposition of the law of the legislature, which is worth the victims of violent disappearance, concerning justice and observation. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Arzuga, representative of the EH Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u92	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. The three different institutions of the United Nations have visited the Spanish State a few months ago, and after that they made a clear demand, which was at the beginning of 2014. The party for the disappearances of violence or against the will was in the Basque Country, and made an official visit to this House of Laws, at the Committee of Human Rights, where they were able to stay with us. The editor of Pablo de Greiff, indeed, of justice, observation, and assurance that he would not again be present, even to the Spanish State. Lastly, the commission for the violent disappearances of the United Nations made a temporary examination of the Spanish Kingdom, and even extended recommendations. After the fascist blow and the crime against humanity that had occurred during the long night of franchise. They claimed that these crimes do not prescribe according to the international legislation, and therefore ought to be judged or extradited by their authors. I am not a friend of Latins, but there is a principle in international law that is formulated with the Latin formula aut dedere aut judicare, that is, either extradited or tried. A state that is aware of the existence of perpetrators of crimes or judges or extradites them to be tried where justice operates. The problem is that the Kingdom of Spain neither extradites nor judges the crimes against humanity that occurred during Francoism, it does not act. Those United Nations mechanisms called for action and further stated that action should be taken by 25 November 2014. Nothing, silence on the part of the Spanish Government. I will be forgiven for the digression, but another debate today was about criticizing judicial decisions. Here, in this case, it is explicitly obvious, it is eluded to comply with these decisions. Again, it shows the treshold and importance that these international agencies attach to the topic, on 27 March, four United Nations rapporteurs and experts reiterated that request. In a document entitled "Spain must extradite or prosecute those responsible for serious human rights violations", they announced: "The Spanish State is obliged to extradite those responsible for serious human rights violations until measures are taken to guarantee access to justice and the right to the truth of the victims before the Spanish legal authorities". This decision was made public following the other decision taken by the Council of Ministers to reject the extradition of 17 Spanish citizens accused of the commission of international crimes during Francoism and demanded by the courts, in particular by the Argentine courts, in the exercise of the principle of universal jurisdiction. They noted that, under international law, it is imperative on the Kingdom of Spain, crimes such as enforced disappearances, summary executions, arbitrary executions, torture, abduction of minors, are crimes against humanity and are therefore imprescriptible and susceptible to amnesty laws or final laws. We are therefore faced with a legal problem, which is also linked to a political problem. The legal problem is represented by the Amnesty Act of 15 October 1977, which acts as a real plug, as a shutter so that this international obligation can be fulfilled. The political problem stems from the lack of will to address these recommendations of the organs of force and safeguard of international human rights, from the lack of political will to seek ways to implement these recommendations. Legal difficulty and lack of political will, which are also responsible. It is the PP that ignores international responsibilities. It is the PP who denies the truth, the justice, the memory to these victims. It is the PP who wants a scenario of absolute impunity for perpetrators of crimes against humanity or genocide during the Franco dictatorship. The memorylist movement of several independent governments and of the Basque Country accords almost unanimously with these proclamations. We have heard more than once of the Human Rights Committee of the legislature, accused of the laziness of the Spanish Common-wealth in this matter. The Spanish Kingdom must execute the international commitments to solve crimes against humanity, to protect the truth, justice, and memory of the victims. Even in the planet of peace and co-existence, or in its development, I admit that a program of historical memory appears, and that I am quite satisfied with its foundation and actions of its development. However, it is not a question of discourse, it is not merely a question of discourse, or of such plans, or of recommendations, that we shall face this tragedy. Thousands of crimes of enforced disappearances, thousands of summary executions, thousands of crimes of torture have been committed in the context of political repression, social, cultural persecution, systematic and widespread coercion during the Franco regime. These victims have names and surnames, these crimes are imprescriptible and not subject to amnesty. This is recognized by international legislation, which is claimed by the agencies that ensure respect for it. This has been seen by a court in Argentina, a State with great baggage and sensitivity to issues of memory, truth and justice, a country in which memory, truth and justice have been established. We can do more. The perpetrators of these crimes against humanity are identified and their whereabouts are also known. Like their victims, the perpetrators of these crimes have names and surnames. This is the case of former ministers José Utrera Molina and Rodolfo Martín Villa, specifically the latter claimed by the March 3rd massacre here in Gasteiz. I'm not going to talk about the family and political connections of both of them, because they're obvious. Interpol also requested the arrest and extradition of former police officer José Antonio González Pacheco, alias Billy el Niño, a torturer well known to Basque political activists, or former civilian guard Jesús Muñecas, famous here for practicing torture, among others Andoni Arrizabalaga, Itziarren Semea. The military José María Sánchez-Ventura Pascual, Fernando Suárez and Jesús Cejas Mohedano are claimed, for their part, for having signed the death sentence of Juan Paredes Txiki, and Ángel Otaegi, shot on September 27, 1975 and now recognized by the decree of victims of human rights abuses here, but without the possibility of obtaining real justice, as we can verify. As I say, known, identified, located. The Government of Spain provides and offers refuge to these torturers, to these murderers. The Spanish police disapprove of these arrest warrants. The D.A.'s looking the other way. Courts call themselves incompetent. As a result, this country provides protection and shelter for criminals who have committed very serious international crimes. Francoism, its executors, are protected by a cloak of impunity. They are installed with safe conduct in the Kingdom of Spain. As long as they stay in Spanish territory, nothing will happen. We brought this team back, and today we're back with the parlamentary EAJ team that I want to thank for. In it, as I say, we see what these international instances have asked for from the Spanish State. On the other hand, the text we receive is exactly the same as that which was approved of the Gastine City and the grand assemblies of Araba, with the voices of the EH, EAJ, PSE, and US, a few months ago. In it we extend the fundamental initiation, the focus of the missing ones we mentioned at the base, and also we bring other crimes against humanity: executions, tortures, child kidnapping, persecutions, and political repression. With this decision, we wish to renew today the crime against the humanity of franchise, the firm accusation against this regime which has committed the genocidium. We renew our commitment to those victims today to keep the memory of all the victims of Fancism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u93	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u94	Thank you, President. Indispensable prior matters worth noting before entering the heart of the matter. Mr Arzuaga, he draws attention to his political hypocrisy and his political cynicism when he talks about these issues. On the one hand, it tries to show some concern, even if it is imposed, by the victims of the decades-old Francoism, but nevertheless it remains absolutely silent in relation to the victims of yesterday's ETA or the day before yesterday, which clearly shows their cynicism and their political hypocrisy, which, by the way, has been widely demonstrated by yourself throughout this legislature. And this is the first thing to point out. On the one hand, he was willing to do justice to all the victims caused by Francoism, but, nevertheless, he was still throwing out a terrorist gang today. A terrorist gang whose dissolution is not yet required, a terrorist gang to which it does not request to be dissolved and a terrorist gang to which it does not require to surrender weapons. Its immense hypocrisy and its absolutely unbearable political cynicism should therefore be highlighted first of all. Secondly, you talk about the 1936 war, that is, avoid calling the Spanish Civil War a civil war, but the Spanish Civil War was a civil war between Spaniards, no matter how much you intend to manipulate history. Fascists against Democrats, but civil war after all. Thirdly, you say that the Spanish State has one of the largest numbers of enforced disappearances in the world. And that is not exactly the case, in any case, there would be enforced disappearances caused by the Franco regime that rose up against the legitimate Government of the Second Republic. Having said that, let us review, albeit briefly, the historical facts and make a brief chronology of what has happened in recent decades. Since the fascist uprising, passing through the Civil War, Francoist repression, dictatorship, crimes and the absence of freedoms, the struggle for the freedoms of a part of Spanish society, the transition, but also the Amnesty Law, the Historical Memory Law and, in recent times, the claim of some to bring grudges for mere partisan interests. The coup d'état of July 1936 was a military uprising directed against the Government of the Second Republic which emerged from the February elections of that year and whose partial failure led to the Spanish Civil War and, defeated by the Republic, to the establishment of the Franco dictatorship, which remained in power in Spain until its death in 1975. There has therefore been a fascist and anti-democratic uprising against a legitimate government, which has been repeatedly condemned by this House. And from there, of course, what we know: the cruel repression, the violation of basic rights and of citizens' freedoms, the dictatorship, the thousands of dead and retaliated, who have all our consideration, solidarity and support, and also the struggle for democratic freedoms and the commitment against the dictatorship and for the democracy of thousands of Spaniards. The Amnesty Act was adopted in 1977. Although at the time of its promulgation the law was considered necessary and positive for the settlement of democracy, over time its meaning changed for some, and I say that for some, and from there even requests have been made for the repeal of this Amnesty Law that we continue to defend. An important political, legal and public opinion sector, where UPyD is located, continues to regard it as an achievement of democratic opposition to Francoism, as well as as as a way to overcome the long confrontation suffered by the Spanish since 1936. In July 2011, the Galego Nationalist Block presented in the Congress of Deputies a proposal to repeal the law and the proposal was rejected by a large majority formed by parties of various political ideas. The result was 8 votes in favour, 320 against and 8 abstentions. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party stressed that the law was the way to overcome civil wars and that oblivion was reciprocal for both sides. Convergence and Union emphasized that the Historical Memory Act had already recognized the illegitimacy of the Francoist courts. The People's Party expressed its support for it and reproached the supporters of its repeal that they would again bring grudges. And the Basque Nationalist Party for its part considered that debate irrelevant. We defend the Amnesty Law, we share what the historian Santos Juliá did not write too much: "The Amnesty Law of October 1977 wanted to symbolize the beginning of a new era of concord, which some seem to want to break. The past was brought to the present, but with the intention of closing it down and closing a long stage of history." To the question of whether it was the Law produced by an amnesia or cause of a forgetfulness, answers this historian that at all, did not impose a tyranny of silence. And it points out its objectives, the objectives of that Amnesty Act: to remove all ETA prisoners from prison and, in return, to extend amnesty to authorities, officials and police. Arzalluz in 1977 pointed out that everyone's past had to be amnestyed in order to build a new country in which we can all live. "A great solemn act that forgave and forgotten all the crimes and barbarities committed by the two sides of the Civil War before her, in her and after her until today," in the words of Julio Jáuregui, representative of the Basque Nationalist Party. Of course, we should also remember the words and the intervention of the communist deputy Marcelino Camacho on 14 October 1977. He said: "How could we reconcile those who had been killing each other, if we did not erase that past once and for all? Amnesty," he said, "is a national and democratic policy, the only consequent that can close that past of civil wars and crusades. We want to open the way to peace and freedom, we want to close one stage, we want to open another", said Marcelino Camacho. And obviously also since 2007 we have had the Historical Memory Law, which we claim and support. A law which provides for measures for public administrations to facilitate, within the framework of their powers, to whom they request, the task of locating and identifying, a law which extends the amounts of compensation received, which declares the illegitimacy of the Francoist courts, which establishes measures to eliminate symbols of Francoism or which extends to the grandchildren of those who lost Spanish nationality in exile the possibility of their recovery. A law that serves to do justice, to compensate and to investigate and that recognizes the right to personal and family memory. A law that we must and want to put into value and demand, moreover, that it be further developed and have a greater scope, trajectory and impact than that which has had in recent years. This is therefore what we are defending. It can also be said that over the past decades there have been dozens of decrees that have been passed to restore the rights of the reprisals. From the soldiers who fought alongside the Republic to the so-called children of war, to those who lost their status as public officials. And in Euskadi too, certainly interesting actions have been carried out, which we value and value absolutely. It's probably not enough and we have to do a lot of things. But we claim both the Amnesty Law and the Historical Memory Law. Therefore, in conclusion and to end. I defend the struggle for the freedoms of anti-Franquists, not those of now, but above all those of then. I defend the Spanish transition with all its loopholes and errors, I defend the Amnesty Law, I defend Marcelino Camacho's speech and I defend the Historical Memory Law, which must really be applied and which has certainly not been overdeveloped in recent times. In short, I support the amendment we have recorded. We want this Parliament to remember its validity and to put into force and endorse the Historical Memory Act, which recognizes and expands rights and establishes measures for those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship, and urges the Basque Government to maintain and intensify actions aimed at recovering and honouring the memory of those who suffered the fascist uprising, the bloody Civil War and the Franco dictatorship, as well as knowledge of our recent history and the promotion of democratic memory. This is therefore the amendment that we would support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u95	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Unzalus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u96	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Lehendakari jauna, legebiltzarkideok, aratsalde on. More than half a year has passed since this initiative was introduced in the register of the House. I believe that the debate before us today has varied substantially with what was initially raised. It has gone from claiming the truth, justice and reparation that the victims of the disappearances forced by Francoism deserve, to urging the Spanish Government to accede to the arrest warrants of various persons accused of crimes committed during the Franco dictatorship, in order to put them in the hands of Argentine justice. Beyond the disorientation to which this change of approach can lead us, I would like in principle to say that our group shares, from a moral point of view, all the arguments that are given here about denouncing the crimes of Francoism. We continue to demand the right to the truth, justice and reparation of the victims of a war provoked by those who rose up against a legitimate government, of the victims who produced the dictatorship established by the executioners of that war, and of all the victims who have occurred as a result of terrorism at more recent times. In the amendment we made in its day and which we are going to maintain today, we urge the competent authorities to take the necessary steps to recognize and repair the victims of the Civil War and Francoism. We believe that in our legislation there is an absolutely effective tool for carrying out this work, such as Law 52/2007 of 27 December, which recognizes and expands rights and establishes measures for those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship. Many of these victims have been granted their rights as a result of the law I have mentioned. We have a framework through which justice can be done, recognized and rehabilitated, which was the approach of the original initiative. We are aware that the PP government is putting all possible obstacles to the development of this law. The financial asphyxiation to which it has been subjected is causing a de facto paralysis of its development and frustration of the victims with whom we feel solidarity, because these victims had to wait too long to be recognized. Socialists are committed to recovering the Historical Memory Law, to adapting it if necessary, we want to return the activity that took place between 2008 and 2011. Years in which collectives, such as guerrillas or brigandists, were expanded, to which rights were recognized as fighters for freedom and democratic values. The amounts of compensation to be received were improved, historical investigations and the opening of ditches were financed. Alongside this political path, today we are faced with the criminal route, which we support in principle, but which, if it has not been carried out, is because the Spanish courts have decided that it is the National Court, the Supreme Court and several courts of first instance that have examined the issue and have concluded that the extradition that is being raised today is not possible. It has been the courts that have decided that the Amnesty Act of 1977 should be applied, and it has been the courts that have suggested that the obligation of the signatory States to international agreements cannot be retroactively achieved before the ratification of these treaties. That is why the Council of Ministers on 13 March this year refused extradition on the basis of these legal reports which raised its inadmissibility. We are therefore faced with a decision based on legal bases rather than a political position, although we are also aware that this is very good for the People's Party in power. We Socialists do not give up trying the penal path, but in the face of the obstacles we face, we believe that the political paths must be strengthened, and I appeal again to return to the so-called Historical Memory Law its protagonist, even to improve it, so that it covers all the gaps that can be detected. We continue to defend the victims against the victims, we want to proclaim the moral superiority of the victims over the executioners. We will not vote in favour of the compromise amendment formed by the PNV and EHB groups, we will abstain. And we will maintain our amendment in its entirety, which recalls and claims the right of all victims to the truth, justice, reparation and guarantee of non-repetition, but of all victims, of the victims of the Civil War, of dictatorship, of terrorism and of illicit counter-terrorism. That's gonna be our position. And nothing more, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u97	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mr. Ramíz-Ecudero is your word. Mr. FRAMEUR-ESCURO, ISUSI: Good afternoon, President. With the introduction of this proposal, we seek only to obtain this fundamental object for the people who had surrendered Franco's regime: the recovery of truth, the right of being justice, and the right of having a worthy compensation, and the whole society considering the necessary changes to ensure that it is not repeated. Today we are discussing something very simple, which is to remind the Spanish Government that, apart from legal or political problems, it has not complied with an international resolution. And what we're going to discuss today, we can base it on two sources. The first is part of the 2015-2016 Basic Priorities Programme on Historical Memory, which was carried out by the Victims and Human Rights Directorate of the General Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence. Secondly, at the international level, the main reference to international law is United Nations General Assembly resolution 60/147 of December 2005, which states that the document "Basic principles and guidelines on the right of victims of violations" is adopted and expresses its international humanitarian right to seek remedies and reparations. In short, we are talking about four points on which I believe we all agree, namely the reparation of the truth, justice, compensation and also the right to guarantee non-repetition. In the Spanish State there are still 2,381 mass graves next to the cemeteries and in the corners of the roads that are not exhumed. And also, quantifying it on an average basis, there may be 150,000 people who have been victims of enforced disappearances, whose relatives expect recognition as such victims. Judicial problems and political problems apart, we must recover the truth, in order to guarantee to all those retaliated by Francoism that a true story will be told. We must also talk about justice, the justice involved in overcoming the state of impunity of the perpetrators. The Argentine case has brought these 17 people, and obviously, as long as there is impunity for the perpetrators, the victims and their families cannot be satisfied with the action of justice. We also need to talk about decent compensation in the moral, ethical and economic fields. Finally, there should also be sufficient legal, institutional and socio-political changes to ensure the guarantee of non-repetition. I believe that the agreement we have reached is a completely normal and signable agreement throughout the world. It says: "The Basque Parliament, taking into account international human rights law, urges the Government of Spain to accede to the orders of pre-trial detention and subsequent extradition to Argentina for the taking of an investigative declaration issued by Judge Servini de Cubria of the persons accused of crimes against humanity committed during the Franco dictatorship". We are not talking about trials, we are talking about simply complying with international law and that the Spanish Government allows these people to go to Buenos Aires for a simple statement. This proposal, which we are going to vote positive Euskal Herria Bildu and the Basque Nationalists, I think we should extend it. Mr Unzalu, I believe you are saying that you are not going to vote in favour of a purely formal issue. I think that when we talk about truth and justice, the matter, the substance of the matter is so serious that I think that the forms have to be left a little behind. You were talking about a negotiation problem, a date problem. I believe that when we talk about reparation for the truth and justice of the victims, we obviously have to leave all the formal issues and simply focus on the substance. Today I imagine Julian Besteiro or Indalecio Prieto turning in his grave and seeing with horror how 80 years later his socialist colleagues in Euskadi are inhibiting themselves and not voting in favour of a proposal that is logical and that could vote for it by anyone, and that I think you should vote for it too. I think you should think about it, because I see no reason why you should not vote positively on this proposal today. Besterik ez, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u99	Thank you, Madam President. I do not know, Mr Ramírez-Escudero, how you would describe at this time the attitude of the President of your party in relation to this debate. Would you be a traitor to those issues now? I do not know, it is a question that you have to ask yourself and that you have to answer it in relation to this issue. With Mr Arzuaga's usual political sarcasm, he brings back an initiative to this Parliament. Mr. Arzuaga seems to be worried about some things, but others are not. He advocates issues on which he does not believe, let alone practice. He calls for actions and responsibilities, including timetables for acting on others, and does not see his own, his responsibilities, his outstanding subjects, his ties to ETA and the consequences of his collection of disappearances, crimes and murders. This is a serious enough issue for Mr Arzuaga, the usual defender of intolerance and totalitarianism represented by ETA, to raise. Francoism and the Franco dictatorship have been condemned by all of us, by all the Democrats in this country, but Mr Arzuaga has not done the same with fascism and degeneration represented by his reference band. Ladies and gentlemen, here there is not only the simplification that the proposer proposes to us. There is a legal and legal debate here, which also affects the pillars of our transition, of our democratic coexistence. It is clear that in political and institutional action there are legal debates that need to be based on norms, laws, democratic agreements, treaties, agreements among nations. The special rapporteur of the United Nations, Pablo de Greiff, made a report that has been analysed, studied, also answered by the representation of the State in legal terms and of democratic representativeness, linked to legality, and that is being taken into account and developed in possible legal and legal areas. Now, on the basis of a number of parliamentary initiatives in the Congress of Deputies, the Government has provided information on its position on the report and on the steps being taken to implement recommendations that do not run counter to legal certainty and the principle of legality. When Mr. De Greiff presented his report, the Government took a stand and, inter alia, said that Spain appreciated the visit of the working group in September 2013, in response to an open and permanent invitation extended in 2001 to all United Nations special procedures, they were the result of a commitment to multilateralism and to the universal system of human rights protection. Spain, his Government had thanked the working group for its recommendations and had said that it had taken good note of them, as was usually the case with United Nations special procedures. Some recommendations are shared, others have begun to be implemented, and on others there are differences of opinion, as was the occasion to explain to the Chairman of the working group at Human Rights Council meeting 27 on 12 September 2014. In addition, the Chairman of the working group expressly thanked Spain for its cooperation and its position in dialogue on the matters covered by its mandate. Those are some of the issues that are on the table, indeed, with that willingness to assume, develop or legally disagree with some of the issues that were raised. In the intervention of the Government of Spain and the representative of the United Nations, the reply to the report said an important and basic thing for all of us, which underpins the fact that we are here and why we have what we have and have achieved: that the Spanish transition is also a special case, because it is a case of national reconciliation without criminal justice, according to the decision agreed by the vast majority of freely and democratically elected parliamentary political forces. The balance between peace and democracy, justice and reconciliation was found in Spain at the expense of renouncing criminal justice. That decision was also accompanied by measures of recognition and reparation for the rights of the victims, culminating in the adoption of the Act on Historical Memory, which you have already mentioned in 2007 which brings together measures of reparation and recognition, as well as of a symbolic nature. And it is not appropriate, however, to make it clear that the legitimacy of this whole process stems from social support, from political consensus in the transition. These elements are also present in the adoption of the Amnesty Law of 1977, which deserves the special attention of the rapporteur and which was especially grateful to the rapporteur for having examined this law more rigorously. And in that regard, some issues were analysed, some might differ, but those are the legal issues. Secondly, unlike what the rapporteur had said, it was not true that there was a high degree of consensus on the extinction of the criminal responsibility of opponents of the dictatorship, but that the extinction of the criminal responsibility of the defenders of the dictatorship should be debated. On the contrary, both in the parliamentary debates prior to the adoption of the law and in the statements of the opposition parties, there are many references to the conviction that only through this formula was reconciliation possible. Moreover, as early as 1960 the minutes of the sixth congress of the then illegal Communist Party of Spain collected the proposal of the general amnesty extended to both sides. Some reference issues even at the time of the illegality of the Spanish Communist Party, a reference issue that has to mark some reference approaches. And in this position, the Government of Spain said that "we wish to reject the pejorative character that the rapporteur gives to the interpretation that the judiciary has given in Spain to the principle of legality and to the Amnesty Act". Indeed, it is our approach in this debate as well. We have the pronouncements of the Spanish courts, of all of them. Every criminal norm must be applied, interpreted with exquisite observance of the principle of legality and its manifestations of previous lex, certain, strict and script. It is therefore wrong to classify as a formalistic interpretation the application by judges of these principles of legality and irretroactivity of the Criminal Law, pillars, on the other hand, of the rule of law and of the democratic State. Well, these are issues that were raised, that are raised as a political position, but as a legal debate as well, and that, of course, we share. Other parliamentary questions have also referred in an effective way to the report. In a parliamentary question, Mr Centella at the Congress of Deputies was said that "the report of the United Nations rapporteur on the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition by Mr De Greiff on the visit to Spain, part of the finding that the implementation of measures of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition in Spain have developed in a context involving peculiar complexities". That issue was already being discussed in connection with the report. It recognizes, however, that "the consolidation of democracy", that is acknowledged in the report, "is one of the outstanding achievements of the Spanish transition". He also points out that "the consolidation of robust and stable democracy is in itself an instrument to ensure non-repetition". There are benchmarks in that report as well. Some forget about them and only read what interests them or what does not interest them. In any case, Mr Arzuaga understands that he has done so. And in that context, he combined to recall, he said, the importance that in the construction of modern democratic Spain had the law to which we referred before and that key role that played in the transition of democracy. Those are the issues that lead us to vote against the compromise amendment. My group was going to support the amendments of the whole Socialist and Union, Progress and Democracy Party, but it is clear that the nationalist front is once again marking the roll of simplification and the roll of confrontation. We will, of course, vote against the compromise amendment, as we align ourselves with the pronouncements made by the Spanish justice system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u100	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing on the day of the answers, the representative of EH Collector, Mr. Azuga, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u101	Eskerrik asko berriro era. A finding. The Spanish legal apparatus for the cases we are dealing with today imposes oblivion by decree. It is not my will, it has never been and no one will have heard me, moreover, that is what I ask in any case. Mr. Maneiro, you were talking about the partial failure of the Republic, which has sounded to me perhaps as justification for what came next, and in a way has blown up my alarms. I am not going to enter into a war-civilistic interpretation, I am just saying that it is not just a question of the uprising, of the Civil War, but that the Francoist crimes lasted until 1977, that is, until yesterday. It is true that in this country there have been various acts of violence, various crimes of political motivation. And it is also true that Mr Maneiro, while defending an exceptional justice that exhausts punishments and raises the severity of such punishments to its last ratio, also comes to endorse an exceptional justice that forgets, a special legislation that self-amnesties Francoist officials, which gives them total impunity, such as the Amnesty Law that has come to defend. You, Mr Maneiro, advocate superlative justice for criminal offences under the Criminal Code and call for intractable justice for crimes against humanity and genocide. Two elements of silence to return that consideration that you have made me of hypocrisy and cynicism. I want to answer to him, that we brought the same text from the Gasteize City, and the grand assemblies of the Arabs, which we thought we might be able to agree with. So, it's true, there's been a change, the purpose of this enterprise has been updated, but because we also thought that we could find it, and that we could also get the support of your team. Here, I remind you, there was no mention of the Amnesti Law, because we understand that this is PSE's Topea, and we didn't want to strategize it somehow. There are initiations in Congress today. It was the same day in the press that 28 senators in the Senate, except the PP, formed a delegation, a committee, and the instructions which these correspondents of the United Nations might be fulfilled. We saw it possible, as I say, to unite in this, it was not possible this time. A quotation to that law of Historical Memory. It is true that there are certain measures in it to confess those persons who have suffered, but it is not possible for these victims to receive the whole of justice, and to be examined by their victims, persecuted, judged, and punished. Argentina offers us a useful instrument for this, and I hope we can continue it. As for the PP, it makes the legal trench and the lack of political will its flag. Because it seems that the PP, rather than to that legal order and to that political position, has a special attachment to those perpetrators precisely because it belongs to their political or sociological space. That is why, in addition to giving them legal cover, they are also given political shelter. This is going to cause them a problem before the international community, as they are dragging a slab that will certainly tear them to the bottom. You, Mr. Barrio, contradict international bodies. He was right here, a meeting was held at the request of the Commission on Human Rights with Ariel Dulitzky, of the Working Group on Enforced Disappearances, and you, Mr. Barrio, dared to dispatch this expert saying that this was a rule of law, that this was a democracy and that you will surely have a lot of work to do in other countries. I'm going to give you a data to see what the real ranking of the Spanish state is in front of those other states. After Cambodia, Spain is the second state in the number of enforced disappearances. It is a state that has perpetrated very serious crimes against humanity, crimes of genocide, to which you give legal and political cover.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u102	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u103	Look, Mr. Arzuaga, besides cynical and hypocritical, again manipulative. He has already done so in the debate on the Cabacas issue, which distorted some things that I had said and that were literal and that I did not defend. And he's done it again today here again. Either he's deaf or he's an obvious manipulator. When I spoke of partial failure, I did not refer to the partial failure of the Second Republic, but to the partial failure of the military uprising that I have described as a fascist. This is what I said, I wish I had absolutely failed that uprising, but by being or reaping a partial failure, that led to the Civil War. That's what I said, so don't manipulate my words. It is perfectly clear what I have said and it is perfectly clear that I condemn Francoism, I condemn the crimes committed during the dictatorship and that I am a defender of democracy and freedom. It's obvious. Here the one who is outside of democracy and the one who does not believe in democracy and the one who does not believe in human rights is you, you who come here to defend victims of decades ago, when before the victims of two days ago provoked here by your terrorist gang, before these you remain silent. It's not that you keep quiet, it's that you defend the terrorist gang. To the terrorist gang you do not demand your dissolution, to the terrorist gang you do not condemn you. That's why you don't have any kind of credibility, and that's why you're a cynic and a hypocrite, and that's the conclusion. The rest of us are democrats, we condemn violence, we condemn dictatorships, but what you do here is insult the rest of the Basque parliamentarians. And this is already beginning to be absolutely unbearable, because you insult intelligence. You talking about enforced disappearances, what about enforced disappearances caused by ETA? You talking about executions, what about the executions carried out by ETA? You talking about torture, what about torture caused by ETA? Before that you shut up, you keep quiet. Not only that, but it defends them, because you give political shelter to a terrorist gang called ETA, which has lasted until yesterday and which, by the way, has not yet dissolved. That's why I have to tell him again that he's a cynic and a hypocrite and also a manipulator, because he's trying to confuse what I've expressed in this rostrum. I do, I defend the Amnesty Law. This debate was brought by the BNG to the Congress of Deputies and supported by 8 parliamentarians, 320 voted against and 8 abstentions. Therefore, I am part of that majority that defends the Amnesty Law as an instrument to close a certain cycle and advance national reconciliation, a law that served to consolidate democracy and make national reconciliation possible, as I say. Yes, I believe in the Amnesty Law, one of whose objectives, by the way, I told you before, was to get all ETA prisoners out of jail, that was one of the objectives of the Amnesty Law. And I am part of that vast majority of Spaniards who continue to defend the Amnesty Law, to ensure a future of union among all Spaniards and to make national reconciliation possible. Mr. Ramírez-Escudero, what do you think of Mr. Arzalluz's statements when he said that everyone's past had to be amnestyed in order to build a new country in which we can all live? What do you think of the statements of Julio Jáuregui, representative at the time of the Basque Nationalist Party, when he demanded a great solemn act that would forgive and forget all the crimes and barbarities committed by the two sides of the Civil War before her, in her and after her until today? What do you think of the position of the Basque Nationalist Party a few years ago, when this issue was discussed in the Congress of Deputies and the Basque Nationalist Party said it was an irrelevant debate? What do you think of all these statements? We obviously share Marcelino Camacho's speech which I have read here before, part of his speech I have read here. And indeed I feel reflected, as a vast majority of Spanish citizens, in that speech without any problem. Therefore, I repeat the Spanish transition, the Amnesty Law, and I also repeat the Historical Memory Law, which must surely be improved, which must surely be developed, which must surely lead to greater progress and achieve challenges that have not yet been achieved, but I defend all of this. I do not defend in any case any kind of impunity, I defend justice, but I defend that political pact that existed between Spaniards to make possible coexistence among all of them. This is what we stand for and is perfectly reflected in our whole amendment. Obviously, we will not support your compromise amendment either.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u104	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists, Mr. Unzalus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u105	Let's see, Mr Ramírez-Escudero, you have understood absolutely nothing of what I have said, you have not listened to me, you were on another wave or you have not understood simply. I have made arguments based on political and legal positions. I have not spoken at all about the times or changes in the basis of this, that has been a contextualization. My arguments have been on a legal and political basis. But I think it's a bad taste for you to bring us back here to pick up Julián Besteiro and Indalecio Prieto, one dead in Cordoba prison and the other in exile in Mexico. I find it a displeasure, because I do not believe that in this House any parliamentary group, no political party can present a résumé, a dossier for the defence of democracy during the Civil War, throughout the Civil War from 36 to 39, not from 36 to 37, throughout the dictatorship until 77, I believe that no political group in this House can expose a dossier like this. A file that has then been extended until we have defeated terrorism. Always in defense of democracy and freedoms. Very bad taste, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero! I'm going to repeat the arguments. With regard to this specific request for extradition, what we have said is that international jurisdiction cannot be appealed because Spanish jurisdiction has already been pronounced repeatedly. That international jurisdiction acts when a state does not assume its sovereignty to render judgment and act on different issues, and that is what we have said. And we have seen that what you say is already settled, because there are sentences, there are statements by the courts, and I have also said that on those sentences and those statements it is on what the Spanish Government has based itself on not accessing extradition. It's a legal problem. And I have opened up the political avenues for them to deepen the recognition of these victims. I have opened and told you that we must recover the Historical Memory Act, because it is a capable instrument, and that committee of the Senate that you, Mr Arzuaga, were appealing, I hope you will also come to conclusions that will allow us to move forward in that Historical Memory Act of 2007. Because we think it's a path, a political path. Because in these cases, the criminal route is often not exclusive and, above all, it is not sufficient. When the criminal way, when the legal way has its obstacles, and that is what is being seen, let us act in politics, let us agree in politics. That committee that you have appointed will agree and we will move forward and move forward. But we will continue if we respect ourselves, Mr Ramírez-Escudero, not if we make insubstantialities like the one you have done here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u106	Eskerrik asko, yellow Unzalu. Euzko Abertzaleak taldearen ordezkaria, Ramírez-Escudero jauna, zurea da hitza. Mr. Unzalu, perhaps the one who did not understand me correctly was you, because I have never suspected the historical democracy of the Socialist Party. What I have told you is that with this very democratic past, I was surprised that they were not able, from a non-legal point of view, but from a human rights point of view, to sign today's proposal. I think they could have signed it, and I meant that. You have misunderstood me, because at no time have I wanted to hurt your historical-democratic susceptibility, because obviously we all know that it is there. I was surprised that, belonging to a party that had many victims and that was on the losing side, they would not have had a little left hand today to have agreed three parties instead of two. I meant this only and exclusively. It has been said in the first part that there was revenge, that there were grudges, that there was confrontation. I believe that no one here brings anything or anything else, no one wants to take revenge on anyone, no one wants to make a confrontation and no one wants to make a historical revenge either, because it has been almost 79 years in the month and a half and it has been a long time. But talking about the Amnesty Act, talking about the Historical Memory Act, nor from the point of view of human rights, means that a government cannot be allowed or urged if an Argentine judge sees alleged crimes and sees alleged culprits, under international law, to try to extradite these people to take a statement. They are fully compatible cases, that is, crimes against humanity and genocide never prescribe outside of any national, state amnesty law. So, we have signed at the bottom of the letter, we have not here taken out other topics that have taken out other people. We said that it seemed to us that the Government of Spain should be urged to try to facilitate the extradition of such persons by complying with international law with the Argentine case. We were just talking about that. And that may even be compatible with the fact that there has been a Historical Memory Law and also an Amnesty Law. And no confrontations and no grudges and revenges. Besterik ez, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ramírez-Escudero. Finally, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u108	Thank you, President. Soon. Look, Mr. Arzuaga, you accuse me of liking the legal trench. Yeah, I like the legal trench. What I don't like is the hide-and-seek zule in which you usually find yourself permanently and in cases like this one comes out again. And now, besides, you're an international misjurisconsult. It threatens us, supposedly the Government of Spain, with international consequences. Why? By basing their agreements on the law, on the opinions and judgments of the courts? I don't know. It seems to me that international misjurisconsultation is you. And you have very little legitimacy to demand responsibility for disappearances and crimes. You have no legitimacy. As long as you don't condemn them all, the most recent historical memory, as long as you don't condemn them all, you can't bring us these demanding debates here. I'm sorry, you can't bring us. You stay in that hideous zule, so we won't go too far. Mr Ramírez-Escudero did not answer my question about Arzalluz's current qualification for the adoption of the Amnesty Act at the time. He has not told me whether he would now be a traitor in relation to the approach you make, the new approach in relation to those issues. I don't know, I think he'd say no, but he hasn't explained it to me. And I would, because I believe that there is a very important contradiction between those issues. You have said how to analyse your compromise amendment. Its compromise amendment must be analysed from a legal point of view, not from a human rights point of view. You ask for extraditions and arrests, and those are legal issues that have to be definitively approved in law-based decisions, and that is what the Spanish courts and the Government of Spain are doing. I referred earlier to the good number of parliamentary debates or parliamentary questions in relation to Mr De Greiff's report, and there have also been many questions and there have been many answers. It has been recalled in those reports that "Spain is a democratic country, with a constitutional regime of freedoms, based on respect for human rights", and it was also recalled that "the laws in force guarantee protection", in matters referred to in the report, "of any victim of any crime, as well as the memory thereof, also by acts produced in past periods characterized by freedoms". Those issues were still guaranteed, and progress could be made in that recognition without any doubt. On the other hand, it may be noted that in the extract from the Government's observations on the report of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on his idea of Spain "the Government reaffirms the importance of the principles of legality and non-retroactivity of the Criminal Law, which are pillars of the rule of law. That statement is based on the considerations contained in Mr De Greiff's report on a supposed restrictive or formalistic interpretation of such principles by the Spanish courts. That is not the case. The Spanish court and Government defend these rulings by the Spanish courts, as it could not otherwise be, because they are based on law. "Compliance with the principle of legality is basic in every rule of law and is not incompatible with the provisions of the United Nations Convention on the Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance, which entered into force in Spain on 23 December 2010. And as a manifestation of Spain's commitment to multilateralism and the international protection and promotion of human rights, by ratifying the Convention Spain accepted the competence of the Committee on Enforced Disappearances, a body set up by the Convention to hear individual communications concerning possible violations of the Convention. In accordance with article 35, the competence of the Committee shall extend only to enforced disappearances which have commenced after the date of entry into force of this Convention." They are legal formalisms, they are such issues, but they have their weight, and they must be recognized and that democratic governments of course use them to underpin their decisions and positions. With regard to the protection and reparation of victims and their families, Spain's response to the rapporteur's report, Mr De Greiff, explains that "recognition and reparation measures have begun since the beginning of democracy, culminating in the adoption of the Act on Historical Memory of 2007. This law brings together a series of measures of reparation and recognition, as well as others of a symbolic nature." It is also indicated that "information has been provided to the rapporteur on judicial decisions that agree that criminal proceedings are not the way to satisfy the applicants' claims, but offer the contentious-administrative way as the correct way, according to the Spanish procedural conception and provided for in Law 52/2007. "Finally, note is taken of the rapporteur's comments on the categories of victims he considers to be excluded from the reparation measures, in order to study their conformity with existing legislation. However, it is recalled that the programme for the recognition of pensions of persons who for their sexual orientation have been sentenced to imprisonment in accordance with the legislation in force during the franchise and it is noted that these persons also have at their disposal the possibility to request the declaration of reparation provided for in article 4 of Law 52/2007". I mean, you keep moving and you keep taking... Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u109	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. When we're done arguing, we'll vote for the Middle Amendment signed by EH and Eunctians. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; in favour of 48; the contrary, 11. white, 0; abstations, 14.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u110	The central correction has been approved. The eighth point in the subject list: "Euscal Socialists have made the law-groups to fight against the violence of the road, and the measures necessary to protect the victims of this violence. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Gallaustegui has the word to show up and take off.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u111	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'm going to go fast, basically because I think everyone's tired now, and I'm going to what I'm going to do. In this case, we are bringing an initiative in which we want to voice once again what citizens who are affected by specific problems to which we have not just given a satisfactory solution. Go ahead, because what we do is bring here what has specifically asked us Stop Accidents and which we Socialists, and I understand that you too, we fully share. Today we are not giving sufficient solutions to road accidents. We are on the eve of new massive displacements along our roads, which will start with calls for prudence, will continue to remember the sanctions, will continue to warn of the consequences of the accidents and will culminate in a count with which any traffic direction at this time can always compare to better, depending on the reference you seek. But it's not just about this and statistics. It's not worth having black spots detected, it's not worth counting alcohol controls, it's not worth counting dead and injured people that I'm sure they're less than a few years ago. But each one of them, ladies and gentlemen, leaves on the road his plans for life, for the future, and a stele of destruction and pain in the people around him who never retrace themselves. And it doesn't work, because today's statistics aren't going to stop them being replaced by other tomorrows and there's no remedy left that's worth it. Of course, we all welcome the decline in accidents in recent times. Any strategy designed by any government in this area has been important. And it is certainly very important and decisive the hard hand against the violations, the changes in the traffic codes, and also the efforts of our police officers to monitor in transit, to prevent drivers more than reckless – I will use no other word, for that of using a correct language in the parliamentary seat – from continuing to drive a vehicle, to fine rigorously and exemplaryly, to improve the health care of the injured, to reduce the response times. That's all very important. And all this is discussed in the security plan that the Government presented to us earlier this year. But the data can be turned against us at any time. Even with these measures, a multiple disaster, one in a public transport, any fatality changes the statistics. It will also certainly do so by lowering the price of gasoline, or there may be economic signs for some families who decide to encourage themselves to travel on the road, those spirits that had significantly reduced in the harshest times of the crises. The strategy of a government cannot therefore be limited to short-term issues that give rise to benevolent statistics. And some of that is in our government's plan. What we need to do, if we want a medium-term strategy, is to focus on what avoids not the accidents of now and their aftermath, but the next ones. And here, as we repeat so many times, we have in our hands means and skills to try to stop accidents, as a well-known television channel displays, and to stop road accidents. It's not an announcement. It's the reality we have in our hands, ladies and gentlemen. And we can do this by starting with awareness-raising, following training and establishing the protocolization of actions. The accident, from the very definition of fact caused on public roads and where a vehicle is involved, at least in motion, is something that we assimilate as something normal, as something fortuitous, as something that seems inevitable to us. And in reality there are many times that, with the detachment of the unconscious, it affects us personally only if it affects us directly or affects a family member. And it only affects us socially if there is a certain alarm, which comes out on the news or opens the cover of a newspaper. The traffic accident like this, except in personal terms, is usually something that causes a certain disease, the associations say. Even if we are observers from the road, when we look at the cows at the train the show itself and stop paying proper attention to driving, if we are driving, and producing unnecessary restraints or even new accidents. The associations say that loud and clear every day. And besides the associations, we show it every day with our own experience. And this is the first thing that needs to be changed: the show must be replaced by solidarity. It requires a change of attitude from those we drive, it requires awareness; it requires awareness among road users, but also among professionals who work directly to resolve accidents. And that is the nuclear point of our proposal, ladies and gentlemen: awareness-raising. That it must reach the younger ones; those who have not yet taken any form of driver's license, even those who will never take it out and will never be able to check, as some illustrious politician says, that they have it; those who do not go or specify it or even never. Because those who have experienced these accidents or those of their families have felt this lack of awareness, and above all they believe that they can contribute a great deal to the training of young people, both to be good drivers and to be good collaborators in providing help. That is, ladies and gentlemen, ultimately more citizens. To this end, and here the competence of the Basque Government, educational institutions must be the embryo that germinates years later. That's what I'm thinking about today and tomorrow. But we must also update the training of road care professionals. The investigation of accidents in Euskadi is carried out by the Ertzaintza and the local police when it comes to urban areas. The attention of the Ertzaintza of traffic is good and the training as well; as everything, improveable. And although it is always possible, as I say, to improve, according to those affected by traffic accidents, on many occasions the ertzainas that carry out these attestations of traffic accidents with wounded, seriously injured in long-distance areas and even in urban areas, where the local police have no night shift, have few troops or there is no local police, are public security agents. And when this happens, there are deficiencies in care, there are deficiencies in training, there are deficiencies in information and treatment of the victims of such accidents. And that has to be solved. As far as local police are concerned, the capitals have units of specialists in investigation and care of traffic accidents, but in the rest of the localities the agents are generalists, without specialization in investigation of accidents, neither in dealing with the victims nor with their relatives. And when we are talking about this situation, we are talking about the wider geographical area of our Community, where such training and awareness is essential, because these agents every day engage an endless number of different actions without the possibility of having access to specialisation because of the workload and the wide range of functions. And to this it must be added that they often carry out the instruction of attestations by interurban routes, which by law should be the function of Ertzaintza. It is time, in short, to adapt protocols and functions to the current regulations and needs, approving the actions, as we also demand in our proposal and in the compromise amendment that we have signed with the Nationalist group. And as I was telling you, protocolization. All accidents must be treated equally, with total professionalism and means. That there are no differences, that there is no difference depending on the place of the accident and the police acting. Everything, absolutely everything has to be protocolized: from attention to the incident, to the people and the relatives, to the management of the attestation itself, to the actions during the follow-up of the victims, contacts with the family, the management of the belongings of the victims, the management of the vehicles, etc. Because there are things that, although they may seem minor when an accident occurs, such as knowing where the sinister vehicle ends or the belongings that remain inside, what cannot continue to happen is that the family members, in addition to suffering the pain from the accident, have to be lying down worrying about workshops or other circumstances of a minor nature. The protocolization, ladies and gentlemen, above all allows each and every intervener to always know what the line of action is. And that will always reduce response times and will optimize attention. And finally, there is another aspect that can be improved and that is also in our hands if we want to give proper attention to the victims: judges and prosecutors need training in this matter. Such awareness among relatives of those who have suffered serious accidents must reach those who are going to have to decide on the criminal or civil consequences or those of a disaster, in order to be sensitive to all the aspects surrounding these facts and to understand and make understand the scope of the sentences they issue, both in the area of judicial proceedings and at all their stages. In addition, these final resolutions are absolutely intelligible to those affected, who are often not. There are people who do not understand at all what has been sentenced or in a misdemeanour trial, in an abbreviated procedure in which there have been deaths, injuries and serious injuries. This can't be. In short, we bring a proposal that wants to go beyond mere accounting with which to measure the success or failure of policies relating to road accident. We want, as the associations say, to create a culture of road safety, sustainable and safe mobility. We bring proposals from people who have already suffered accidents, who know what avoidable suffering is and want no more tragedies to happen. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we all agree in this House, and I am therefore sure that each and every group will support the compromise amendment that we have signed with the Basque Nationalist Group. I am sure and therefore I thank you in advance for doing so. Good afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the Eucus patriots represent the group, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good evening to all. It appears that we are faced with a social problem: Road safety. In fact, according to the World Medical Organization, 1,2 million people die every year from traffic crash, it's 8th between mortals. In the number of accidents in Basque streets and roads, there has been a positive and constant evolution in the past ten years. Road safety must therefore be a priority area for action. And the result of this concern and the commitment of this Government to people, and following a process of reflection and analysis throughout 2014, the new Strategic Plan for Road Safety and Safe and Sustainable Mobility 2015-2020 has been developed. A very ambitious project, with the main objective of further reducing the disaster on Basque roads, consolidating the progressive cultural change that is taking place in terms of safe and sustainable mobility in Basque society in recent years. It should be noted that the number of people killed in Euskadi has fallen significantly, with a reduction of about 70% in the last decade compared to the 2003 figures, which makes Euskadi position itself with the worst ratios of the lowest in Europe, only surpassed by Sweden, the United Kingdom and Denmark. And even the data from last 2014 have been extraordinary, with a decrease of 48 % compared to 2013, constituting the best data at the Spanish state level, with 29 dead, 27 less than in 2013, and 371 seriously injured, 59 less than in the previous year. However, as Mrs Gallastegui said and we share it, we must continue to work in this direction, because we cannot allow the loss of one life for this reason. The Strategic Plan for Road Safety and Safe and Sustainable Mobility 2015-2020 we do believe it brings added value in this issue and falls within the framework of both international and state road safety policies, as well as those derived from the cross-cutting plans and programmes of the Basque Government. The aim is to place the Basque Country as a benchmark for safe and sustainable mobility, based on effective road safety and traffic management strategies where citizens have responsible behaviour and public institutions, in collaboration with private actors, work in a coordinated and efficient way to reduce the number and severity of traffic accidents. The five general objectives set out in the Plan for the next five years are: to protect vulnerable groups, which we will then discuss; to improve traffic management on the main roads; to improve road safety on secondary roads; to correct inappropriate behaviours – distractions, speed, alcohol and drugs – and to promote safe and sustainable mobility in urban environments. As Mrs Gallastegui said, we have reached a compromise with the Socialist Group, to which we are grateful, especially Mrs Gallastegui, for the willingness to agree, and I sincerely believe that the result of the compromise is a substantial improvement in the original proposal. In which the first paragraph is as originally proposed by the Socialist Group, and as Mrs Gallastegui said, what is trying to do is to raise awareness and train those responsible for administering justice in these cases. The second paragraph calls for the strengthening of the training work of the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies and the coordination work with local police, in order to improve, approve and protocolize pre-traffic accidents on the part of both Ertzaintza and the different local police in Euskadi. In this regard, local police are trained at the Basque Academy of Police and Emergencies in the field of road safety, and in fact courses have been launched since last year that direct collaboration between the Directorate of Traffic and local police in proposing preventive measures in favour of road safety. More than 70 officers have already passed through these courses and the courses continue to be conducted. Ertzaintza has also formed a working group that, in collaboration with associations, experts and other government departments, is working to improve protocols for the care of victims of traffic accidents, which is already being done. And from the Directorate for Security Coordination there is continued contact with the various local police, sharing information, actions and proposals in all areas and also in this case in road safety. And in this line the second paragraph concerns: to improve, homologate and protocolize all these actions. Finally, in the third paragraph, Parliament urged the Government to continue to work and promote prevention, awareness-raising and awareness-raising activities in the field of road safety throughout the various stages of life in cooperation with social organizations related to road safety, especially educational organizations. We must not just talk about competences in the field of education, which are very important, and they also include an axis of the plan, one of the axes being road education and training. But not only should we talk about education, because we would be short, because other departments can also have areas and have areas of action in favour of road safety. And we cannot forget that road safety awareness is not just about educational institutions, about minors, we have to raise awareness at all ages, starting at the base but ending with older people. Hence, the vulnerable groups referred to in the plan are minors, cyclists, drivers, pedestrians and the elderly, and with each of them it is necessary to carry out awareness-raising and awareness-raising activities. The Traffic Authority has also made a commitment in the Euskadi Road Safety Commission to promote relations with social organizations related to road safety, as they are called in the creation decree. In this group we meet associations of victims, foundations, the DYA, in addition to the local police. In conclusion, it must be confessed that the Eucharist data is positive, but that it is necessary to continue its work to diminish accidents and deaths. And that's the meaning of the medium agreed on. We ask the rest of the parliamentary groups to protect that. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u114	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing on the tour of the teams that have no corrections, Misa mustn't speak, representative of the Basque Popula, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, everyone. The truth is that it is a pity that this initiative went in the afternoon, after eating, because it is a very interesting initiative. Regardless of the personal appreciation I have for you, Mrs Gallastegui, I certainly do not have any packaging in it, when the initiative of another group seems interesting and appropriate to me, not only do I not make any amendments, because I thought it would be such a vote, but I do think it is appropriate and appropriate to say so. Because I agree with you, with what you have said here, with what is said in the initiative, that it is true that in all these years, not only in Euskadi, but also in the rest of Spain, much progress has been made in the data of road accident, the data of traffic accidents have been greatly reduced. But it is also true that any traffic accident, even if only one, as long as it leads to the loss of human lives or injuries for many people and many sufferings, is something that must be tried to end it. It is true that the risk factors for road safety are internationally known and the issues on which we have to work, too, are something we all know. And although it is true, as I say, that thanks to the fact that these circumstances are becoming known they are being reduced, if we talked about statistics this morning, on these issues more than on any other we cannot stay in the statistics. We cannot be satisfied by saying that road safety policies are working simply because accidents are decreasing, even if this means, above all not just economic costs, but above all costs in human lives, absolutely positive news. At the national level, the Directorate-General for Traffic is responsible for these policies and for carrying out structural, cross-cutting or priority activities. As you have said, amendments to the Code have been made, the Road Safety Act was amended last year, with the two objectives of reducing disaster and also improving the safety of road users, and sanctions have been increased. Because it is true that the increase in sanctions in many cases serves for those who do not have enough – I also want to be correct politically speaking because we are in this House – enough decency so that when you put a steering wheel to have a civic behavior, at least the fear in the sanction causes, if not motu proprio, even if it is forced, to take into account the conditions under which it is put. But that is not enough either, because such sanctions are often not enough. Preventive measures are needed and training measures are needed. And as I say, at the national level this is being done through the victim unit of traffic accidents. And just yesterday, we talked about it this morning, it was approved in the Senate that, to complete this awareness, public television broadcasts on road safety. But here in Euskadi, as has been said, we have our own road safety plan and we have our means and our powers. And what it is about is, beyond always assuming our own competences, that we exercise them, that we do it right and that we try, in addition to reducing sinestrality, to carry out training and awareness-raising activities, which belong to the Basque Government, in order to go to that vision zero, that although it may seem like a chimera, I believe that all public officials should try or at least not put it in our heads as a chimera, but as a goal to be achieved. That is why I told you that I had not tabled any amendments, because it seems absolutely appropriate to me everything that was proposed, and what is included in the compromise amendment as well, and from now on I am announcing that we are going to vote in favour of it. I'm fine with protocol. Obviously, it is necessary to act in the same way whatever the police and whatever the municipality of Euskadi in which the accident occurs. In addition to the agents themselves who have to carry out the attestations, so that the health authorities themselves who intervene know what to do at all times so that the family or the person suffering from the accident is not further concerned than the suffering that can cause the accident. I like the formations of prosecutors and judges, because it is true, and you and I who engage in trials know that many times the sentences, and when you talk to many people about the subject of barems, etc., in the end it is true that it is complicated and all that is to facilitate all this is appropriate. We also think that training for young people and awareness-raising campaigns are appropriate. That is why I am simply not going to intervene in the second round, to announce from here that we are going to vote in favour of this compromise amendment, because, as I say, the success of road safety policies goes far beyond statistics, we cannot bear that there have been 20, 30% fewer accidents. What we have to do, first, is try to get from one year to another and in the not too distant future zero accidents. And above all to prevent, sensitize and educate the drivers present, and especially the future drivers, of how important it is also on the road to act responsibly. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u116	Thank you, Miss Llanos. The representative of EH Collectors, Mrs. Betitalangarian, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u117	Thank you, and good evening to all. The proposition proposed by the Socialists has not been directed by any of us, and we intend to protect both of us by the very nature of the proposition itself. And that's because we agree with the need to protect the victims of accidents, because the formation is never superfluous and necessary, and because obviously there's still a lot of work to be instinctively executed. There are steps, too, which is evident, but we do not agree with something which is said to have been proposed to him, and I would rather go away than say what we are and what we are doing, and think he will make more money for the discussion. It is said that the chief reason for the diminution of accidents was the measures of punishment. We think it is not so simple, and so far as we are listening to what the victims say, as we are all here concerned with what they say, there is nothing more to observe than that there is need for many other measures to be observed, which are connected with any other mode of motion, and why not to say so, even with the organization of our peoples. Obviously the main goal is to prevent accidents. So we may say, that if we were to know the rules and obey the rules strictly, even in a hundred per cent, in all cases, we can't say that it's going to happen automatically zero accidents. I think that, in my humble opinion, would be too simple to say that. I don't say that anyone said that, but that would be too simple to say. It takes a lot of extra measures. Sensibility is true of rules and limits, but not only of them. The prevention must also be worked in many ways, and from many districts, and while the steps are made, it is obvious that we cannot even forget the necessity of taking additional measures. But let's focus on what we have to do in order to avoid new victims. We think it's very important, very important, what it should be, and what we should be dealing with in other parts. In victims, we can take care of their demands or start from the point of view. Our towns and cities are prepared to furnish us with all the conveniences of coaching. And we think it's time to go back to it, to change the culture that's been created for years, this culture that's still overrun us, that's done, whether you want it or not, direct and indirect. The result of what has been done remains of discussion, when a people in the centre decides that the pedestrians should prefer, when the drive is restricted to the drive, or when they have to be removed from the parking lot for the red drive, although they know that it is also an opportunity to resist accidents, and it is important that, if they don't leave the private corner of a carriage, they control the other means of motion. He forgets that I'm going in, too, why not, that we're not all chauffeurs in many of our fellow-citizens, but we're on foot. Or the maximum distance to protect the passers-by in the centre is a measure of less than thirty miles an hour, for instance, but which is of very small importance in the eyes of prevention, for it is still a large number of accidents, due to the capture of the passers-by, especially among elderly. There's always a precaution for speeding traffic in years, and we're going to say it, too, to the best press. And so, for instance, we have put rounds in the place of traffic, so that the traffic will go faster or faster or better, without considering how often it hardens and prolongs the way of the passers-by. It is evident, then, that a new culture ought to be encouraged, and that it is necessary to take measures for it. We could mention many others. The importance of the right food for the roads, for instance, the necessary roads, and no more, is as important as investing them. And as we mention sensibilization and formation, it ought to expand more than it has, in the field of education, for the road is to begin with the young. It's true, not only with the young, but also with the young, because they'll be adults for later. And with these and the others, of course, we must go to another example: and he who overcomes the public above his private private person, and will overcome him who defiles him not above that which defiles him. And he who will seek also to diminish the need of motion in it, not only to be more secure in zeal, but less to move; and to respect a hierarchy: walking, a bicycle and a public transport of quality. So we protect the proposition, obviously, because it is a step on the way to do it, but at the same time we thought that it was because the limitation in this discussion of today was the importance and size of what is really to be done, and we thought it could be remarked. But obviously we agree with all the other measures. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Gallastegui, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u119	President, if I may from the seat, with your permission. I agree with you, Mrs Beitialarrangoitia, I agree with you that, in fact, there is much more to be promoted than any other type of transport, public transport, etc., sustainable mobility, better land management. And that would help a lot, speaking of public transport, access to an interterritorial public transport, equal and equal, that is, that any Basque citizen, living where he lives, wherever he goes within the territory of Euskadi, does not cost one 25 euros a month and another 325, because that, what happens and what happens, is that in the end people take their own car because it is much cheaper and much more comfortable. And that would also help this, that in the end we have three territories, that each one decides who the public transport rates are improved, and in that sense there would also be a possibility of improvement. And as far as I was concerned, let's see, the road safety plan is good, it's improveable, it's insufficient, it's not enough. But in any case, Mr Zorrilla, the problem that many of these road safety plans have is that they set a percentage that they want to achieve as much as possible in reducing accidents. I would never put that on. Because any accident, any accident, is exactly the finding and evidence of a failure of any road safety policy. Do not cut the wings to the pigeon, because in the end it is much better not to put percentages and reach more and more. Because, as I say and repeat, any accident is preventable and any interdisciplinary action in the area of security and mobility for all citizens, not only from the educational point of view, but also from the point of view of spatial planning, as Mrs Beitialarrangoiti said, is important. And the target is zero accidents. Is it hard? Yeah. But did someone say it wasn't? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Eubertarians, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u121	Baimenarekin nire esterlekutik. Bakarrik isateko, I believe that a strategic plan, regardless of what Mrs Gallastegui said, has to be set some objectives, and some objectives not randomly, in this case the Basque plan set some objectives that coincide... In fact the plan, which is normally four years, is five, because it coincides with the European security objective. Of course I share with you that any accident can distort any objective and any statistics, but in a plan you have to be ambitious and you have to set goals to try to achieve them. Besterik ez, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u122	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Mr. Maneiro, no. Mrs. Llanos, no. Madam de Beital, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u123	With your permission. To make a small Matiz. It is a very passionant discussion, and especially the model of transport and motion, and a small macot, I am sure we agree with Mme. Gallastegui and myself. I don't think it's so important for me to live anywhere and pay it the same, because maybe if I make your double, it's a laptop for me and not for you. For me, it's much better than that to have the same chance of everyone using the transportation. And maybe if I charge your double, I have to pay a little more for you to pay me less. So it's not the same thing to drink transport everywhere, it's the same thing that everyone can pay for the transportation. So I think that's the main thing. And I agree that to this we must overcome the country's rowings, that we must work differently, and so on, but I think that's important. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. End of discussion, we'll vote for the Middle Amendment signed by Eukal Socialists and Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters are 73; the opponents are 0; white is 0; 0; Absencesion, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-05-28.u125	It was unanimously accepted. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and forty-four.
