ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. And we'll start with a minute's silence about the memory of those who died in the last plane accident. [[Pause]] Before we start with the theme list, I mean the second point is left for another one. I also inform you that the Member of the New House of Earth, who will soon be his mother, has entrusted his vote with Mr. Urruno Goldsti. And the congressman Ana Otadui has also delegated his vote. First point in theme list: "The dispensation of the Office of Goods and Preservations, which is made on the composition of the Law made on the Orders of the Great of Eucharistic Government on November 11th, 1/1997 Laws to change the Decreeation of the Law. Discipline and final resolution. Some member of the board wants to explain the judgment... ? No private vote on judgment has been submitted and no correction has been saved. So, according to the article 141.2 of the Rule, we vote directly for the total judgment. [[Berber]] There's a problem with the New Jone vote card. Your vote will be counted and they will come and fix it. We'll vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 63; votes given, 64; the opponents are 64; the opponents are 0; white are 0; 0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u1	It was unanimously accepted. And Jone's vote, too. It is therefore approved to change the decree of the Decree of 1/1997 Law of November, which admits of a text of the Constitution of the Great Government. We'll go next to the vote. UPyD, Mr. Maniro... He mustn't speak. PP, Antón Damrena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u2	Thank you very much, Madam President. Just to thank the rest of the groups for the agreement...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u3	Please lower those billboards. Please lower those billboards. Please lower the signs or go outside. Please. ! There's no such thing as a disturbance. [[Moment. The president sends out the board members of the law show the signs.]] Lord Damboena, please, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u4	Thank you very much, Madam President. It seems that the usual ones do theirs again and do not lose the old habits of those who have evidently been doing the same all their lives and they do not seem to think that they will stop doing it. In any case, I am going to confine myself to the point that we were bringing, which is in the interests of greater transparency of the Basque Government, in order that the direct subsidies approved by the Basque Government in the Governing Council not subject to regulatory orders or decrees are also published in the official newsletter as well as being referred to the Basque Parliament for its knowledge. As we said at the time, Mr Erkoreka already said that what is in the official newsletter is what has reliability and legality and is what everyone knows and knows what it is. In this case we welcome the fact that your party has also thought like Mr Erkoreka, supports this reform, and we have reached agreement among all. And I simply want to thank the rest of the groups for the compromise that we have reached, in the interests, I repeat, of this greater transparency for the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u5	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u6	From the seat, just to say that we agree with the transparency criteria involved in this amendment, and that is why we agreed in the committee and we are working for this to be incorporated, and we voted here in the same direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u7	Thank you, Mr Price. Since the second list on the subject has been left for another purpose... Oh, Gorospe! Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u8	Even ours will be short. Good morning, and thank you all. As the party who has represented Equitainment has said, we only wish to emphasise in the name of the legislative party the immense agreement which we have obtained in doing this doctrine. I'd like to know if you'd like to take a legal offer into the Government Council. It was said at the end of the year's agreement that the purpose of this initiative is over, because it's already made up of transparency, the acquisition of public information and the production of good government in the measures of active advertising and the bill on the Basque Administration, which is now in the legislature. At length, according to all the corrections we have set forth in different groups, and the composition of the law, we made this description. And the commitment to our team is clear and strong to transparency and public information, and although this initiative is not a significant step, it does no harm to it. And we congratulate ourselves on the success of this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Third point in theme list: "To begin with the question of the opposite proposal made by the Eubertist, of the digital division. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Aguire, it's your word to introduce and get rid of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. The subject we bring here today, the problem of the digital process, is a little complex to understand, and perhaps still more difficult to explain here for someone who is not an expert. And, to tell the truth, I am not an expert in these matters, so I will endeavour to explain myself as clearly as possible. But I'd like to remark that my intention is not to interfere in a technical discussion of this kind. On the other hand, I would like to mention that the problem we have here concerns only the collective antennae, and not the antennae is common to individuals or cable to people, because the latter have no difficulty in getting new channels from ETB. The digital TV on Earth (LTD, or Spanish in TDT, television digital terrestre) is an old theme in the Spanish State since the first digital television set up 15 years ago. We all know, or some people know that television sets are moving in the radio radius space and that this radioactive space is limited. Going from analog TV to digital TV creates more efficiency and, thanks to technology and compression, it's possible to pass more signals in the same space and so new frequency free. The place that wins and the benefit it brings, that's the digital divider, the subject we have today. And, as I have said, I shall not enter the technical discussion, but I would like to make a short history or chronology of it. The radioactive space is measured in the European grade, and in 2010, the European board established the frequency for broadcasting digital televisions on the ground, what frequency to use for other services such as the 4G Telephony, telephonia de cuarta geneción. And on the state level the migration from analog television to the world's digital television ended in the 2010 April, and there was an analogic shade or apogagon coming up five years ago. Three months later in July, in July, in 2010, Mr. Rodríguez Zapatero, the government gave Antena 3, Telecnco, Sogecable, Veo 7, Net Television and La Sxer additional channels, and I think this was the beginning of the problem today, why, two years later, in 2012, the Supreme Court decided that these licenses were illegal. Meanwhile, there were elections in Madrid. Popular parties won these elections and in December 2012 they were already prepared to arrange the draft of the royal decree for the digital divider's release. Then why not immediately published the defining decree I don't know. The only thing we know is that Atremedias, Mediasets, and other companies, after all the appeals had been introduced and lost, had been obliged to remove nine chains in May 2014, and to make a terrible quarrel. Finally, the government of the Populative Party, just six months ago, in September 2014, produced a final decree. In the Spanish State, the only person who has the power to map the TV channel is the Minister of Industrie, and, in fact, the change of channels established by the Ministry for ETB has been very fatal, and the people have been forced to put new amplifiers into the collective antennae. I would say that the sum of the decree might be this: good changes and channels, good frequencyes, private television, bad changes, bad channels, public television, including Basque Television. The Grand Director of EIB, Love Iturb, requested an appearance to inform him about this one month ago. The main result is that many antenists are in trouble with equipment supplies and can't supply all requests before the 31st of March 2015. This date will shut down the strings caused by digital divider. It checks that at least 10 or 12 percent of collective antennae are fit. The result is that in ten thousand damaged houses the other television signals will be kept, but they will lose the sign of EIB. So, as the time to get digital television signals is to end on March 31st of 2015, we ask that the Spanish Government only in Biscay and in the Gipus should extend the term for broadcast on two more months until May 31st. We only have the problem in the gym and Bazaz, but Araba's not the same problem. The aim is to allow the entire adaptation of collective animals to these historical areas, and thus to guarantee access to the Euskal national television in every house, which is a basic and youthful service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u11	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Passing the teams that have no corrections, the Mistto-UPyD team. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u12	Only to say that I will vote in favour of the initiative of the Basque Nationalist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u13	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u14	Thank you very much, Madam President. My group is not going to be able to vote in favour, Mr Aguirre, because we actually believe that the decisions that, agreed with the sector, were appropriate to the times have been taken. As you know and as everyone knows, the national technical plan for digital terrestrial television regulates the release of the digital dividend. This plan has always been aimed at minimizing the inconvenience to citizens so that they can continue to watch all television channels, but this has other connotations. We are not just talking about television channels, but we are talking about facilitating a broadband channel, etc., which is also going to revolutionize the use of the Internet by citizens, is going to try to minimize the digital divide, and is actually going to contribute to the definitive implementation of a 4G speed, which is also waiting for all citizens. After a close follow-up – you know this, because I believe that this was already discussed in the General Courts and in the Congress of Deputies – a follow-up to the process through the commission of coordination and follow-up of the actions for the release of this digital dividend, where the whole sector participated... I mean, we have to say, and I think it is good that it is known here, that all the decisions that have been made have been made according to the sector, including the Autonomous Communities and the Forte. And it was determined to extend the deadline, that deadline ending on 31 December, it was determined to extend that deadline for the simultaneous issuance of TDT channels by means of the Royal Decree, which ends on 31 March 2015. This three-month extension until 31 March is agreed with everyone and with the sector. A request was received from the sector that it considered that the new deadline was the most appropriate to complete the process of adaptation of reception facilities in all the buildings concerned. The release of this digital dividend is also a European mandate. This is not a whim of the government. A European mandate is being fulfilled here, and the end of 2014 has been set as a definitive date throughout Europe to put this into effect. Here, indeed, and at the request of the sector and the actors involved, it was decided to extend this period for three months, but it is a European mandate (the 800 megahertz band is being reserved throughout Europe for 4G mobile technology), and it will bring significant benefits, we are convinced, economic and social for citizens, because, in fact, this technology implies an increase in mobile and high-speed data services, with better service in all buildings and greater geographical coverage. What we said before, greater geographical coverage that will reduce what has come to be called the digital divide. We are convinced that it is beneficial for the citizen, and that we are not facing a problem that has the importance that you attach here in bringing and asking for a further extension. The Ministry of Industry, Energy and Tourism has also reminded citizens, through a specific campaign, of the need to adapt before the end of the year, and has done so again in view of this extension of 30 March. Also, first, for a new extension it would take a new decree-law, which you know is no longer going to happen. But, in addition, in the Basque Country you know that we are going far ahead of the rest of Spain, we are ahead of adaptation, with which no problems are generated here anymore. In fact, in the area of the negotiations which you also know have been held with France and Portugal, it has been a requirement of France, by European mandate, that in the neighbouring areas, in particular those affecting our community, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, this process has had to be advanced by demands of France, because, indeed, in Europe, it was determined that border areas could not interfere with the advancement of that broadband in neighbouring countries. This cessation of emissions from border stations that were affecting the provision of the service of these mobile units in neighbouring countries, as I say to you, has taken place. Several broadcasting centres in the Basque Country that affect seventy-five municipalities, as you say, from Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, including San Sebastián, have already been shut down without any incidences – of course, no technical or social impact. And nothing happened, nothing happened. These already go ahead, and nothing has happened in San Sebastián. The process of liberalization in the Basque Country, as I say, is well advanced, it is taking place in a controlled way, it is taking place in a way in which no incidents have been appreciated. With this early liberalisation, for reasons of international coordination with France, the adequacy, that blackout, has already been anticipated for more than 600,000 citizens of the Basque Country. Therefore, one third of the population of Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa have already completed this digital dividend release. Moreover, according to the data available to the Administration, the Government, if we were talking two months ago about an adjustment above 70% for Spain as a whole, figures were already known in the Basque Country that spoke of an adjustment above 80%. So we are convinced that by the end of this period the adjustment in Euskadi in relation to the digital dividend and the new situation will reach about 95 %, will have exceeded 95 % of the cases, and we will be ready to reach 100 % in the coming weeks. That is why we do not understand the need to extend the deadline. Moreover, when it comes to Euskadi, you know – I don't know if you know it, but I think you should know it – that the EITB itself, affected by the new situation, is the one that decided motu proprio, without reaching the deadline of 31 March, to shut down before. EITB has already decided! You can see: it turned off, in addition to Oiz, that it was necessary to turn it off for coordination with France, turned off Oiz for that coordination with France, and it has turned off more centers, which could have kept them in simulcast until March 31st. The public body itself has shut down more centers. Moreover, in Itelazpi itself they do not understand why a new extension is being demanded. They understand that the whole process is taking place without any kind of impact, that Euskadi is also in a position to fulfil the commitments regarding that date of 31 March, and, therefore, I say to you, both EITB and Itelazpi have already transferred to Setsi, to this national body, that everything was going well. Even they themselves move that they do not understand why the PNV is currently trying to look for this new extension, when here all the bodies affected and besides the buildings, the particular communities, have put up the piles for a long time, and we are able to successfully face this new situation. According to Fenitel, at the end of February, as I was saying, the data from the Basque Country were, of course, already more than 80% more than adequate, and they were convinced that they would be close to 100% by the end of March. We therefore believe that appropriate measures have been taken; that, first, sufficient information and adequate information have been given as early as possible, and the Government has also put in place an aid plan (I believe that it has also been taken as a reference model in other countries in our environment), has put in place aid, which has been able to benefit all those communities of individuals who have actually wanted to benefit from it. That is why we understand that at this moment, and also in that final minute of this process, there is no point in delaying further the arrival of the 4G band, the fast band, the high speed band, which is going to reduce, we are convinced, the digital divide also here and throughout Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u15	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Passing on the turn of the answers, the Eunctors represent the group. Mr. Aguire, your word is... Perdón, perdón, perdón, I'm sorry. Estoy un poco sperms. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u16	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. And, with your permission, from the seat. Yes, indeed, on 23 February the director of EITB appeared before this House to give an account of the situation, and there and on other occasions we have had the opportunity to know the difficulties that exist, that, beyond what has been said in the last speech, we consider that they are confined above all to a technical question, the supply of materials and others, by the antenna installers, and therefore we respond to that suggestion. We think it's a technical problem, as I say. It is not a problem of will, nor of..., but simply that in a little longer time the circumstance that we believe is fundamental can be given, and it is that the vast majority of Basque citizens can have the opportunity to connect all channels, including, of course, the Basque public television channels. This has been presented two weeks after the Director-General of EITB has appeared, this proposal has been presented, we are discussing it almost at the end of the matter, but in any case we will vote in favour, hoping that, if it is adopted, as I think it will be, this proposal will have more luck with the Government of Spain than other proposals that are approved here before the Government of this country, before the Basque Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u17	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Now for the answer, Mr Aguire, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u18	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Oyarzabal, you've mixed it all up. He's mixed the dates... Because, indeed, what I pointed out here is that the European Union five years ago said what frequencies should be used for TDT and what frequencies for other services such as 4G telephony. And I also pointed out here that already in December 2012 the People's Party, in the government at that time in Madrid (and today also), had prepared a draft royal decree for the release of the digital dividend, and that it has not published the definitive until September 2014, six months ago. Without talking to the operators. Because, of course, the one who has to put in an amplifier first has to manufacture it, and has to have it available in the market. Antennaists did not have enough amplifiers, and therefore it is not a question of the population not having put on the batteries; it is that the population that has requested the replacement of the amplifiers has not had the opportunity because the antennaists did not have the necessary material. I think I said that a moment ago, too. What I am saying is that there has been a lack of planning by the Government of the Madrid People's Party. And I'm going to read you a part of the decree that you used and that you wrote at the last moment, on December 26, 2014, to postpone the date of the blackout. It says: "Law 7/2010, General of Audiovisual Communication, enshrines the right of all persons to receive plural audiovisual communication", and in particular "emphasizes the role of the public audiovisual communication service in achieving these objectives and defines it as an essential service of general economic interest. It is therefore urgently necessary to extend the deadline for the complete release of the digital dividend, with the aim of making further progress in the process of adapting the reception systems of buildings, and to ensure that the population has access to the full provision of audiovisual communication services". Indeed, the 800 megahertzios frequency band was decided in 2010 that was to be used for mobile telephony, and the rest, the adaptation of the channels, was decided in September 2014, predicting the blackout in December 2014. It doesn't make much sense. I have the numbers that the ministry published here for the Basque Autonomous Community, which says that of 47,000 budgets for antenna adaptation in Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, as of the end of February, 28 February, 41,000 installations have been carried out. There's 6,000 missing! What I said before, 10% or 12% of antennas that will not yet be adapted from here to the digital blackout, which is next Tuesday, blackout of those frequencies. So, we asked, even if it is late, because the ministry has planned it late, we asked for an extension. That won't be possible? I imagine not, because the minister I believe has already given the answer to some of our parliamentarians last night in Madrid. But we ask that the same logic be applied and that Basque public television, from Euskal Telebista, be guaranteed access to all households, as it is an essential public service in Spanish and Basque. And before finishing and thanking the groups that have supported this initiative, especially the Socialist Group, Mr Maneiro and those who are absent today, Euskal Herria Bildu, I would like to ask that for the next release of the digital dividend, which is already underway and, as a newspaper (The Economist) headlined in January, "Brussels prepares another frequency resyntonization in TDT before six years", and says: "Europe plans its second digital dividend while Spain has not yet finished the first"... I would ask, since in Gipuzkoa the ministry has granted Euskal Telebista a frequency of broadcast that will disappear again in the year 2021, that at least for the second digital release things will be done a little better, as is being done in France by the Superior Council of Audiovisual, which has already begun to speak with all actors, all involved, private and public operators, material manufacturers, antenists, etc. And that's all. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u19	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Miss... He won't say a word. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u20	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Aguirre, indeed, we could have done better. Everything is better in this life. But, while in other countries they did their homework five years ago, in Spain the socialist government did not do them, and the People's Party arrived and we actually started with the delay in Spain, because the socialists had not done their homework in time. But we have tried to meet them, and we have tried to put ourselves on time. And what you want now is to delay. They say, "No, listen, it's that in Europe they're already going ahead, and they're going to start with the second and we're not done with the first." And what you're asking here is for us to delay the first one? No, no, Hey, we're in perfect condition to take this step to that new band. We are convinced that this is an important step. First, there are five fundamental reasons, I have explained them to you. First, the deadline was agreed with the sector, and with the Forta. But we're not just talking about TV channels. We're talking about the Internet, we're talking about high speed on the Internet, we're talking about 4G and other things. Not just if they're going to watch one less television channel in a house now for a week and a half. We're not talking about that. Secondly, it is a European mandate that we must fulfil. Thirdly, the decisions that have already been taken have been forced, because that European mandate (and our community limits it to France) requires a series of decisions that affect Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, and those decisions have had to be advanced, as in all border areas in Europe. Fourthly, because of the economic benefits that the 4G speed will bring, in addition to reducing the digital gap, as we have said, and meeting the commitments of this European digital agenda, which proposed to reach by 2020 the broadband coverage of 30 megabytes per hundred percent of the population and must be fulfilled, and it will bring economic benefits for everyone, for the Basque Country as well, for the whole of Spain. And fifth reason. I have told you that, if the EITB itself has advanced the shutdown of the simulcast in some issuing centres by not exhausting the date of 31 March, what is the point of saying now that the Spanish Government is proposing an extension for the whole of Spain, if the EITB itself here has not even wanted to exhaust the deadlines? It has already started work before and has closed many centres in advance. We are convinced that this digital dividend band is being used for the fourth generation of mobile telephony in Spain and Europe, and its liberalisation will allow the Spanish economic sector to follow the lead in Europe. And he's in telecommunications. Don't come here and tell me we're in line, no. In the telecommunications sector Spain is at the forefront of Europe. Do not tell other stories here that are not real and that are not true! Telecommunications operators invest some 5.4 billion euros annually in Spain, generating more than 52,000 jobs. And with the 4G all the experts' studies say that it will continue to grow, that this sector will continue to grow, and will continue to generate added value around it, like the million skilled jobs that have been created in our country around the design of mobile applications in recent years. That will continue to grow, and that is a country bet also for the Basque Country. Similarly, 4G influences the productivity of companies, and with the possibility, as you know, of improving telework, etc., of reducing the digital divide through reaching all geographical areas, those that currently have a vacuum in relation to this, we are convinced that it will facilitate the work of many other companies as well. We are approaching the goal of this digital agenda – and I will finish now, Madam President – and we are also convinced that, as studies say, this is going to generate..., that band penetration means an increase in gross domestic product by around 0.9 %. Between 0.9% and 1.5%, experts are saying that it is going to lead to an increase in GDP in Spain and also in the Basque Country. We cannot stop this, we cannot stop it now simply because we are..., in addition to being ahead of the whole of Spain, because we are at 98 % and because it affects certain buildings that within the week and a half or two weeks will be perfectly updated to see all the television channels. But we're not playing TV here, Mr. Aguirre. We don't play here watching TVs. We're playing a lot more, and we're playing to stay at the forefront of Europe in digital technology. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u21	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u22	Again, back from the seat. Look, Mr Oyarzabal, when there is no political will for the citizens of this country to have the opportunity to connect with all televisions, any apology is good. Especially if that apology is to throw balls out and blame others. Look, just as an extension was made on 31 December until the end of March, it can be made of two months. All the reasons you have given down there do not serve anything, but simply to justify a political attitude that you have, the null will that the possibility of connecting all channels, including those of the Basque public entity, be on the part of all Basque citizens. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u23	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Now that the dispute has been ended, we will vote against another proposal as a team of eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 51; votes given, 52; in favour 44; the contrary, 8; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u24	Original text has been supported. Before we go on, I mean that the fourth point has been abandoned for another, the fifth and the seventh have been cancelled. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposal made by the Socialists by the law was made by the law, and the use of the Japanese and local commercial enterprises which the Public Administration of the EAE has without occupation. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Ichaso, a Basque Socialist representative, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u25	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, all of you. Lehendakari, egun on. The Socialists have another initiative this morning that is faithful to our proposed tradition, in which it is proposed that the empty premises dependent on the Department of Employment, Housing and Social Policies, which in response to our group raised a figure of about 131 premises... We spoke on the initiative of assigning those who have taken more than twelve empty months for entrepreneurship purposes. Anyone who has had occasion at some point to consider an entrepreneurship initiative and who lacks resources knows that one of the most critical needs is to have a space to develop the entrepreneurship project or the entrepreneurship project. And we understand that an important park of empty premises can perfectly be destined and mobilized for a utility of this nature. We understand that this is a good idea, because, among other things, the amendments taken by the groups do not at all discuss the central idea of the proposal. And, therefore, with no substantive discrepancies, we think that this actually corroborates the fact that it is an interesting idea. We have reached a compromise with the Nationalist Group that improves the original initiative, because it would no longer be dedicated only to the premises that took more than twelve empty months, but all of them. And it also introduces a caution that seems important to us, and it is that of subjecting it to a program that takes into account each project, and that in the attention to it it can be carried out the realization of the necessary works and take into account the periods of deficiency and others. It seems to us, of course, to be a good agreement, which is actually based on the amendment of the whole of the Nationalist Party, and in that sense it is almost an invasion of the approach of the Basque Nationalist Party. But there is a fundamental reason, a fundamental reason that is not written, which is what we think is most important in order to subscribe in the terms in which the Nationalist Party proposes its entire amendment, to move it almost with complete fidelity to the compromise amendment, and it is the need for this agreement to be complied with. During this parliamentary term, this parliamentarian who speaks has intervened in a few debates and in proposals, both from his group and from other groups, in which agreements have been adopted that, in view of the government's relationship with us on compliance, or rather I would say non-compliance with the agreements, I see with disappointment that most of the agreements in which this parliamentarian has intervened, or do not appear in the relationship, or there is some reason, ultimately deleterious why they are not implemented. We have therefore embraced without any doubt the terms of the approach taken by the Nationalist Group, because it seems to us more important that this agreement and the terms of it be carried out than the fact of seeking a semantic discussion on the terms of a drafting, to see whether or not there is closure in these debates prior to the vote. It seems to us more important that those 131 premises, which appear in the Government's response to this, should be allocated than the fact, in short, of discussing conceptual or semantic issues. That is why we have embraced the terms he raises without any kind of discussion or contradiction. On the other hand, it is a text that does not offer us any difficulty either, it is a good text, and in that sense I must also say that in politics it is appropriate from time to time to accept that the opponent's thesis can be well formulated. That is why we are proposing this compromise amendment so that these empty premises can be used for business projects. We ask for adherence to those who do not subscribe to it, and nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u26	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u27	Madam President, from the seat to explain that our group has signed the compromise that we have just presented to the Bureau between the Basque Socialist Group, the Basque Nationalist Group, the Mixto-UPyD Group and the People's Group. We, of course, believe that with the aim of job creation we have to try to find ways to get out of many of those premises located in public promotions, and through the formula that is considered at this time most appropriate, at the present time and at the current juncture, we believe that it is important that from the Basque Government, and also according to the municipalities, this work is promoted to facilitate self-employment for young people, and that, for the generation of micro-enterprises and new businesses, those premises, these new business opportunities are facilitated. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u28	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u29	Thank you, President. I too embrace the transactional that we have finally signed. I think it is a good agreement, and therefore, in addition to signing and embracing it, I will vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u30	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Altarage, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u31	Thank you, ma'am. President, members of the legislature, chief officers, good morning to all. The perception that we have from our group of the approach that the Socialist Party has made to us is that it is somewhat a position – if I may say so, Mr Itxaso, in a loving tone – a bit quevedesque, because with this initiative the Socialist Party is doing what Quevedo advised men who wanted to presume to be seductive of women, who, in order to appear to be following them, advised them to stand before them. "If you want women to follow you, stand in front of them," he wrote specifically. And you, in order to be able to say that the Government is acting at its own initiative, are presenting initiatives on those issues on which the Government is already working. All the possibilities that we are going to explain to you below are already being realized by the Government, as I say, several months ago. Gaur egun Enplegu Sailak, jabego moduan, 150 merkataritza-lokal hutsik dauzka. Gehienak babes publikoko etxebizitzen beheko soliruetan daude. And these premises are spread across the entire geography of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, in the three territories, and are also located in the main municipalities. On the other hand, it is an obligation of any government to properly manage the assets of its ownership in order to guide it towards the achievement of the general public interests. The current Government has among its central objectives the promotion activity aimed at the creation of enterprises, the generation of jobs. For its part, in line with this objective, the Department of Employment, from the Housing area, has been working on the dynamism of the stock of commercial premises in its possession resulting from public housing promotions. And he's been working, as I say, usually. What happens is that these are properties that from a commercial point of view in many cases are unattractive, because of their geographical location compared to the most dynamic areas of the municipalities from an economic point of view. The problems arising from the current socio-economic context should be added to this problem of location. And it must be done, in our view, from a triple point of view. Firstly, to generate income to strengthen public housing policies. Secondly, with the aim of reducing the costs of maintaining this unoccupied public park. And finally, to achieve a social return, aimed at meeting the general objective of supporting and encouraging the creation of new businesses. The formulas of dynamism can be several: rent with alternative support, rent with option of purchase, transformation of premises into houses, reserve premises for entities for the purpose of local insertion... and there would be a fourth position, which would be to carry out a cost-benefit analysis for the community over a period of ten years, for example, and depending on it to establish competitive or low selling prices, i.e. a purely economic operation. But, in principle, that is not the objective, but the objective of guiding them, as we said, towards the achievement of that objective of facilitating the creation of enterprises and the generation of jobs. We have reached, as Mr Itxaso said, an agreement between all the groups, because I believe that we agree in essence, rather than in some matters of substance, and I would like to thank all of them for their support for this mode of action by the Government to support the overcoming of this stage of initial risk posed by entrepreneurs, those who want to set up a company, at the outset, as I say, by providing them with support from the housing area of the Department of Employment in the form of physical support and, to the extent possible, taking into account, as I said, the current socio-economic circumstances. We also believe that a product should be offered with characteristics and conditions that will serve to reinforce those intended specifically for the creation of enterprises from other areas of government. And, without further ado, thanking the rest of the groups, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u32	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u33	With your permission, President. Thanks to the groups involved in the transaction, and, with the same affection, I want to tell Mr Aldaiturriaga that there is nothing in front of him. In any case, behind it, seeking compliance with the agreements emanating from the majorities of this Parliament. Only on this occasion we have decided that the majority will also comply with you, to verify that, for once, an agreement reached by this majority is being implemented. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u34	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Mr. Oyre generous shouldn't speak a word. Mr. Altar won't speak a word. After discussion, we'll vote for the middle-term correction signed by Basque Socialists, UPyD, the populars of Eukal and Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 51; votes given, 52; 5, 52; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u35	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. The eighth point in the subject list: "The other proposal of the Socialists of Euscal, as a team of Parliaments, is to proceed in the course of a game planned by GLL's unresponsemented poverty to answer cases of myrgetic. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Rojo, the Basque Socialist, represents the team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u36	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. I will start by saying that today is an important day, even if this plenary is so fast and different from others, because today, thanks to the initiative of the Socialist Party and the budget line that it was able to include in the budget debate, energy poverty is recognised as a reality more within the poverty of Basque society. And that budget line, which was EUR 200,000, will be able to take effect and start helping the families who have been buried in this situation. I must therefore say that the agreement seems important to me, and I should like to thank Mr Maneiro in advance for the facilities he has put in place in order to arrive at the compromise amendment that the two groups have signed. But, in agreement and in a positive way with what we have signed here, I believe that the Basque Government, the government led by Mr Urkullu, is not exempt from criticism of what has to do with this issue. On the one hand, more than a year of non-compliance, because on 27 February a non-legislative proposal was adopted in this plenary, urging the Basque Government to carry out its work on energy poverty. And of that support in this full nothing. On the other hand, the Basque Government, and the party that supports it, are denying this new face of poverty. On different occasions, I believe that on nine occasions, the Socialist Party has brought energy poverty into this House as a new reality in the society to which solutions had to be put, and on the part of the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party always a no by answer. On the other hand, the criticism of the opposition vote on the part of the Basque Nationalist Party in the Bureau on the urgent handling of this non-law proposal, which leads us to debate this on 26 March, with the spring already begun, when energy poverty really refers to bills, usually in the winter months, which families in this Basque case cannot cope with. But, well, it's true that it's never too late if the bliss is good. Recognizing this agreement reached, knowing in advance that it will not come out by the position of the Basque Nationalist Party, we say that the... Looks like it's coming out, a last-minute change. These are live stuff. Well, I'm going on, because I'm worth the surgery. But, come on, I thank Mr Caro for now signing the compromise amendment. He said that the 200,000 euros included by the Basque Socialist Party in the budget we recognize at the outset that they may not be enough, but they are the first step for the Basque public administration to be able to provide solutions to these families. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has included this issue in the parliamentary agenda in different ways, through initiatives in the plenary, through non-legislative proposals in ordinary plenary, and through this economic item in the budgets. And the answer is true that it was not what the socialists wanted, but the important thing is that today the scenario is different, which shows that the information received, the reports and the demands of the third sector draw us a clear and obvious reality. As we all know, we talk about energy poverty when a vulnerable consumer spends more than 10% of their income on paying for energy consumption. With the latest data, we know that there are more than 7 million families in Spain who are in this situation. And in Euskadi, although we recognize that the percentage of families suffering from this situation is lower, it is true that in this last winter it has not stopped growing. That is why we say that there are more than 90,000 Basques affected by this situation. We believe that on this issue, as on others, we are late, but the important thing is that today the first point is put to solve the problem. The Basque socialists start from the fact that in Euskadi, perhaps, we have the best social protection model in Spain, a model that is based on our capacity for self-government, up to turning access to a minimum income into a subjective right. But the truth is that, although our system may be the best, although wages are much higher than in the rest of Spain, about 4% of the Basque population is in energy poverty. The economic crisis does not end with the consequences on families, in this case Basques; wages continue to fall, while energy does not stop rising. The working circumstances of families are far from desirable, and energy poverty is not a problem either of GIR or of AES. We must give a solution to those who cannot pay the bills and are forced to choose between eating, paying bills, or paying other expenses. In an oral question to the lehendakari on this subject I myself ended my intervention by saying that we have to be able to find a way for no one to stay without being able to warm their home or their food because they cannot afford it. And this is where this non-law proposition lies. Since the first debate on this subject, more than a year ago, the scenario has changed substantially, and the work of the third sector in this field has been crucial in order to cope with situations that have arisen. That is why we ask the Government to develop an agreement with those who know the reality of this situation, with those who know who are the applicants for energy poverty, and who have been dealing with these bills for a long time. The second point of the initiative speaks of the need for the Government to mediate with the companies involved in the issue and not allow any family to be cut off from light or gas. And the third point of the compromise amendment is that the Government is able to implement energy efficiency and efficiency measures in those households that are known to suffer from energy poverty. I'm not going to go into the explanation of the subject, because I think it's the tenth time we've discussed this. I believe that there has been extensive development of what is and who is affected by energy poverty, and what we have to stay with today is that, thanks to the latest incorporation into the compromise amendment, it seems that this agreement with the Government will be a reality. And it is also a way of recognizing the work done by the third sector, and we hope that from now on we will never have to put in the budget of the Autonomous Community a nominative heading for energy poverty, but, if we are to do so again, perhaps it should be wider in order to be able to solve all the families. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u37	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. In this very brief meeting we shall discuss this subject again. I think that the position of the Populative party is fairly clear and clear on the notice proposed. It is clear that we are dealing with a matter of citizen concern, of citizen alarm, which, as we have shown from the People's Party in this rostrum on numerous occasions, can be dealt with from different institutional areas, and each, of course, from within its powers. We believe that there is scope here to put in place measures to alleviate all the problems arising from energy poverty, because we are firmly convinced that the Basque Government has powers, and that in this area it cannot throw balls out, because it has powers and should exercise them. Addressing the problem of energy poverty can be addressed in two areas of action. One of them is the reduction in the cost of energy bills (gas and light), or also to affect disposable income, the income that families have, especially looking at families who are in a situation of greater vulnerability and who are experiencing it worse in the context of economic crisis. And from the People's Party we believe that action can be taken in this twofold area, and in this respect we have tabled our amendment. We have also recently had the opportunity to discuss an initiative regarding the possible modification of the GIR, but we believe that the Basque Government should consider very sincerely and very firmly the possibility of modifying the GIR to take into account precisely the situations of people affected by energy poverty, so that for us – and this is our point of view – it is not addressed and fought as much as a social emergency, but as a basic need that needs to be guaranteed. That is why we are talking about modifying the GIR and we are not talking about social emergency aid. In recent debates, on this issue, the issue has been focused on social emergency aid, but when we are talking about social emergency aid, we are talking about aid that is specific in nature and that has a specific purpose to alleviate exceptional situations. And so we are talking about very concrete aid, aid that the Basque Government pays but manages the municipalities, and we are seeing how that aid is also insufficient to meet the needs and requests of the municipalities. That is why we believe that this is not the right solution, and, seeing that we are, as has been said here, facing one of the most advanced protection systems not only in the rest of Spain, but throughout Europe, the debate on increasing the disposable income of these people should be clearly framed in a change in income security income, which, as you all know, is a subjective right and can therefore be demanded to the extent that the requirements required by law are met. Because we are also absolutely convinced that the aid, the economic benefits provided for in the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act, must obviously be allocated to those people who really need it, and here we are talking about groups who may need it. Another aspect that we consider to be relevant, as I pointed out, is the reduction in the cost of energy bills, and in this regard we have raised our second point: "Implementation of energy saving and efficiency measures in energy-poor households so that basic needs are guaranteed". We are talking about measures that can be implemented and that aim to reduce the energy bill, that buildings consume less and that more efficient consumption is made. We are talking about measures that can be arbitrated in relation to roofs, windows, the use of appliances. These are, therefore, the two points on which we believe we need to stress and are the points that are reflected in a whole amendment. I do not know the compromise amendment. I know Mrs. Red has made reference to her. I imagine she's finally signed, or I don't know, I haven't had a chance to see her. In any case, we are proposing an amendment as a whole because we do not agree with the approaches taken by the Socialist Party, which is proposing the initiative. I am not going to focus on the EH Bildu group, because it is obviously not part of any debate today, following the decision taken and the spectacle given again today in this House, but I am going to focus on the amendment put forward by the Nationalist Party, which is once again a repetition. Mr Carro has repeated to us today an amendment that he also raised in one of the previous debates that we had on this issue, and again the Basque Nationalist Party always making victimism, always looking for confrontation and always trying to safeguard its competence, but then, when it really has competence on a question like this, it does not want to face the problems at the front, throws balloons out and again appeals to the central executive on issues. I want to say that measures are being taken by the central government in the energy field, and very important measures which, of course, are enabling a situation to be reversed in these three years in this field, and above all measures which had to be taken for some time now which are structural measures. We are talking about specific issues of the decree already under way, the social bond of electricity. The social gas bonus is pending, but this issue is within the scope of the General Hydrocarbons Act and is therefore an issue that will also be regulated. We hope that the Basque Nationalist Party, which brings this issue here and which so much urges the Government of Spain, will then have a favourable attitude in the Congress of Deputies on this issue. And you all also know that the regulation of self-consumption is being regulated and will soon be approved. Progress in the area of State legislation is therefore there. And what I regret is that once again the Basque Government, instead of looking at what can be done from here, then look at others and try to shift the responsibilities they do not exercise to others and therefore fail to fulfil their obligations and commitments to Basque society. In principle, we will maintain our amendment, which I believe reflects the two areas of action that we believe can be addressed, and we will also see the position of the other groups that have tabled amendments. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u39	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Eubertarians mustn't speak. Missa-UPyD, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u40	Yes, thank you very much, President. Good morning, all of you, counselors, Mr. lehendakari. On 27 February 2014, more than a year ago, an initiative on this issue was already approved in this House, which was breached by this government. That initiative said that this Parliament urged the Basque Government, in exercising its capacity for self-government, to put in place the necessary measures to prevent any citizen from being able to cut off light, water or gas if he is in a demonstrable situation of not being able to meet his bills, especially in times of greatest demand. Such a text was re-adopted at the end of 2014, and that parliamentary mandate has also been breached by this Government, thus demonstrating its absolute lack of sensitivity to thousands of citizens who are suffering from so-called energy poverty. Today, 150,000 Basque families spend a disproportionate amount of money on domestic energy. Energy poverty, which affects those families unable to maintain an adequate temperature in their homes, affected 4% of households in Euskadi in 2012, resulting in 87,000 people. And in 2013 this figure increased to 90,000 affected. Today there are thousands of citizens who continue to suffer from energy poverty, those who continue to go cold, especially in winter, as the current Social Policy Advisor acknowledged in this House a few weeks ago questions from this group. And this seems absolutely unacceptable to us, that is, that the Councilman himself recognizes that there are thousands of Basque citizens who have been cold this winter, and then he says yes, that they are actually acting late and wrong, because they have not yet enabled that budget item which you voluntarily signed with the Socialist Group and which UPyD, by the way, also supported, even though it was a item which in our view was clearly insufficient. The Government has therefore listened deafly to this Parliament's request to present concrete measures against energy poverty. In this particular case he will not be able to accuse other governments, he will not be able to accuse the Government of Spain, because he will have to look at what this Government has actually done under its powers. And the truth is that he has done very little or practically nothing in relation to this issue. It has therefore shown enormous insensitivity to this issue, despite repeated attempts by various parliamentary groups to show it the importance of the issue. The current budget introduced an amount of EUR 200,000 to alleviate the needs of Basque families who could not cope with energy bills and thus alleviate so-called energy poverty. This item was introduced in the budgets. At the end of January, UPyD raised a question to Mr Toña about the exact fate of the financial item, what costs would be incurred if the item were to be integrated into the budget for the municipalities of the Autonomous Community for ESAs, and the Government's forecast of the number of citizens who would benefit from the available resources. During the budget debate, it was argued that including this item in the budget was a matter of social justice and urgency, which justified this group's question in the first month of the budget. We asked that question in writing, and the Government replied to us at that time: "The Social Services Directorate of the Department of Employment and Social Policy today" (i.e. February 18) "is working to define and determine the most effective mechanism for distributing this item among the potential beneficiaries of it. But today we haven't decided." That is what he said on 18 February, although he had signed a transaction with the Socialist Group so that this item could be included in the budgets. Sign an item to include it in the budgets, and two months later he says he doesn't know how to articulate that item. And he said, "We estimate that in a short time we will have the answers to the questions he asks us." Finally, we asked an oral question to the Councillor, here present, on the issue, and certainly the Councillor was very sincere. He said that "We are working to identify and determine a more effective mechanism than we have had so far, so that the aid that provides for the allocation of EUR 200,000, which is included in the budget, reaches the people who receive it." They were studying it. The objective, he said, which we also share, is to "direct this aid to other groups that may be left out of social emergency aid". And he said that "it's not as simple as you can think to identify these groups, it's not as simple to articulate the procedures for providing such aid. That is why I reiterate to you that we are working to give an answer as appropriate and as quickly as possible." Two months later, the Government still did not know how to articulate that departure or to what recipients it could affect, and I believe this demonstrates the inability of this Government to solve one of the essential problems of society, or at least thousands of Basque citizens: energy poverty. What else did the counselor say? The councilman himself said that "there are citizens who are passing cold", in a boast of sincerity. The councilman himself, while saying that this party is paralysed, tells us that there are thousands of citizens who are getting cold. "We have on the table a non-legislative proposal urging us to articulate aid through third sector entities. We've got her." That is to say, the adviser, the Government, reminds an opposition group that yes, they do have a non-law proposal on the table, which we are debating today. That is, it gives the impression that this Government, if it does not have a non-legislative proposal from an opposition group, does not move and does nothing, rather than observe what the real problems of society are. And certainly, although we appreciate the sincerity of this new adviser, it gives us the feeling that this Government continues to demonstrate an immense inability to resolve this issue, to deal with it as it deserves. And the counselor also asked questions about the question: "How do we prove that they have no right to receive aid? To whom is the help directed, to people or to living units? When they share housing, how do we control the overall economic situation of housing? What do we do with people who are entitled to be tax collectors who have run out of emergency aid because the budget has run out?". You will know what you have to do or how this game is articulated, but you signed this game with the Socialist Group. They're supposed to know exactly what to do with it. And, of course, it was an urgent budget item, which had to be applied when before better, and certainly throughout this winter, no longer the following winter. And the counselor said: "As you see, if we want the departure to be used rigorously, to really reach out to those who are destined and on equal terms, we have to make previous decisions that require their time." The Councilman was still asking for time on 28 February, after signing that budget line. The counselor agreed with UPyD. He said, "And I agree with you, Mr. Maneiro, we're late. We are responsible for the delay, I am responsible for the delay." Which I already say honors you. "And what I do assure you," he continued, "is that in 2016 those people who address this government in response to this departure, which has also been approved, will not be as cold as this year." That is to say, it recognized that as a result of the fact that this party had not been enabled, thousands of citizens have been cold in Euskadi during this winter, and this seems unacceptable to us. Well, on the basis of all this, the Socialist Group is presenting its initiative. We are presenting an amendment, and in this amendment we do not specifically say how this heading has to be articulated; what we do say is that this government has to be sensitive and has to solve this problem. That is what we basically said in this amendment, in addition to asking, of course, for the censorship of this Government for not having acted more diligently and for having failed to comply with a multitude of parliamentary agreements on this issue. Finally, we have signed that transaction with the Socialist Group. It has also been signed by the Basque Nationalist Party. We are happy, but we want this problem to be fulfilled and resolved, and the situation in which thousands of Basque citizens find themselves is being addressed. We cannot allow what has already happened in the winter of 2015 to happen again in 2016, in the winter of 2016, that thousands of citizens will be cold again in their homes as a result of this government's inaction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u41	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Carroll, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all good days. You see, we've been fighting poverty for seventeen years, and energy poverty for seventeen years. Then this isn't new. Another thing is that we have recently named energy poverty, but aid for water, electricity and gas expenditure is already covered by social emergency aid. What have we added this year? Those who do not enter social emergency assistance. This specific amount of EUR 200,000 is granted to those families who have energy poverty but are not part of social emergency aid, i.e. that they do not receive income guarantee income or social emergency aid. Then it's new, and I thank the Socialist Party for that initiative, but we've been fighting energy poverty for seventeen years now, and so have they when they ruled. Then that's a reality. What's going on? For also in the definition of energy poverty..., as there is a broad consensus to identify the three factors as the main causes of this energy poverty, such as low economic income, low energy efficiency of housing or high energy prices, at the research level this whole matter still faces major difficulties in making a common definition and a consensual measurement system. We had the World Health Organization, which defined it as "the inability of a household to meet a minimum amount of energy services for its basic needs, such as keeping housing in adequate climate conditions for health." Logically, this becomes difficult for the administration when they are not collected within the social emergency aid, that is, they are already families that go out, apart, logically, as the counselor well explained... And also because the Basque Nationalist Party is a responsible party, and this government too, and I believe that Mr Maneiro should speak more with the Socialist Group, so that he can tell a little more about the history of this party, and the work that the department itself has done to develop this party. But, logically, even companies in the third sector find it difficult to establish criteria, and that is why the compromise amendment, which was not in the Socialist Party's initial amendment and yet in the compromise amendment, has been taken up (which I am grateful for, in our yes that it was taken up), is that these criteria had to be laid down. Why? Because, when faced with how these €200,000 are distributed, these third sector groups have problems in having a clear definition of how to distribute such aid. These criteria must then be established. That's hard, and because of that difficulty... I am not going to analyse why the Socialist Party can bring it here or not, but it is true that this is a difficulty, which I think you can recognise, in establishing those criteria and in order to be able to give that line of aid. Well, as far as we are concerned, I think it is no longer a question of seeing what the Government itself can say, but what the reports, whether that of Caritas, the seventh report... And we have seen how, when establishing these comparisons at the level of the Spanish State, "the income guarantee income of the Basque Country gives rise to a different program, comparable in terms of coverage to those of the countries of central or northern Europe, and clearly removed from the rest of the minimum income of insertion of autonomy". I mean, we have a good system, which we can improve – and that I thank the Socialist Party – which is where we have to work. But what we must not forget – and in reply to the spokesman of the People's Party, who criticizes that we do not meet our responsibilities – must not be forgotten what the European Economic Community says in its 2009 directives on electricity regulation and gas. And they clearly explain that the social bonus has to be made. And that social bonus, even though the spokesman for the People's Party tells us what is to be done, in the electricity system has already been done since 2013. What happens is that he is required to do more than that Community directive, and he does not. And we could get out, but I think this is not the case, how many times they have said that they are going to put the social gas bonus, and I hope that as soon as possible the social gas bonus can be regulated at the level of the Spanish State. That is important, because that is also a very important measure for many families in the Basque Country to be able to accept this social gas bonus. And more here, that in our three capitals most, more than 60% of all our families, get heating through the piped gas. Then that social bonus is important. And also, that they cannot be cut off from that gas or electricity line in circumstances that appear to them, that is also reflected in the 2009 directive of the European Economic Community, and that must be moved here. But that hasn't been done. After the first points of our amendment to the whole appear all these requirements to the Government of Spain (from the social bonus, from a basic right to what is energy...), they are perfectly integrated here. And then we don't omit our responsibilities. Of course they're there! And they have it in the last few points, which we tell them to continue to maintain these social emergency aid. As long as that can't be done by the state, we've already picked it up, and let's keep working. And then on our last point is what we are talking about, how to improve the GNP presented by the Socialist Party. And we have reached a compromise agreement, with which we are pleased to continue to take a step further in this line of work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u43	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. Passing the answer shift, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u44	Yes, thank you, President. Very briefly to say that, Mr Carro, we have not been working for seventeen years to eradicate energy poverty. It is fair that we are able to say what we have done well, that many things have been done well by those who have had the privilege of being able to rule the Basque Country, but there are many things that have not been done. Some because they did not want to do so, others because they were not part of the political ideal of the one who ruled at that time, and others because, in fact, they were not part of the political social agenda at that time, at the juncture in which each one ruled. Because if we had been working for seventeen years to eradicate energy poverty, Euskadi would have had an energy plan that would have been able to respond to this problem, and we do not have it. And we would have been able to work for another kind of energy, cheaper energy, more accessible energy; we would have worked for self-consumption, and we would have been in a different energy system. And, as we have all recognized here a million times, the energy debate is an issue that is an outstanding subject for everyone. So many things will have been done, but, of course, working to put in place measures to eradicate energy poverty, no. Another thing is what belongs to the ESAs and the RGI, which is something else, which I said in my first speech that I recognize that the Basque protection system is privileged if we compare it with the rest of Spain. Yes, that's true, but it's true that energy poverty is born for those people who stay out of that system, as you said well. For those people that you have denied during nine socialist initiatives, because you understood that ESAs and RGI already covered those families. And that is why the Socialist Party over and over again, up to nine times, brought energy poverty to this House, so that we could be able to recognize that there was a collective of society that was left out of that wonderful Basque social protection system. So, let's call things by their name. Euskadi goes ahead of many things if we compare it with other autonomous communities, it is true, but seventeen years of fighting energy poverty does not. And we each assume our responsibilities, each that is his or her own. The Socialist Party has also ruled Euskadi, and I will also not say that, well, I was on the first point of the government program this, because it is not true. But it is true that because the economic crisis was not what it is today either, because the consequences of the crisis were not what they are today, because neither were the salaries five years ago as it was fifteen years ago or last year, and that I hope it will improve from now on. Therefore, I do not think we should pretend to be the ones to solve everything, when it really is not. On the other hand, I would like to say to Mr Maneiro that this initiative is under way. I know that the Basque Government is working on it, I know that it has contacted the third sector... It seems good to me, it also seems responsible to me, because I think that's what you should do to be able to make this game a reality. And, therefore, the only thing I can tell you is that I thank those who have signed the agreement. I think from today on it will be a turning point. I think it is important to recognise the work done by the third sector. It is true that a group of people who do not come to the administration arrives in the third sector, and it is they who are able to recognize which families they need, because they are already paying bills with their own funds, and we all know that, and those who know that group best are them, and therefore it is to put in the hands of the third sector what they are already doing, but with support from the public administration. We therefore only hope that the Government will soon be able to conclude this agreement with the third sector, as I say, and that the implementation of this budget line will be a reality and that the winter will finally end for those families who have not been able to pay the bills. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u45	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u46	Well, this government, as always, entering into contradictions, because always demanding competences, confronting for alleged competitive invasions, seeing continuously ghosts where there are no ghosts, and when it has competences in a matter, clear, in which taking measures can clearly improve the quality of life of Basque citizens, so, look to the Government of Spain to get the chestnuts out of the fire. Again, the Government of Spain, because it seems that this Government, on certain strategic issues, is absolutely paralysed. It seems a lie that the Basque Nationalist Party, which stands as such a defender of our self-government and our powers, then, when it has competence, is not worthy to exercise them or to implement measures according to its competence. Look, Mr Carro, I have told you very clearly: decree of the social bond of electricity, decree of the social bond of gas in processing (and let us hope that in the law you do not put sticks on the wheels and support it), and the regulation of self-consumption is being regulated and will soon be approved. "Spain takes forward the common energy market to ensure energy supply at a lower cost." That is recent news, in a joint signature with France, Portugal and the European Commission. The Government of the People's Party moves from statements to facts, which the Basque Government does not do, having competence. It fills his mouth with which we have one of the best social protection systems, and then he is unable to meet all the social emergency aid, leaving the municipalities tossed, because he does not cover all the requests. And then it is unable to make the relevant changes in income guarantee income, which is where you have to do them, because they are a subjective right, to attend to these situations of people who are experiencing it worse. Or not to mention the successive cuts in birth and conciliation aid, which we see again this year's aid is not going to cover the applications that are going to be requested this year. Yes, I am saying this, Mrs Arregi, to contextualize and to see that this government, which has competence and speaks about that we have one of the most advanced protection systems not only in Spain, but in the rest of Europe, then, when it can do things, it does not do them, and it comes down to paralysis when it comes to putting money for things really important and really for the priority, which shows that this government again forgets the Basque families, and the Basque families that are going through it worse. And look, Mr Carro, it is that the electrical system comes from great imbalances, as you know, after the eight years of government of the Socialist Party, which you, lords of the Basque Nationalist Party, supported, because then you supported all of Mr Zapatero's decisions in Madrid. Therefore, they already have some co-responsibility in many of the decisions that were also taken in this area. And, to remember, how electricity tariffs increased by 63% between 2005 and 2012, how the price for middle families rose by 66.26%, how a debt of 27,530 million was accumulated, which was tried to alleviate by firing the light bill, and that if no measures had been put in place, as this government has so far put in place measures to protect the consumer, the electricity bill would have risen to 42%. It can therefore be said clearly that the electricity tariff has been curbed, and the system has been revised precisely to ensure its sustainability and between 2008 and 2014 reduce the deficit by more than 40%, that deficit we had of those years, and that in the end, which is what it is, the price is more competitive, because it is something essential for the electricity sector and for the continued generation of employment. In other words, the People's Party in the Government of Spain is clear on what are the priorities (generating jobs, a competitive industrial sector), and for this it has made structural reforms, several of them in the energy sector. While this Government, where it has competence, does nothing, it is paralyzed, and on top of that it tries to have other governments do, in order to try to target themselves as well. Well, put on the batteries, gentlemen, because you have a lot to do for the Basque families, and it is clear that this is not one of your priority concerns, given the issues we are seeing recently with the decisions you are taking. Finally, in the compromise amendment on the first point, we are going to abstain, on the understanding that in the end it is a patch. I want to say that it is clear that there is a heading that needs to be implemented, but we believe that the debate needs to be framed within income guarantee income, which is a competition area of its own and where there is room. And points 2 and 3, seeing that the 3 is the point put by the People's Party in its amendment, we will subscribe them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u47	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u48	Yes, thank you. Mr Caro said that we have been fighting poverty for seventeen years. We recognize that we have been in a better situation for many years than the rest of the autonomous communities, there is no doubt. We enjoy a good social protection system: income guarantee income, social emergency aid... Finally, there are countless data that tell us this, that we are actually better than in the rest of Spain. You have to recognize it, you have to say it, it's exactly like that. But, even though it has a good Basque social protection system, what is raised is that we must also look after those people who are left out of this system. And the truth is that in recent years, as a result of the economic crisis, as a result of the social cuts that have been driven by the Government of Spain and this Government, as a result of an energy policy that has not been at all reasonable – certainly because of the People's Party and the Socialist Party – and as a result of a multitude of political decisions or as a result of the lack of political decision-making, the truth is that poverty has grown in the last few years in Euskadi. Apart from what has happened in the rest of Spain, poverty has grown in the last few years, poverty in general, child poverty and energy poverty. And that we are late is also an obvious fact, because it turns out that we are leaving behind, apparently, nothing more and nothing less than seven years of crisis, and after these seven years we are still debating how to deal with that energy poverty. That's why I agree with what the counselor said: we're late. Indeed, we are late, because there are thousands of citizens who, despite having a good social protection system, have been cold in their homes during the last winter. And I believe that many things could have been done a few years ago and, of course, during the last few months. There have been parliamentary initiatives by a number of groups influencing this issue. And we do not want to point at us at all, nor to criticize the government because it does. We want this problem to be resolved, resolved as soon as possible, and resolved in a reasonable manner. It is, in fact, the last thing that worries us. And a budget line of EUR 200,000 was signed. And I have no doubt that there may indeed be difficulties in sharing them and in establishing criteria. Right, there are difficulties. Good. But what we opposition groups have to do is try to urge the Government to overcome all these difficulties and, as soon as possible, to articulate this departure and to serve so many thousands of citizens who are suffering so much. And it's late, as I say. We will keep an eye on exactly what is being done; not so much what initiatives are being approved or what transactions are being signed, but what is actually being done. Because Mr. Carro said, "This is a big step," and Mrs. Red said, "It's a turning point." Well, I don't know if signing and approving a transactional amendment of these characteristics is a turning point. We shall see if it is actually implemented and approved as soon as possible. Please make it as soon as possible. Let it be as soon as possible. I believe that Euskadi has sufficient financial resources to deal with this problem. I think it is, I think it can be done. And that's the only thing that moves us, that as soon as possible that departure is articulated, it starts and reaches the citizens who are suffering cold and energy poverty in Euskadi. We are better than in the rest of Spain, yes, but here too there are problems and we have to solve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u49	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Carroll, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Red, I understand your speech if you were born yesterday, or as of 2012, but you cannot talk to me about energy plans, because you have had your responsibility in the governments of Spain, you have not been born yesterday, and, logically, this is an issue that neither in self-consumption nor in the gas bonds..., all that has been pending, and your governments, when you were ruling, have not done so. Lady of the People's Party, let's talk facts. Because what are the priorities of the Government of Spain? It is clear that not the citizens'. The social gas bonus, the European directive, of 2009, is March 2015; it is six years, and it is not yet. They say that it is already, that they have already put it in the amendment, in this new law. Okay, perfect. Let's see if it's true that in the end already... I imagine that, since in November they are general elections, finally the families, both Spanish and Basque, will be able to enjoy the social bonus of gas, and that here we will notice, and a lot. If I also wanted to talk about conciliation today, what I should not have done was postpone the point. As for Basque families, I'm going to keep talking to you about facts. Since 25 February, the Department of Employment, and through the Department of Finance, has already given the City of Vitoria-Gasteiz the money for social emergency aid. On March 26 it has been a month, and there are 1,250 families, Basques, Victorians, who are still waiting to collect that money. Any manager of a city council knows what it can and cannot pay, and those aids could have even advanced them, because he knows that money from the Basque Government is yes or yes. Then that's a mismanagement of your party at the City Hall of Vitoria. And today 1,250 Victorian families are not being able to charge the AES (social emergency aid), where there is also water, electricity, the community..., all those expenses. Then that is the sad reality that we are living in Vitoria with you. Mr. Maneiro, look, as always when something is broken up, it's complicated to realize it, and that's a reality. With this new initiative the third sector agencies, if they have to give aid which is for people who are not part of the social emergency aid, what they logically have to do and what is required of them from the public authorities is that there is a check to see if they receive such aid, and those who do not receive such aid would fall within this line. And that's something... Because, as you have rightly said, and I thank you, we have a good system of social protection, and as we want to continue to have it, what we need is to be able to check that these people do not actually receive such aid. And all that disaggregation costs, and that is why we have established that these lines of collaboration must be generated in order to establish those objectives. And I believe that, without further ado, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u51	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. The discussion is over and we'll go to the vote. Popular party has requested stitches. If there's a problem voting point... ? No. Then we'll vote for the first point of the middle-correction signed by the Basque Socialists, UPyD, and Eubertists. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 51; votes given, 52; in favour 44; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstations, 8.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u52	So the first point is accepted. We'll vote two and three next. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 51; votes given, 52; 5, 52; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions; 0,0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-26.u53	It was unanimously accepted. Since the theme list has run out, the integer meeting has finished. It was eleven o'clock in the morning and twenty-two.
