ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I'm just telling you that 5 and 13 points are left on the theme list for another reason. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, "About the negotiation team members of the U.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.S.S.S.P.S.S.P.S.S.S.S.I.S.A.S.S.A.S.S.S.S. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u1	Good morning, Mr. President. President. Chief physician. In democratic and advanced communities the unions play fundamental roles, and it must be so. The workers have a right to defend their rights, and the public power, and the unions, are the rights to support them. In that sense, they have all the confession of my team. Given, therefore, the fundamental role of trade unions in democratic societies and the legitimate right of workers to demand improvements in working conditions, it would only be possible to debate the adequacy and proportionality of actions for the achievement of legitimate objectives. The trade unions defend the interests of their workers, in the case we are dealing with, the ertzainas, and the Government defend the public interests of the citizens in general. They're both legitimate, but they're not always gonna match. But the demand to the Government is that it defends the general interests and that it manage public services rationally and efficiently, in this case those of citizen security. In the last few weeks we have witnessed an upsurge in protests by the Ertzaintza unions, with serious accusations against you and your department, as well as the lehendakari himself. Charges of absolute lack of will to negotiate on his part. The escalation is coming to the continuous persecution of both the lehendakari and yourself, the slavery in public places, the collapse of the road traffic, and even the use of personal information, which, if serious in any public official, are more so in the case of an ertzaina. The pursuit of legitimate objectives, such as the improvement of working conditions, cannot justify any kind of action, and at this moment I sincerely believe that we are bordering the boundaries. It is true that civil servants are being affected in their working conditions during these already long years of severe crisis, with the reduction of their wages and the increase in their working hours, in most cases by the imposition of the use of basic regulations by the Spanish Government. But it is no less true that these sacrifices are not private to public employees, and more so, in most cases they are far less painful than those of most private sector workers. The criticisms of the Ertzaintza unions are no longer widespread, but absolute. All public security policies are questioned, in what seems to be an excess that is not supported in the data on crimes, security, public presence of the Ertzaintza, etc., but rather in a strategy of pressure to the department. An excess that does not correspond to the general perception that society has and opinion polls reflect on the care and security services that citizens receive from police stations. In the face of this situation, Madam Counsellor, I ask you the following question: What negotiating initiatives has the department had with the Ertzaintza unions throughout 2014? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u2	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. To answer, Mrs. Beltán de Heredia is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. Dakizonez, Iñigo Iturrate jauna, gaur egun Ertzaintzan six syndikatu dauzkagu. And the unions have representation on the Ertzaintza Council and on the union negotiating table, the table called Table 103. They are bodies that are regulated by the Police Act. In 2014, twelve meetings were convened between the council and the table. Twelve meetings attended by trade unions on three occasions, and on those three occasions they did not go beyond item 1 of the agenda. As far as the year goes, we have convened three more meetings, and the answer has been absolute absence of trade unions. Don't sit down, don't propose at the negotiating tables, and protest on the street. And that has been the scene and dynamics of an entire year of union action: banners and concentrations of union delegates in public events and also in institutional places, and a demonstration last Tuesday in Bilbao convened three months in advance. Meanwhile, the Ertzaintza works, and does so within the normality of the service it offers every day, a service well valued by the citizenry. The Ertzaintza continues to consolidate the new structures, and steps are being taken to strengthen the police model that we want today and that we want in the future. And in this model the protest, however legitimate it may be, cannot cancel, cannot replace the union responsibility to propose, negotiate and agree. That is why, from my responsibility, we will continue to convene the negotiating and interlocutory bodies whenever necessary. Borondate hori bera eta jarrera hori bera eskatzen diete eta sindikatuei era. We cannot let go of this opportunity that we have today to consolidate the Ertzaintza of the future. There are many organizational measures that we have taken over this time, measures as important as the new employment relationship, in the spirit that each ERTZAINA has a place in its own right, limiting to the maximum the number of commissions of service. We have just recovered, and the unions have not been in time to agree, the possibility of charging three of the five days on their own affairs and enjoying the other two. We have met each and every one of the commitments for progressive economic improvement set out in the 2011 regulatory agreement. We're paying all travel compensation, locker room, subsistence allowance... all those that regulate the 2011 compensation decree. And the same thing we're doing with the benefits for the ertzainas from the age of fifty-six. But I don't want to hide a reality either. We know how hard it is for public employees to freeze wages these years, and Ertzaintza is not an island, let alone an abandoned island. I regret that union delegates try to convey that image of an Ertzaintza in permanent disagreement, because it is not the reality, because it is not the real image of the work that each and every day the Ertzaintza performs in each of the police stations, in each of the units. In everyday life the Ertzaintza is a permanent exercise of public service and professional responsibility. It is the same responsibility as trade unions, the responsibility to return to the path of negotiation, to the path of dialogue, to the path of debate and to the path of agreement. I insist on this. I would not like this to continue this way, and that is why we are going to put everything on our side. I expect the same responsibility on the part of the unions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u4	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, "about the locomotives made by the Eukotren, who have not been bought and used by the Derivators of the Postmasters of environmental and regional politics of the Los Angelesrs." Ms. Beital, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u5	Thank you and good day to all. We're here to ask the news that we're concerned about the management of public money, and it's because it's about giving information to you. Therefore, knowing what the press has spread, we ask the chief physician: let him explain things as they are, and by means of which we ask his opinion, that he had invested himself in the trains which seem proper to him, when they cannot be used without the rest of the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. To answer, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u7	Good morning, ladies of tables, presidents, chiefs of departments, and members of the legislature. The train machines you're talking about can be used on the Euskal Railway network without any limit. A great or small use is conditioned to the existence of stock traffic, not to the infrastructure. They can adapt and improve substructures for people's traffic, of course. This, on the other hand, is a constant in the improvements of the constitution of this government. But today's form is not determinant to pass trains. As an example, I shall mention, that between Ariz and Kostorbe, two circulation of merchandise has been completed. This is what implies that the entire network which was entirely in the hands of the Basque Rascal Railway, which is operating by the Euskal Railway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Ms. Beital, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u9	Thank you. It's obvious, though you haven't given me much data for I'm not going to have any replications; but, perv, there's nothing to do properly according to the data we have, and it's not possible to say that there are consequences caused by a crisis. We see something else: They show the wrong management. From the start, I'd say, there's been a lot of bumps on my mind about making the goods look at the railway. Let me begin by saying that the object itself is good, but that it cannot adapt to what is desired, but must be the reverse; And there's the wrong thing about it, just as the Jeltmatic Government has done in many other cases, or the misconduct of its position. And even in this case, according to the data which I have at least, the plan was made in 2001, and he had a swelling preview. This, it seems, is also admitted by internal reports, which, though it has not been made for years, yet has been attempted to climb from 1500,000 tons of 90,000 to 2 million tons, and the crisis must have caused something, but the reality proved that it was a very high climb from the start. And after 10 years, he's not only grown up, like he said, but he's down 10%. It is not therefore that previsions have not been fulfilled, but that we are far away. That's for starters, but not alone. In 2006, without updating the five years ago' plan, and without updating the possible demands, the purchase warrant was given, although they could not be used on the railway line without making a number of investments, although the chief physician had said nothing against them. The internal reports say: If jobs aren't done, we haven't used those trains. "And he has not answered me, for he will surely give me the second. They're not used, are they? And if they're not used and the railway investments aren't the problem, the mistake seems to me bigger and bigger. I see in all this a more insignificant management if you can trust me to data. Without knowing about this investment, it's just a matter of risking not a definite plan, nor more than a job term, non-interpretal procedure, working for railway machines, that's all I want to do. And the consequences of it shall be confirmed to us to-day or else: Without using over 22 million investment losss every year, if that's the case. They even bought 42 cars to transport the Bobines. If I'm not mistaken, the ones that can't be used, the other because the coils are asking for a special protection nowadays, and those cars were still unprotected. So I have the impression that the mistakes have been one after another on this subject, and that it has been impossible for you to face the consequences, either in 2006 or now that the use of those railway machines is very limited. You said to me in one question, "It's got one in Katalunia." And in 2007 it was considered interesting again, but if investments don't do, what's interesting is nothing. I think your priorities are elsewhere, on a high-speed train that is so strategic to you, even if the goods won't get them off the road. You'll probably come out again after I'm done again, you'll probably excuse your Christmas activities without giving me a lot of details and instructions. If you do it the way you did the first time, at least you haven't explained much to me, I'll have to look at other ways. But what has become clear to us is one thing: and, moreover, it is a pity that it is not the chief thing to do, even in the management of public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Beital. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u11	Yeah. One of the locomotives in 2011 was rented to the firm at Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat de Catalunya, as I said, for 15,532 euros a month. The number will be updated according to the KPI. In 2014, based on the real state of traffic and the purpose of adapting the park dimension, Eukot sold three locomotives to the railway firm of the Equator for 9,800,000 dollars, including the transportation to the Ektor. At the same time, Eukot's has increased his work. From the beginning of the year 2012, after losing the Siderurgic transport, they were almost entirely excluded to recover the traffic of merchandise. So the traffics for transporting the towel started from Arizza, from Santander to the Kostorbe terminal. During these traffics the locomotive nearly completes the line of Bilbo-Henda, so it shows clearly that the infrastructure doesn't add any limits to it. Also, traffics for transporting the wire pick have been made from Ariz, from Chov, to Laseral terminal, and, according to the predictions, in less than a few minutes, will be taken from Arizza, from Mataporque to Lebarium. So we're working to push the merchandise, and that's how we're going to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of M. Galastegui Oyarzábal, a member of the Social Security Department, in order to avoid adression against the Border, the measures to be taken by the Security Department." Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u13	Thank you, President. Egun where we're supposed to be. Well, counselor. On February 18 (Carnavals of Toulouse), three assaulted agents come to identify several people who were participating in a mass fight. All unions agree on the lack of a special operation, the lack of the necessary material and the lack of support from the department. On February 26 (Vitoria), student protest ended in camp battle. The attackers threw 40 kilos of stones at the agents, and the device consisted of a van with half a dozen agents. And when the incidents begin, reinforcements are incorporated, but the anti-disturbations are late. The official explanation is that there was a high-risk party in Bilbao that afternoon. On 3 March (Vitoria), a group of hooded people burned containers and threw blunt objects at the Ertzaintza agents who guaranteed the safety of those protesters who were demonstrating that afternoon through the city centre. The police station in Vitoria had been strengthened by the possibility of altercations that were common at those times, and the unions continued to denounce, as a counsellor, a lack of security in the development of their work. We, to be clear, have made it clear: we know that the perpetrators of the incidents are the violent ones. They are the ones who cause personal and material damage. But the person responsible for the security in which the ertzainas work is the Basque Government. They are reminded, among other things and among other places, at the gates of this Parliament almost every day, and the answer of the lehendakari is that this attitude offends him, that offends him that way of protesting. That is why we are going to use the parliamentary formula, and we ask you: What measures will the council take to defend the Ertzain and prevent or minimize possible attacks on the Ertzaintza? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning again. Mrs Gallastegui, speaking of security measures, I have to remind you of things that are obvious, as obvious as that all of the inertzainas receive important initial training on police procedures and also on self-protection. Nine months at the academy and a lot of practice in police units. This initial training later, throughout his career, is being incorporated and expanded with refresher courses, with refresher courses, with specialization courses... But the previous analyses that are made before each of the performances, as well as the subsequent analyses after each of the performances, are also very important. Analysis that also covers, as priority elements, the safety of the agents themselves. That is the way Ertzaintza has to work, to plan its actions, always having the resources most suited to the needs of each situation, and that is the usual way of working for professionals who plan and implement interventions, both care and security interventions. Hundreds of interventions a day, by the way. And you know that, however simple it may seem, police interventions are not exempt from a certain risk, often... even sometimes, as I say, difficult to predict. For this reason, it is our duty, the duty of the department and also the duty of the Ertzaintza, and we are doing so, to continue to work on analysis, planning and evaluation to ensure and safeguard the safety of citizens and also of the agents involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u16	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u17	Thank you again, President. He hasn't answered my question. I hope you'll answer me the second time, but... I know it's hard, because sometimes it's very hard, but it's also very positive. It must be recognized from time to time that, if everyone comes in the opposite direction, at best the one who has been wrong has been the one who has changed sense, and not all others, counsel. It is often difficult for this government to see that, when all groups agree in a certain position, the government is perhaps the wrong one, and when all unions share (unions and agents, one by one), they share the same vision and position, in this country of such difficult unanimity, the best one who feels offended is the one who feels offended... You don't have to feel the lehendakari, but the one who protests because he doesn't listen to you and because they don't want to listen to you. The shortcomings in the organisation of the Ertzaintza are also wasting this public service, which must guarantee the safety and security of all of us. What you have designed in an office, your idea of security, does not correspond to the security needs of citizens. Your plans, especially the Horizon Plan 2016, are the best sign of that disconnect between what you imagine should be and what really happens on the streets, as in other public services, counselor. Because in fact – we are repeating it every day – you have a serious problem with everything that is public service, with whom you have to provide those services to people. It happens to the health workers, it happens to the workers of Radio Euskadi, with all the more than 100,000 public employees, with that law they have proposed, and also with the agents of the Ertzaintza. But his Government continues to blame others, and his Horizon 2020 plan has no parliamentary support, no appreciation for the details, not even common sense in how to organize police work. Now you are announcing a series of negotiating meetings, and we are wishing you, Councillor, the same result, a future similar to that of other public proposals. And all for not doing an exercise in trying to understand...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui... Mrs Beltran de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u19	Thank you. Mrs Gallastegui, I will return to the subject of the question, because sometimes we resort to simplistic, very simplistic arguments, especially when referring to actions by the Ertzaintza. Arguments that always lead us to think that the test of cotton has to pass the Ertzaintza. And I quote, for example, the incidents you mentioned, the incidents of Toulouse. If there is no planning, more planning; if there is no resources, more resources; if there is no means, more means. The eternal appeal of the trade union centres, of the trade union rhetoric. And from there we forget the facts and forget the evildoers. And, by focusing on the case of Tolosa that you mentioned, because I think it is a clear example, first, I insist, all the planning, all the interventions are previously planned by Ertzaintza, and in particular the carnival days in Tolosa, as always, also made the proper planning. And among all the incidents that they had to deal with effectively there was this one, the one that we are dealing with today, the one that served as a reference, which originated when a uniformed patrol came to calm a fight, a fight that also came to agents without uniforming. A person outside the fight is the one who assaulted when he recognized one of the un uniformed agents, and there began the assault on the agents. And that minute, that minute, became a minute of media glory for those aggressors, who also had the defachability to give a press conference also denouncing alleged harassment of the Ertzaintza. Once again, the cotton test for Ertzaintza. And I insist, I insist, I have no regrets to recognize that sometimes also from within, from the fabric of union protests, they contribute to putting the media focus on the very particular, the anecdotal, the personal, and in explaining it they forget of very important nuances. Matices like that in the Ertzaintza the usual operation has ways of control, analysis, decision...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u20	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u21	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u22	Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary member of the Esquila Cia Euscal Groups to the president, the project of the Esscal nation of the President." Mrs. Quiroga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u23	Thank you, Madam President. Very good morning. Good morning, lehendakari. I know that for you, lehendakari, this fairy tale about who we are or who we stop being the Basques is a motor that serves you both for a breakup and for a breakup. All day round about who we are. One day the important thing is the right to decide, another day the important thing is a new lace for Euskadi. Earlier this year EH Bildu presented the Basque way, his proposal for a constituent process for the creation of the Basque State. Just two days later, you respond to him with the proposal for a new national pact between Basques that allows us to take a leap in our political status and in the recovery of the original sovereignty of our people. There's nothing! When they have already come up, Mr Erkoreka comes out quickly as a spokesman for the government and says: "But all this within the framework of the self-government presentation that is taking place in Parliament." Every short time that struggle between nationalists is repeated, and the last episode is an act of his party, in which one of his leaders says that the Basque nation is built with facts and not with words. And I, at this point, lehendakari, want to ask you: What facts does your party partner mean? What's that about the Basque nation? And if you believe that this concept of nation for Euskadi is the most appropriate in the times and dynamics the world is going through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. In reply, Mr. President, I'm happy to hear it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u25	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. Mrs. Quiroga, what facts do you mean by my party partner? Well, ask her. He asks me what events the lehendakari intends to materialize the construction of the Basque nation, and I tell him... Look, what my party partner, the president of the territorial executive of the Basque Nationalist Party in Bizkaia, said was "The Basque nation is built on facts, not words," and it is a statement that I fully share. And I tell you, works are love and not good reasons. And I also tell you that words must be accompanied by deeds. The opposite is deception, it's talk and it's opportunism. And for me the constructive facts go first through the defense of self-government for the Basque Autonomous Community, of the Basque Country, contemplated in the Statute of Autonomy of Gernika, go through its updating, and go through its progress in the new European context. And I defend the demand for full compliance with the Statute, in its spirit and in its letter. I defend the uniqueness of our self-government and the cornerstone of Economic Concert. I defend the legal regularization of the Concert, the so-called shielding of the Economic Concert, which you voted against. I defend the thirteen appeals brought before the Constitutional Court in the face of attempts by the Spanish Government to lamination of the Basque Statute. I defend the completion of the Statute, with which you, as a Member of Parliament, should be committed, and which could pass and could begin by facilitating the transfer, such as, for example, the management of concessional motorways, the railway lines in Euskadi, the Wage Guarantee Fund... Already advanced subjects, already convulsed with the Spanish Government and which the People's Party refuses to transfer to Euskadi. For me, national construction is done, and national construction begins by defending the self-government contemplated in the Statute and avoiding lamination, and it is, this fact, synonymous with the construction of the Basque nation, as I say. You presented yourself as a defender of the Basque Statute to the Spanish Government. For here too you have the opportunity to move from words to facts, even though this is not for you to build the Basque nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Quiroga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Look, lehendakari, if what you said here today, about your commitment to self-government, to the development of the Statute of Gernika, to that legal framework that right now gives us that lace in Spain and gives us that lace in Europe – which is where the world is going right now – I agree with you. What I don't understand is why your party, over and over again, sees itself in the need to have to say other things. Because you arrived at this moment I have to ask you: Do you agree with what your party proposes? Because what your party is proposing is starting from self-government to go to another status, and what I think you have to say clearly in this Parliament is what you want for Euskadi, what the future you propose for Euskadi, what the new status means. Because I have read your proposal, I have read what you saw in the obligation to say because EH Bildu was making a proposal for a new Basque nation! What are we staying with, lehendakari? Are you aware of the consequences of the fact that your party and yourself play the game of delay, ambiguity, in something as important as our legal framework? Are you aware of the economic consequences that this may have for new investments? Do you realize that we are at a time when, in the twenty-first century, when all nations are ceding competences, going towards a proposal like you seem to be doing just the weekends, and when we are in an election campaign, it would be going against what is marking the world right now, that is, that assignment of competences, that sharing skills to add, to be bigger, to have greater influence? Lehendakari, I ask you for clarity in this Parliament, I ask you for clarity with the Basques. We, as a People's Party, of course are committed to self-government, to the competences that Euskadi has, to the capacity that Euskadi has. Not to confront and confront Spain continuously and seek that confrontation. We talk about collaboration, we talk about that cohesion among all, from our singularity, of course. But I believe, lehendakari, that from now on what we ask of you is that, and according to what you have said here, do not waste so much time on those new statuses.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u29	Thank you, Mr. President. That is, it turns out that if one defends the self-government contemplated in the Statute of Autonomy of Gernika that is indeed fit in Spain. And then, why their non-compliance by the Spanish Government? Why your failure, Mrs. Quiroga? Look, this Parliament has adopted facts that strengthen Basque self-government, and it has done so as President. The problem is that the Spanish Government's commitment to Euskadi is zero. The Spanish Government has preferred unilaterality in the face of proposals for progress in self-government, and the fact – facts that you claim me to do – is that it does not comply with the Statute, which is an organic law; the fact is that it is re-centralisation and imposition; the fact is that the thirteen appeals before the Constitutional Court are true because there is no dialogue or political will to agree on; the fact is that the promises that the Spanish Government ariare a bonbo and platillo are empty words; the fact is that they do not bet on the Foronda airport, they do not bet on the logistics platform of Arasur, or on Jundiz, they do not bet on the underground of the railway network or on the connection of the high-speed train. You bring many words, and zero facts to development. Zero facts. Look, I repeat that the defense of self-government contained in the Statute and its updating and advancement is to build a Basque nation. For me, building a nation is working day by day to achieve full compliance with the Statute.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interregation, made by the members of the House of Pello Urizar, to the President, on the eucalyptus road." Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u31	Mrs. Chair, thank you. Good morning, everyone. From the crisis of the model which we have been living throughout Europe during the past few years, many basic themes which have been admitted to the decades are now much to be doubted. It is a standard which puts money and interest before men, the most economical power which no one has chosen; it is a standard of democracy that we are to impose upon us; and consequently it is more and more citizens who suffer the measures, political powers, and the greater part of the government submit to them. It is the standard which excludes the welfare of the citizen, which is now in Europe, as it has already been in many other parts of the world. By means of the powers of money, they remove democraticly chosen governments, which tend to the end of the tactics, and have no difficulty in destroying the dignity of persons under the pretext of their macromen, by increasing the distance of the richest and the poor. And that's how the facts reflect. The 80 richest people in the world are the poorest medianity of the half of the inhabitants of the world, and it is precisely the wealth of that half. 80 people have $3,500 million wealth. Shameful. And even in our own country, things are not in the right way, for the difference between the rich and the poor is still increasing here. The richest ten% of society has increased the income (which is 1,1), and, on the other hand, 10% of the poorest, 13%.4%. There are many reasons for this state, no doubt, more than one or more; but what I have just said is, that we are subject to decisions which do not aim at the welfare of our citizens. That we depend on different decisions made in other places, that we don't decide on the basics. And in our opinion, that's what we have to change. We must make decisions, all decisions, have our decisions, we must own ourselves. Every society has a right to determine its future: political, social, and economic future. What sort of people are to be placed in the hands of the population of the country, which is easy to know what object they will look for; it is better to live than to live; it is so simple, but so logical. In the course of recent years, in different nations or nations of Europe, the process of independence is being developed, founded on the will of its population, by the process of democracy. They are not the same processes, at all events, of some and others. Some have not a state-level allowed amongst the nations in the case of the Chinese or Catalunia, for instance, and others have, as in the case of Greece. But in the case of both, the end is the same; to guarantee political and social independence. And however different the circumstances may be, the way each must be made is different, according to its means. The states and roads of Greece, Scotland, and Catalonia are different. And so will ours, different from the Basque Country, the Basque Way. We've got to make the Euscal road to determine what kind of tax policy we want here, the whole policy of tax policy. And the same with job politics, pensions, education, finances, and other social issues. We must make the Euscala our way to determine what sort of society we want, with no external hands, we must decide for ourselves. We can't get out of the way. We must also make the Euscala, in order to establish the relationship between the different regions of the Basque Country, in order to regulate the rhythms and reality of each, according to the will of the population, without interference, and by our decision. And we must also make the Esscal road to establish the relation of the Basque People to the surrounding countries, with naturalness, to the end of what we seek best for all, without attacking anyone, but this is to be decided by us. We don't interfere here, even here, with our decision. Of course, we know the situation in which we begin our journey, and for all processes, disputes, negotiations, and agrees will be the procedure we propose to make our journey. First and inevitably, among the natives and others, but without right. In other processes which have been in the world, we have shown that the process of independence is the most adapted; but to this end all the parts must be the will of sitting and agreeing. And unfortunately, as we're seeing it all over again, it's not like that here, and unfortunately the future doesn't give us much hope in that sense. I wish I were mistaken, but what we have clearly is according to the will of every one, according to the opinion of every one, the future of our people cannot depend on the will of others. The only red line must be the decision of the Basque People. And for that purpose, we must use all the resources we have or have, political, institutional, and social, all! The institutions, too, the president, all the institutions: we must make institutions for the people, for nationalization, and for the State. Don't be afraid of destroying organizations. Don't expand that our purpose is to undo organizations, because the process will not be completed without organization. That's not our proposition. The institutional architecture, is there any doubt about it? Not more than other times in the past 30 years. For the last 30 years, and you know that in this Chamber, there's been a lawal execution of the organizations in question, and you know it's been made by different voices. We don't question the part of the organizations, but if we go to another future, it's obvious that the institutions will have to adapt themselves. Maybe there'll be others, too, and we'll have to decide the role of the others. That's on the white sheet, and we'll all agree and decide. But experience also shows us something else; there is no way for the people to be found behind them, unless there is no society behind them. The institutions will play their part like political agents, but the society, the citizens, the men and women of this country, must act, and we must not be afraid of it. This is not a protagonism problem. It is open to us to overcome the barriers which we meet with respect and respect, and we wish to proceed this way. That's our idea, but we'd like to know about it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u32	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Urizar, in possession of decisions, of self-control, of our fellow euscals, of political independence and social independence... Yes, of course. That's right, when we talk about self-generacy, we're talking about independence, and independent independence is for the good of society and human beings. And I have to tell you that Euskadin is living a new political era, but Euskadi hasn't been born today. And you mention a white sheet, but Euskakia's future isn't on a white page, it won't be written on a white paper. "Esquekadi's paper has many words and lines; it has already been done, and I think it's important to admit it." Look, in that paper, I think, your side, the flammacy of the Eusco, has written a lot of pages, and we're not here today and we won't be in heaven tomorrow. We must build this town day by day. And, yes, the responsibility of society is great, but that of the organization and of the society which is represented is really the most important thing, in order to consider what has hitherto been done. We must walk the road day by day, so that the road to Esscal does not start from zero, and you know it better than you do, Mr. Urizar. I repeat, that's what the Basque Alcharity knows. And you ask me about the president's plans. The wishes and intentions of the President are well known, because they are written: yes, they're written in the election program, yes, they're written in the government program. That's the difference between our projects now: you can read ours, but yours is white paper. I know you have a taste for white paper now, but I'd appreciate you reading it a little for easy. The answer to your question is written, as I said before, in the OK program, in Europe and in the election program, or in the government program, or in the speech of the Inquest, and in the lecture which was introduced in this legislation. So our wishes are written, and we've repeated our plans over and over again, and you know why we've repeated them? Now this new period of our lives, which I have said at first, requires us to have some clearness and clearness in our political reasonings. So this isn't about white paper for me. In this new age, self-organization is a goal to transcend. In this very legislature, the auto-organized community has written many pages, which is, therefore, the scope we have to plan for the proposals of all political forces. Mr Urizar, I defend that we live a new political time in Euskadi, but that we do not start from scratch. It draws my attention to the fact that you are embracing a project that in the month of March 2015 of the 21st century in which we are, comes to tell us that your proposal... in any case, that it should start with a blank paper. At this point, a blank paper? Look, the Basque way you're proposing, is it a blank paper? You and your party, Eusko Alkartasuna, have written many pages in the book of Basque self-government, and I do not understand that you can accept a blank paper. It is not understood by anyone who knows and recognizes the path of Euskadi in self-government (and self-government, buruaren jabe izaza). Self-government..., the vocation of self-government in this people is inveterated, and this vocation has been written, has been institutionalized politically and legally, through its historical rights. The single additional provision of the Statute of Gernika expressly states that the Basque people do not renounce their historical rights. And this is written, Mr. Urizar, it's not a blank paper. This also protects him until the Constitution itself. Euskadi's story is written, it's not blank, Mr. Urizar. The development of the Euskadi Autonomous Community is a clear example of the journey that has taken place, particularly since the adoption of the Gernika Statute. And it is true, and I denounce it whenever it is necessary, it is true that there have been serious breaches and dysfunctions; they are described and written by this very Parliament to which we belong who are present here. And it is also true that the updating of self-government is a pending subject, and that it is a trunk subject of this country. Now, we're not blank. This is a very hard-working subject, very hard-working here and also, as you say, in other political communities in Europe, each from its own reality. No one can think of saying that the future of our self-government is written on a blank paper. Ask yourself in Scotland, or Catalonia, or Flanders, whether your aspirations have manifested them after starting from a blank paper or after starting from a contrasted reality, and you will talk about the new reality of Europe, always taking into account the founding principles, subsidiarity, respect for plurality, the concept of integration. It integrates what exists, and the Basque self-government exists, it is not blank, and you know it as well as I do. As you know him well, I will tell you that I do not understand that you, I insist, and Eusko Alkartasuna embrace a project that assumes the stated objective of insubordination to the institutions. You now join a chain of multilevel ruptures to advance in a process that for me is revolutionary. I do not understand that you and your party, Eusko Alkartasuna, are now advocating acts of disobedience and insubordination to institutional frameworks (you have said it, you said it: "We are going"), including the institutional areas themselves. Including, therefore, the same Parliament or the Basque Government. I do not understand that neither you nor your party, Eusko Alkartasuna, embark on a path that recognizes the uncertainty about the term station. You say it. This, Mr. Urizar, is not the Basque way. This is, I insist, the revolutionary path, an uncertain itinerary, of political and social and economic instability for this country, despite the fact that you claim burujabetza ekonomikoa eta soziala. The author's role is not white, not entirely clean. It's true that our auto-gobber, Mr. Urizar, hasn't had any innovation or update in the past few years. The last essay made to reopen was accepted by the Basque Act in December 2004. This proposal was sent to Congress, where it was introduced, and it is true it was not accepted for the tramital, but, Mr. Urizar, the white paper? You know this proposal well, because you helped write it. It's not a white paper, and I know it well, because I voted for it. This Parliament approved this proposal by an absolute majority. We are not in the blank paper, nor in waiting for arms crossed, nor in the permanent claim. Our proposal, that of the Basque Nationalist group and that of the Basque Nationalist Party, has always been to try again, the construction of the Basque nation on a daily basis. Now, we have to retry it in a new scenario, in a new scenario more favorable, without violence and with the participation of the four Basque political traditions. We now have to re-invent an internal agreement, which will strengthen our approach to the pact. In this new time we have the opportunity to overcome the Basque dispute, with a genuine agreement and integration between the different ideological sensibilities that will allow us to reach a new subsequent pact with the State. We live a new age, yes, and we have a chance of agreeing to a new political pact, but accept the work done, the value of the way we've done it, that we now have solid foundations. You mentioned the procedure, and we started a procedure, it's in writing. The law enforcement team is still at work. Many people have written a great deal to participate in it, and many have been written about it. As the President, therefore, the contribution of this party would be the most satisfactory; that is the way, and the President's intention is to continue to advance on that road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u35	Mrs. head of the table, thank you. I do not think that I have said at any time that the eupscal road begins from zero; I did not say, I did not. It is plain, I think, that I have made it clear, that the present state is accepted, and that the planning is carried on from this present state. I have not spoken of the past; therefore do not speak in my mouth, For I have spoken of the future, And the future is not written. The future is not written. As long as it is not written, whether it be a white sheet, or every one its own proposition, but as it is a will to consent, the way may be the same. If you have taken the white page as a fool to throw away all your arguments, but as long as it is will, what is written must be the will to change, if it is a white page it will be written. We propose to write to each of us that which is written, or which will be written in the future, to agree; Of all parties, of course, there are among the whole members of the Lombards, of course among the institutions; but, above all, it is impossible, without them, to penetrate into civil society. No, Mr. President de l'Ajuda, the President of the High President de l'EA, who had made or now made the change in this room, had made it clear that in this chamber, for a long while past, the democratic confessional would inevitably come if Madrid refused to accept the rights of the Basque Country. Of course, it was a long time ago when democratic, without violence, was acceptable when it was planned, and now there is no violence, then we must look for other excuses. And revolutionary, revolutionary, I tell you, you said revolucionary, I had to ask one of my neighbour how the translation was, because the revolutionary is not the term I use in everyday life. It would be revolutionary if EAJ should ever be ready to burn all his ships for this people. That would be revolutionary. President, EAJ and you know that the only option of this people is to make the way of agreeing, to make the same way that internal agreements encourage us. For months now you've been letting your knuckles knock on the Monclo gates, and you yourself said the answer when they asked you the previous question, always the eternal answer: No, no, that's the answer. But there you are, waiting for hope from Madrid. And if there's a new hope that a possible change in Madrid government will open the gates, I wouldn't open all doors to that hope. PP's and PSOE's will is apparent. They've made it clear, too, that Ramon Jáuregui made it clear in the group of auto-gobbers in the final scene: "No change." That's for sure. And if it is the change of Poseidon, it is still unknown what can come from them. You make a landmark on the relations to the state: diversity. But the other side of the table do not regard it as valuable, because it may be treated as an entity of the same rank, and they will never admit it. President, the political cycle begun in 1978 is almost over. It was a cycle based on the wrong model, and it is filled with the moth-eatenness of corruption. The hour has come to make our own example and our own path, as others say. Let's get on with it, but really. You can't stop in the fields of Foronda in the empty words thrown on Party Day. Basque society is expected, and we'll do it ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u36	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u37	Chief of Parliament. Mr. Urizar, you mentioned the white page during your first involvement. And now you've mentioned the white sheet looking into the future, looking into the future. I'm glad you didn't look back. You've only looked back at your second involvement, and the House of Times mentioned the President and began the cycle with the Upper House. The cycle began with the old house. And you mentioned the agreement, yes, the internal agreement. I won't come in whether I'm knocking or not, you know when I've been around with the President of Spain and I haven't had any conversation with him since, and I have no intention of knocking. But you mentioned the agreement and agreed to it. We have a purpose for agreement. We have a choice for consent, and we know that this agreement is indispensable. It is for me as well as the key to the future and the future. But this agreement must be cultivated, it is necessary to build bridges, to know what has been done, to accept and acknowledge the work given to many and many persons in the past. Mr Urizar, the presentation of self-government has been born in this Parliament with the challenge of making a constructive and shared diagnosis of the development of Basque self-government so far, but I also believe that it is looking to the future. I believe that it was born – or at least that is my wish – with the aspiration to be able to foster as much political consensus as possible, and a consensus to which you appeal, based on dialogue. And the only thing that is not written is the result of this presentation, indeed. Its resolutions will have to give rise to my understanding that concrete proposals and texts are needed. And our political objective advocates the need for an agreement, an agreement that you yourself claim, to include among the different political sensibilities of the country. A shared agreement, negotiated in the competent institutions, which is subject to the approval of Basque citizenship and which is respected. And this agreement needs the participation, if possible, of all and all. To participate means to sit down, to present our own proposals, to assume that we do not all think the same, to accept that negotiating is to give in, and to give in is necessary in order to be able to reach agreements. The easy thing is to get up from the chair, tear your clothes and say that nothing is possible. The easy thing is to pretend to start from scratch each time. The easy thing is not to say once a year in the Foronda camps, let's say, one thing, no; the easy thing is to say that we leave, and stay. The easy thing is to say that we insubordinate ourselves, but we keep ourselves in institutions. The easy thing is to criticize trying to reach agreements with the Spanish Government, and to have a representation in the General Courts of the Spanish State (for what?)). "La que este país necesita en este nuevo tibi tempo es nos sentemos, que cedamos y que acuremos." So we want to share a commitment from the beginning of the route. We wish to share that it is a people whose right and power are to respect the will which declares democraticly to be consulting for the decision of our futures. We plan a political purpose, a compact shared, developed, and enriched by political parties, which will be transmitted before the institutions, and an agreement accepted by the Basques. There is therefore a need for a new political pact that reflects the free will of Basque society expressed in a democratic way and represented in this House. We need an agreement, a pact; an agreement within Basque society, an agreement based on a new project for the future for the global Euskadi that contemplates the keys to a socially legitimated self-government. Self-government, internationalization, participation, in an internal agreement that strengthens us to propose a new pact with the State. A pact with the State, this is a procedure that connects with our foral tradition, on which we have built our two statutory experiences. The history of Basque self-government is written. Our self-government contains an express reservation of historical rights and their possible updating. The key concept in a vision of the future is the development of our self-government; it is about claiming our organic development as a nation. It is written, and would mean updating self-government, moving forward in terms of greater sovereignty, validating the right to be consulted on our true political vertebration, respecting established democratic procedures. This is my approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpologising, made by the members of the American police at the ARRA QuiRANGA Cia Euspula team to the president, to aid his families in the most beautiful ways." Mrs. Quiroga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Very good morning again. I was presenting this question to the Lehendakari – I think the Councillor is going to answer me – a question in relation to an announcement made by this Government in a matter that we think is important. As I say to you, an announcement by which the Government is going to amend the decree by which birth aid is distributed, which is contained in Law 13/2008 on Family Support. I would like to place in its context the adoption of this law of support for the family, because it was my turn to debate at that time, because it has been a law worked out; that at least in the case of the People's Party the support for this law was not the result of the fashion of that moment or of the trends of that moment, but because we believed that it affected one of the most important problems facing the Basque Country, Euskadi, one of the structural problems that we face, with estimates that in the coming years – there are some studies that place it in the next ten years – the population of the Basque Country will age up to terms that place 25% of the Basque population will be over sixty-five years old. Today, Mr Councillor, the number of people over the age of sixty-five is already higher than the number under the age of twenty, and birth data, unless you tell me otherwise, from the last few years indicate a gradual decline. As I say to you, that law at the time had a clear objective. The clear objective was to focus on one of the structural problems facing the Basque Country, which is its ageing, its gradual ageing, with the consequences that this has for the future of our land. Basically, that we become a society of retirees, a society that has fewer and fewer active people working and, therefore, creating the resources necessary to maintain the quality of life that I believe we are proud of all Basques and that we are willing to preserve in our society. Well, as I say to you, this law established a series of aids that were aimed at that encouragement, at that attempt that those couples who wished to have several children could do so, and that the economic issue was not, at least in principle, one of the conditions that led them to limit that decision. In this regard, child birth grants were approved. Some help that at that time was revolutionary – let me express it – because, beyond that baby check that was approved in Zapatero's time, this was a continued help for different years, up to seven years; in the case of large families they increased, in the case of people with children with disabilities they were also generous... I believe that in that sense they were aids that really marked a before and after in family policies. A series of measures to help reconcile family and working life were also articulated in this regard. Another aid that has also been announced to us is that it will not have sufficient resources, because I believe that at this point in time what I do know is that there is a clear strategy on the part of this Government to discourage women who want to apply for this aid, because they know that they are not going to receive it this year and that we will see if they receive it the following year. As I say to you, in the same speech in which you, Mr Councillor, announced that there were not sufficient resources for conciliation aid, you also announced that you would change the criteria for the award of child aid. And we are told that instead of having a universal character they will now be based on income. Which means a setback, because I don't know what numbers you'll have made, but that's a setback. It is a setback that goes against the spirit of the Family Support Act, because among its principles, the principles that inspire this law, is that of universality. And it is no accident that this principle appears. If this principle appears, it is because the objective of this law, in addition to focusing on one of the structural problems we have in the Basque Country, was to do so by the hand of Europe. That is to say, being aware that we are part of Europe, that we have to go in the same direction, and that Euskadi followed the path marked by Europe with those 2020 objectives, which also affect family policies and are being implemented in the rest of the countries and which, of course, do not go in the direction that the Basque Government is proposing to us, which is a step backwards, but that it is becoming ever wider and with greater effort on the part of the countries. The argument that has been given to us over and over again by the government – and not only by the government, but also when in this Parliament the parliamentary group that supports the government has come out in the wake of these demonstrations – the argument that we are being given is that a process of reflection has begun. That is to say, from what we see, that you understand that these aids have not had the desired effect or that they were being sought and that they are therefore opening up a process of reflection. And let me tell you here that it is rare this way of acting that the government has, because one understands that one opens a process of reflection and then takes action, but here you take action and then you tell us that you are immersed in a process of reflection. And I think this is the time to know exactly why you are taking these measures, what are the numbers, what are the data, what family policy this government wants to develop. Because now what we are seeing are cuts, now what we are seeing is an immediacy that you need to cut, that you need to adjust the budget, and you have found an easy part, a part that is also not assuming you in principle, so you have to calculate, an excessive social mobilization, but that, quite the contrary, will have an impact on the future of this land, on the society that we are going to have in the near future. We are talking about some studies that fix photographs of what the data are in 2015. That is why I want to ask you, Mr. Counsellor, what reflections you are making. These cuts are the fruits of what reflections on family policy? Are these reflections based on numbers, on what policies? What are your references to making these decisions? Because I think we deserve an explanation beyond that canteen that we have heard from the government once in a while, that they are immersed in a reflection, and that that reflection makes them make those decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. In reply, Mr. Toña has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u41	The chairman of the board, the President, the congressman, the chief officers, good morning. Mrs Quiroga, you refer to Law 13/2008 on Family Support, and yet your speech is framed in a broader context, which has to do with the aging of our population and the low birth rates we have, which we cannot discuss anyone else. And I think we have to distinguish the two planes: a concrete law, from a comprehensive family birth policy that we must develop and that, as you say, we are in full strategic debate, strategic reflection, and in which I also hope we can agree. But the decree to which I have to refer at this time, on standardized income, which we have drawn up and which we hope to be able to adopt at the next Governing Council on Tuesday, does not eliminate the universal nature of aid, Mrs Quiroga. Don't suppress it. No one is going to lose the right to receive help by son or daughter! The Family Support Act recognizes support for sons and daughters (the one you approved, Mrs Quiroga) as a subjective right, not subject to budget availability, which reaches the entire Basque citizenship. And the only way to change that condition would be by changing the law. We do not come to change the law; we are simply developing a forecast of that law. Two concepts must be clearly distinguished. On the one hand, policies to assist families, including financial support for children and reconciliation, on the other. And on the other hand, birth promotion policies, as I told you before. The former, the aids, are only part of the latter. Moreover, one part I would say discreetly, that in its current formulation our economic benefits certainly help families, help, but are not crucial in their decision to have more sons and daughters. They have not been crucial in your or mine decision, in the decision to have the children we have had. Focusing first on birth policies, low birth rates are the result of complex social, cultural and economic changes, which affect all the countries in our environment with different nuances, and it is true that they affect us more. The policies for birth support cover practically not only the entire work of our Basque Government, but also that of the other institutions, as well as those of the social actors who influence the conditions and ways of life of our families, especially economic, labour and cultural. Anything that has an impact on the promotion of quality employment falls under family policy. All that concerns equal access for women to all areas of activity is the responsibility of family policies. The education system, the provision of health care, the existence or not of day-care centers, the working hours that facilitate reconciliation... And that's not always our competition. Aid for conciliation, public transport, social environments, urban environments... everything has an impact on the decision of our couples to have children and how many and how many. Not only can all of us, and fundamentally not all of us, do enough for this. As already announced by the Department of Employment and Social Policy, we are immersed in this process of reflection to which you have referred – and I assure you, Mrs Quiroga, that we are doing so with serenity and depth – on what is the most appropriate strategy for Euskadi in this matter, taking into account our real conditions and possibilities, taking into account our context. And that has not prevented us – and now I focus more on the law – from doing a review of the aid in force under Law 13/2008. The first thing I would like to point out is that, with regard to both the new decree supporting families with dependent children and the amendment of the decree on support for family and work conciliation, we are trying to respond precisely to the provision of article 6 of the Act itself. We're not inventing anything new, nor are we changing anything. The current law provides for the need to establish systems of standardization (as the law says) of family income, which allow for a more equitable treatment of the different types and situations of family, and which will apply to economic aid or support services to families, where the economic level of family unit income acts either as a condition of access, or as a criterion for determining the amount of the benefit or the amount of the economic participation in the payment of the service. These systems of standardization of family income consist – and within a little bit of detail – of equivalence systems that try to weigh the income, the classic income, which we understand as the tax base of our taxes, of our declaration of the income tax of natural persons, not only according to the number of members of the family unit, but also introducing the composition of this unit, starting from considering that the same level of income does not always offer the same economic capacity for the different situation of families in terms of purchasing power, to family units that have different compositions. How have we addressed this process? Firstly, by favouring lower incomes, by increasing their aid, and by reducing aids to higher incomes. Why did we do this? Because there is a very important issue, and it is that in lower incomes, no matter how little we help them, at least we help to combat a fundamental issue of our system, which is child poverty. We have looked at the joint effect of conciliation aid and child aid, so that the final result is neutral for budgetary purposes for the department. I know that's hard to say. I too would like this budget to be higher, but we have to count on what we have. In conciliation aid, which is not a subjective right, standardized income affects by generating a threshold below which the amounts are equal to the current ones. Above that threshold they will drop slightly, it is true, but the eligible situations are extended from eight to twelve years, as is the number of eligible days, in some cases even doubled. Family support for children is currently available until the age of seven (a birth support plus six years, a total of seven annuities). In the case of support for families by sons and daughters, which is a subjective right, the amendment affects the following way. First, at present, between €400 and €900 are received for the first son and daughter, depending on the income (here a fairer distribution criterion applies, but from here on out); for the second son or daughter there are €1,100 per birth and €400 at the end of the year, regardless of the income; for the third and subsequent, five annuities of €1,100 and two of €400. In total, during the child's six years of life, 6,300 euros. The new decree that we are preparing, and that we will present next week, provides for the first child as now, between 400 and 900 euros, depending on income. For the second child, below 20,000 euros of standardized family income, which is not the same as the tax base of our income tax, 900 euros at birth and 900 at the end of the year (i.e. 300 euros more; I know it is not much, but for some it is something); between 20,000 and 30,000 euros of standardized income, 500 euros at birth and 500 euros at the end of the year (i.e. 500 euros less); for those with a standardized income of more than 30,000 – and we can explain more or less what are the equivalences between standardized income and taxable base –, 400 euros at birth and 400 euros at the end of the year (i.e. 700 euros less). For the third and subsequent child, less than EUR 20,000 of standardized income, EUR 900 per year each year (i.e. the maximum, EUR 6,300 during the first six years of the child's life; it is the same amount as at present); between EUR 20,000 and EUR 30,000, EUR 500 per year (EUR 600 less); for those who exceed EUR 30,000 of standardized income, EUR 400 (i.e. EUR 700 less). In short, being the department's effort equal to or similar to the current one, it favors the second child and the lowest income compared to the highest income. At this time, not so much to make us have more children, that it would not be bad at all, but simply to combat such fundamental issues as child poverty among those with lower incomes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u42	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Quiroga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u43	Thank you, Madam President. I, Mr. Counsellor, still do not understand what is the reason for this change of opinion. But the first thing I would like to do is refer to the standardization income, because here we are making a very particular use of this concept. This is reflected in the law itself, it is true, but it was used to avoid discrimination, especially in large families, that when paying taxes an income was used that did not come out or was not reflected in the fact that a family had one, three or five children. That is why this concept is articulated, which is that of the income of standardization. But not to cut back on help. It is that, as I understand it, they are now using this concept to cut this aid, because what they want is to face child poverty. In other words, they use the Family Support Act from their department to address child poverty. And don't you think that would be better to approach it from income guarantee income? Don't you think that there could be better those pockets of poverty to which you referred? It's just that I haven't heard you yet, counselor, data, arguments that really make us understand why you make this decision, beyond what I was telling you, about a budget matter, that the numbers don't give you and that you have to cut it somewhere. But then they say quite clearly that this government has stopped betting on family support policies in the same way that has been done so far! That it wasn't done with care, no. It was a right contained in a law, and the laws are to be enforced. And if it is not to be fulfilled in those terms, because it is considered to have to be otherwise, I believe that the most honest and responsible thing would be to come to this Parliament and change that law. Because that speech of yours fifteen years ago I heard it in this Parliament, but in fifteen years family policies have evolved, counselor. This that all the policies of a government are aimed at supporting the family... Of course I do. That they're transversal? Of course I do. But this law was passed to go one step further. Because the modern at the moment is precisely where all family support policies are being set, which are being established in Europe, which is why we were discussing family support policies here, and that is why the law was passed in 2008. But you are bringing us back to debates fifteen years ago, and you tell me that to see if I believe that there are families who are considering having one more child because of the support given to me by the Basque Government. Listen, then eliminate them all, remove the aid. I just don't get it, it doesn't give us any data yet... First, has the situation in Euskadi changed? Do we have better birth rates? No, no, Good. Do we need that second, that third son? Yeah. What reflections are you making? But don't you think it would be more honest if, before you make that decision to cut back, you wait for that reflection, the consequences or what you think is the new family policy of the Basque Government and then make the decisions? It's just that I can't believe that it's just about an economic, budget issue, when you know that you have other items and other issues that you could really cut into, and that in something so important... Because, I repeat again, it is not an ideological problem; it is a country problem, it is a structural problem. What are we building? And I honestly don't see them with a family support policy. I see them trying to drain the envelope into a situation of financial insufficiency, in which more resources are actually needed, and which have gone to the easiest. But they have gone to the easiest and at the same time they have gone to the weakest part, in which we play the most in Euskadi. And I believe, Mr President-in-Office, that this government should reconsider that decision to change family aid.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Quiroga. Mr. Toña, it's yours to answer the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u45	We do not cut, Mrs Quiroga, but we start from a principle of reality, from an approved budget. We redistribute in favor of those who have less income. And we do not give up what you ask us to do for a genuine policy of support for the family and for birth, and we have to do it together, regardless of whether we have to lead it from the government. But you, Mrs Quiroga, and other media in recent weeks have seen news and comments about whether or not we favour or harm middle income. I am not going to explain what I mean by high, medium and low incomes, and where the boundary between them is, because this is an impossible debate. I'm just going to point out what a standardized income is. The concept of standardized income is not family income; it is an indicator that, in addition to such income, takes into account other factors, such as family unit members and their situation. And, in this way, the threshold of 20,000 euros of standardized income for a family made up of fathers, mothers and two sons or daughters without disabilities or other circumstances is equivalent to a family income of 42,000 euros, or 47,000 in the case of employed persons. It's not 20,000, it's 42,000 or 47,000. And the threshold of 30,000 euros of standardized income corresponds to family income of 63,000 or 68,000 euros, depending on whether they are employed or not (we are talking about another level of income; we are not talking about 30,000, but double). If the family is single-parent and with two sons or daughters, the equivalent would be 38,000 euros and 57,000 euros. Therefore, the incomes that will receive less than they currently receive are those that are above 42,000, 48,000 or 60,000 euros. Everyone else benefits. The whole citizenship, the majority of Basque citizens, benefits. The forecast of the economic memory of the decree has calculated that 55% of the first child's aid, which is now subject to rent, would be in a similar situation to the current one. In the case of the second child, more than 65 % would benefit from an additional EUR 300 over what they currently receive. And in the case of the third sons and daughters and following, slightly more than 75% of our families will receive the maximum of what is envisaged in the current decree. What we do is provided for in the law. We do not limit universal rights; we put in place a system of distribution that we believe, with all the prudence that we have to have on these issues, which can also be questionable, but that we have an obligation to make decisions (we have it as a government)... It seems fairer to us. I gather your criticisms, but it is up to us to develop the decrees, and we do so with all the kindness with which we can do so, because aid increases to those who have less resources to the detriment of those who have more resources. And I hope that Parliament will soon have a genuine debate on family and birth policies, which you want and so will we. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u46	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the president as a visitor to the President of the President, the President of the House of Representatives. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u47	Good morning. Thank you, President. Lehendakari, members of the Government, good morning. The media moved, in connection with Etxerat's visit, which was an unprecedented encounter. The lehendakari, Iñigo Urkullu, and the association of family members of ETA Etxerat prisoners shared table and diagnosis on the need to end the dispersion policy, a common challenge on what they will work on in the coming months. The Government's note spoke... from the Government referred to possible areas of work that deepened the normalized coexistence in Euskadi with Etxerat. Amazing. All indications are that there was no demand on the part of the Government for family members of the age groups to proceed to the dissolution of the gang and to cooperate with the justice system in the clarification of unsolved crimes, a conviction of ETA crimes. In view of the holding of this lengthy meeting, we ask Mr Lehendakari to answer the following question: In what areas will the Basque Government work with the association of relatives of ETA Etxerat prisoners and prisoners? Possible areas of work... What are they?, criticizing the Government of Spain, criticizing Prison Institutions? What do you share with Etxerat, Mr. Lehendakari? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u48	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, Etxerat is a legal association, which brings together relatives of Basque prisoners and prisoners. He requested an interview to present his 2014 report, and the content of the meeting focused on the humanitarian problem that the prison policy of removal provokes to family members; people who have not committed any crime, family members. The removal of prisoners results in unjust and unnecessary suffering for families, which also does not correspond to the spirit or the letter of the law. You make reference to the meeting. For at the meeting we agree on the need to identify, yes, areas of work that will allow to deepen the normalized coexistence. And the relationship framework proposed by the Basque Government... And I distinguish, and we distinguish perfectly within the Government, the nature of who our interlocutors are in any case, and, therefore, to know what the content of the meeting should be, whether public or private. And the framework of relationship, I insist, proposed by the Basque Government is contained in the initiatives of the Peace and Co-existence Plan, and more specifically in the programmes Hitzeman and Zuzen Bidean, which we delivered and made available at the meeting, as well as the encounters between victims and victims and between victims and victims. Look, I share Mandela's words, which in his context, taken in his context too, I would summarize in saying "The most powerful weapon is talking to people. The most powerful tool is to talk to people." We are committed to peace and coexistence, and can only be achieved if we are able to approach, speak, understand. This is the responsibility of a government and it is the duty of a ruler. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u51	Look, Mr. Urkullu, your Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence, what's going on, from ETA prisoners? Wasn't it to delegitimize ETA's violence and terrorism exactly? Look, I meet Etxerat, who on his website continues to justify ETA's progress. You, two positive things: understand your suffering, and criticize the prison dispersion (the mantra, the permanent sambenite). For me, two negatives: he did not ask those people to promote the dissolution of ETA; he did not ask for the condemnation of the crimes produced by ETA. There's no right, Mr. Lehendakari. Its secretariat is a pure political retreat, everything revolves around the same thing. All for you and Mr Fernández to oppose the central government. Etxerat, your budget lines, your connivance... obsession with you and Mr. Fernández's secretary. Change the name and orientation. Say "secretary of prisoners and conflicts." That's your road map. Living together? No, no, Your own convenience, and political coexistence with the world of the left abertzale, yours, that's what you want. Their comfort, in those political keys that PNV and Bildu share today. Today they agree in this House. That's coexistence, that's your convenience, Mr. lehendakari. Our convenience, our coexistence, cannot be that of Jonan Fernández and that of the ETB and that of the secretariat of memorylessness and equidistance. You spoke before pending transfers. His must be that of illusion and coexistence, and not that of assignment and oblivion in the face of permanent abertzale radicality. What about the victims, Mr. Lehendakari? You haven't met them in two years and I think you're lehendakari! Look, the other day the Catalan victims said they were outraged by Urkullu's reception at Etxerat. They said it in public, and it's true. And they talked about it. They were talking about the stupidity that caused them their attitude on these issues, Mr Lehendakari. What do you have to bring to coexistence, Mr. lehendakari, Etxerat? What does Díez Usabiaga have to contribute to the coexistence with which his secretary of memory meets? In other words, your Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence goes from ETA prisoners, Mr. lehendakari. Didn't he have to go and delegitimate ETA exactly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u52	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Barrio, have you really read the Peace and Coexistence Plan? Have you really read the Hitzeman plan? Have you really read the Zuzen Bidean plan? Have you read all the initiatives of the Peace and Co-existence Plan, each of the eighteen initiatives? Look, 10 December last year, Universal Declaration of Human Rights, René Cassin Prize. Did the People's Party in Lehendakaritza assist in the award of the victims-victim dialogue? Did the People's Party attend? You announce on March 24, next March 24, the presence of the President of the Spanish Government to put the plaque, or the first stone of the memorial center of the victims. Does the Basque Government participate in the memorial centre of the victims, the Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence, in the memorial centre of the victims? What do we do? What is the General Secretariat for Peace and Co-existence, or the Basque Government and the Lehendakaritza? Look, the Santos government is working for the peace process, a process of dialogue with the FARC, Mr Barrio. "It's good for Colombia and for the whole world. I will give political support and help in everything that is asked of me in any international organization." End of date. Do you know who the date is? Yes, you know perfectly well, you have guessed: no more or less than the Spanish President, Mr Mariano Rajoy. For Colombia political support and help, because it is good for the whole world. Now, for Euskadi, no dialogue, no support, no help. An incomprehensible irresponsibility, Mr. Barrio. Look, to clear the prisoners, the prison policy punishes the families of the prisoners. And I'd like to suggest that you also unite with the task of ending it. I think it would be a great step to live with you, too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Group of Laura Garrido Knörr with regard to the president's criteria for the elections of Osa. " Mrs Garrido is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u55	Thank you, Mr. President, President, chief physician. Well, it's clear that this government is prioritizing partisan criteria in Osakidetza's selection processes. This is attested to by a number of recent court decisions. The judgement of the Court of Dispute-Administrative Number 6 of Bilbao has annulled the appointment of the former Inclán councillor as head of Internal Medicine of Cruces for irregularities in the process. The Vitoria Dispute-Administrative Court speaks clearly of abuse of power when the candidate who had obtained the highest score for the position of Chief of Dermatology Service of the University Hospital of Álava was not appointed. It is clear that the principles inherent in a selection process are being violated. That's why we're asking you, Mr. Lehendakari... I don't know if you're going to answer the question. It would have been convenient for you to have answered it, but I imagine it will be the health counselor then who will answer it. And we ask him if he will continue to take precedence over party requirements in the selection of positions in Osakidetza, violating, as he said, clearly principles inherent in a selection process.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u56	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressman, Mr. President, good morning to all of you. Garrido andrea, from the Department of Health (not Health), for the competitions of provision of the chiefdoms of Osakidetza, as is normal, when any seeker understands that the principles for which they must be governed are not complied with, it is lawful to resort to the judicial process. This means, Mrs Garrido, that in the case of the leaderships you mentioned, as in any of the others that have taken place in this legislature and the previous ones, the supply systems operate and have all the legal guarantees inherent in any selection process in the public administration. The post of half-class members of the board, based on the principle of publicity, of equality, of merit, and of ability, guarantee the trial of competition. And if any candidate thinks he has broken one or the other of these principles, he can make use of all the legitimate methods which are natural to any process of election. I don't know whether you did it on purpose or whether it was ignorance, but half of it is wrong. I want to understand that the errors that have resulted in the justification of the question, as they have been written, are due to precipitation and are not intentional. The former Health Advisor, to which you have referred, is currently a doctor at OSI Ezkerralde-Enkarterri-Cruces, a highly trained professional, as recognized by his colleagues, committed and honest, Mrs. Garrido, who has not been appointed head of internal medicine service, but as a result of a competition was appointed head of section in his own service. A contest, like all those of Osakidetza, subject to the principles of publicity, equality, capacity and merit. Needless to say, a section chiefship is no office, an intermediate command, in this case the University Hospital of Cruces. Precisely one of the 151 service chiefs and section of which the hospital has, where there are only three section chiefs in the Internal Medicine Service, all of them in the unit of its head of service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u58	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u59	Yes, we would have liked the lehendakari to have answered this question, because we do not know if they are isolated cases, if they are two recent judicial decisions, or if we are going to go... I say we would have liked the lehendakari to have answered us because of whether we are going to know a drip of judicial decisions pointing in this direction, in the direction that partisan interests prevail in the selection processes of Osakidetza. Look, Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Lehendakari, to whom the question was addressed, it is clear that irregularities, interferences, have been committed in both selection processes. In the case of the appointment of the former Inclán councillor, if we read the judgment, which I imagine you will also have read it, there is a clear talk of irregularities in the composition of the court, in the criteria for barring merits, in the insufficient motivation for the evaluation of Mr Inclán's project. And the court concludes by declaring the award not legally appropriate, and clearly stating that the principles of transparency and publicity have been violated. That's what the sentence says. Actually, it's not firm, but that's what the sentence says. In the case of the head of the Dermatology Department of the University Hospital of Álava, it is clear that a selection process has been manipulated in order not to go beyond the final phase. The sentence here is meridianly clear: it speaks of abuse of power, and it says clearly and forcefully "What is known is that what was really meant was not to finish the process and name the person who had selected for the highest score, the best merits." You manipulated and made a clear interference at the end of this selection process so as not to name the person who had obtained the highest score. The sentence clearly speaks of abuse of power. We conclude, therefore, by saying that we are faced with clear intrusions into the selection processes, behind which political interests are being hidden. And they have been put forward, and it has to be said clearly, because it is seen in these selection processes, in these specific appointments (in a clear case not appointing the person who had obtained the highest score), that they have put personal interests and political criteria before ability and professionalism. We do not doubt the professionalism of Mr Inclán, of any aspirant, but it is a question of choosing the person to whom by right he belongs because he has obtained the highest merits and the highest score, and it seems that in these cases, according to the judicial decisions that we have at the moment, that has not been so. We have to tell him that such actions cannot be repeated, and we call for a clear correction and reparation for the injustices that have been committed. Because it is clear that injustices have been committed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u60	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u61	Garrido andrea, I'm going to explain the situation to you again. Because I understand you've read both sentences, right? For then you will have fully understood that they are contradictory, and that if the criteria of selection of the Court of Internal Medicine had been applied to that of Dermatology, it would also have been annulled. And you know that the two are in the process of appeal; therefore, neither is firm. Look, on March 5, the court responsible for the head of the Internal Medicine section already made public that it had requested the appeal of the judgment, which – I understand you have read – recognizes only errors of administrative procedure. With regard to the defects in the composition of the members of the court, the judgment in question only notes that there was no member of the VATP; that there was no member of Dermatology either; and, however, the judge does not recognize defects in the composition of the court. And on the other hand, as will be noted in the appeal, they have never participated in the clinical chiefdom courts of Osakidetza. Look, to say what you have said reveals either an important lack of rigour or a clear lack of knowledge of the procedures for appointing chieftains in Osakidetza. You're talking about recidivism. Look, this legislature has held 64 competitions like this (64), and we see nothing extraordinary...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u62	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Thank you. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary laws of the Gaspe Sémper Pacal Group, made to the head of the Administration and Justice of the People, concerning the pressure of the Spanish Government in the Judiciary Power." Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u63	Egun where you're going. Mr Lehendakari, councillors, ladies and gentlemen. Someone might ask for benevolence for the spokesman of a government that accumulates problems. When someone has to be a spokesman for an executive who has to throw balls out continuously, because (we all have our little heart, Mr Erkoreka), especially from this bench someone would ask for that benevolence. But, well, we all have our little heart. I mean, Epsilon-Hiriko, Miguel case, Kutxabank, cuts, EITB problems, Ertzaintza conflicts... Someone might ask for benevolence for a spokesman who has to face such problems every time he appears. And someone, the fruit of that benevolence, could also say, "Well, this spokesman, every time he comes out, has to throw balloons out, and put his finger in the eye to create conflicts with other administrations or with other governments to divert attention." I am benevolent, but here we are to overcome that benevolence and to talk about politics, Mr Erkoreka. Why do you constantly strive to put your finger in the eye of the Executive, the Government of Spain? Why are you permanently more a parliamentary spokesman for the opposition than a government spokesman? Do you not believe, Mr Erkoreka, that we must seek understanding before permanently seeking confrontation? Why now, with the execution of a judicial decision imprisoning a terrorist for the crimes committed in Spain, for the serious crimes committed in Spain, for giving account to the justice system, the Basque Government gets angry and puts its finger in the eye accusing the Spanish Government of pressuring the judges? Don't you think that we also have to overcome that dialectic and that way of relating to each other and to governments? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u64	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Goenaga..., I'm sorry, Mr. Semper (I had this to divert attention...), look, it's not the same thing to question the rule of law than to criticize everything that prevents its proper functioning. I have never questioned the rule of law, never, nor will I, either, because I believe it is one of the great achievements of the democratic state in its battle against authoritarianism of the Old Regime. However, I believe that we are all morally obliged to denounce, demonstrate and criticize, if necessary, all those attitudes, those conducts which are detrimental to the proper functioning of the rule of law, which disrupt judicial independence or which violate fundamental rights and general principles. All this I believe we are morally obliged to do. At the beginning of this year, in this task, in this commitment to denounce everything that is detrimental to what is wrong with the rule of law, I have had many fellow travellers. Because, in just a few weeks, three judges of the First Section of the National High Court and thirteen of the eighteen judges who make up the Second Chamber of the Supreme Court, the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court, have, in a matter of weeks, applied to the General Council of the Judiciary for protection from these interferences, to such interferences caused by statements by members of the Government, which they considered disrupting their independence. The same ones I referred to, taking as a reason and as a reference precisely the very statements of the judges themselves. That is not what Erkoreka or this government spokesman says; that is what the judges themselves are saying. Something unprecedented, unprecedented: three judges of the First Section of the National Court, and thirteen of the eighteen members of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court. Look, it's just that important things have been said! It will seem irrelevant to you, but nothing less than a minister of your majesty's government comes to say, "If that had been done by a political or administrative authority, perhaps at the moment he would be accused of a possible crime of prevarication." A minister says so. Immediately afterwards, a high institutional office of the People's Party says: "There is a section of the National Audience that is in favour of applying a judicial doctrine that is always favorable to terrorists." That is said by high institutional representatives of the People's Party, members of his Majesty's Government. That a humble spokesman for autonomous government echoes the complaints of judges and magistrates about these interferences, and expresses his concern about the negative impact this is having on the rule of law, is the least that can be done, out of commitment to the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u66	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u67	Mr. Erkoreka, my last name is Semper, and it will remain so. I understand that this lack of grace in his initial intervention is due to the lack of arguments. Yeah, rudeness should be a little out of hand. Look, the governments, and yours is one that is also characterized by this, manifest themselves on the political or judicial facts that happen in the society in which they have to intervene. This comes within and belongs to the scope of the discretion and political freedom of both governments when it comes to manifesting themselves. Even though his Government had not also expressed its views on judicial sentences on many occasions, judicial sentences that could be handed down on many occasions! What I am talking about is the constant questioning of the normal functioning of the democratic institutions of the rule of law. The pressures happen, of course. You guys are trying to push. Mr Maneiro at the beginning of the year accused you of pressuring Basque judges not to pursue investigations, for example in relation to advertising contracts awarded by the Basque Government. For example. In this Parliament you have been accused of putting pressure on judges. What can't be, what surpasses any reasonable position of a government that pretends to be sensible, is that it's only news from the gloom and from putting the finger in the eye of the adversary or another government. You can't be to God begging and with the deck giving. They cannot pretend to seek understanding and agreement and positive response, as the lehendakari appealed in another previous question or in another interpellation, and you to give wood, and also unjustifiably, putting yourself in the most anti-system thesis. And you have a jacket to be anti-system, the days you appear, and other days to be very pro-system, when the lehendakari appears. And this is a mess, Mr. Erkoreka. It can't be! You cannot be straining the normal relationship between governments, with discrepancies, because politics is and democracy is also discrepancy and confrontation, of course it is. And you are characterized by being not the mouthpiece of a government, but the most important mouthpiece of a parliamentary group. Get over that stage, Mr. Erkoreka.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u68	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr. Erkokuk, you're the one.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Semper, you accuse me of being a little less than anti-system. No, he literally told me I'm an anti-system. Look, I'm going to reproduce sentences pronounced in relation to that same episode by other distinguished officials of the Administration of Justice, whom I believe you cannot qualify as anti-system. Look. The president of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country said that, in that judgment to which you refer from the National Court, "At that time there is a great pressure against judicial independence, because prominent members of the Government, genuine ministers, intervene." President of the General Council of the Judiciary, Mr Lesmes: he subscribes to a document of the General Council of the Judiciary, headed by him, where he says "it lacks a minimally reasonable justification and is an unjustified excess of criticism of judicial decisions". Look, if you go online, you can find a multitude of statements of the same tenor not of politicians, not of government spokesmen: of the judges and magistrates themselves, who complain about the government's interferences. I'm just echoing them, just echoing it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u70	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, "about the intention given by the Basque Company to sell a portion of his capital in Burst." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u71	Hello, good morning, everyone. 20 years ago, when Euskaltel became a company, it comes from purpose or purpose, and the rest is to play a strategic paper in the circle of euskal telecommunicate, so that the several Basque institutions and savings were followed by this origin. In addition to the giving of services, it was at that moment intended to guarantee the presence of euphora as an strategical in this field of communications or telecommunics, and also to help in research, in technological and economic development. But in recent years we see that Euscaltel has taken another road, and we see it with care and uneasiness, and we must say that the way he leads is not to be fulfilled in the original strategic paper, but that other undertakings have arisen around us, which have led us to have that uneasiness. Some important parts of the Basques have been sold, and a large portion of the Basque property is in the hands of foreign funds. There's been some major elegal sternization process and some important services have been released. Besides, several employees, 100 and indentation, have been subjected to another company, and, in the past few weeks, we've known that the company's intention is to sell a piece of capital in the stock market. So we're making the following equivocations: Do you think that selling a portion of the Basque capital into the stocks is compatible with the original goals of the company, such as local technological development, an offer of advanced assets, a connection to the earth, and so on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u72	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mrs. Tapia is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mr. Casanova, you ask me more and more about the Basquepress, and, according to the relation of several companies to our department, you will forgive me if I say nothing special to you, as far as possible, with my data. Besides, I'd like to say that 20 years ago, it's true, that this fun decided to have a company around the telecommunciation, to have a special company, it was important Eukadin, and so many resources were made. Today, 20 years later, this company is here. He's done his goal and he's still working. So when public money is put and gambling is made and private companies go forward, that's by degrees taking out the money, and private business is doing its own course, and today it's a private Basque company at 100 percent. However, the Basques have already stated in public, as you have mentioned, that when you examine the possibility of getting out of the stock, rhabster, which is still being examined, the company will have the following purpose: One, continuing to be the main operator in the field of telecommunication, two, the growth and development of the company, the three, more highlight in the markets, and the possibility of additional funding for four, organic growth, and inorganic growth. So I think we can all agree on these ends. All this, too, without losing the nationality and the business romance, which is an engagement made unanimously by the Basque members, with the commitment to bring the international investors to the Euscalel. We are also told that in this work of the Esuphorians, Tabulars, Iberdols, and foreign funds had been agreed to secure the root of Euscaltels in a constant manner, and thus it is in the compact between them. To this end, they signed a contract, which compels them to maintain a social and a public residence in the Eukarian activities. But not only this, but in the case of the active brands and principles, of course, the guarantee of human resources and materialities, which has been accomplished until now, and that purpose is still to be found. And in this process of analysis, to get out of the stock, it's still there that trunk will remain a member of the Basque Reference. So all the initial conditions are guaranteed, as has been done so far, and it allows Euscale to take some important step.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u75	Yes, you did. It is well that the combination of public institutions is produced and encouraged by the production of strategic projects. But the problem is, when this investment and public presence disappear, how it ensures that these goals are preserved. I've discussed the object of any private company here more than once, and it's very simple, and it's making money. The purpose of a private company is to make money: p. If it be not asserted, by some other influence, that certain additional ends are applied, we are not assured that there will be such opposite ends, i.e. connection to the earth, a tractor effect, and so on. And the substance of the introduction of Euscalels is a very clear example of what one ought not to do. We're ready to get the outer capital if it needs to come, and it's accepted. We're looking for members for corporations. That's logical, and all companies are intercommunicated, and it needs capitals, and so on. But one thing is that the investors or the partners come, and another thing is that the speculator comes. And the attitude of these funds shows that they've been here for two years and that they're leaving after. They don't bring anything, they don't bring techs, they don't bring new marketes, knovs, they don't bring anything to do, they don't, they don't, they buy an investment, an investment, they buy houses, companies, a department, or something else. It doesn't matter, it's important to make money in a short time, and that's what we care about, if it comes out in the stock, it can happen again with the Basques. And, as I said yesterday, I won't be able to get SIM card here because it's too small and won't be seen. And that's not only from a chaubinist point of view, but because people know that when they make a bet for the Basques, they're also pushing a hundred economics around here. And that's what's in danger, and if the company takes that road, we're worried, and we don't want it. And don't tell me we're against the Basques now, because we want to defend the original story of the Basques.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u76	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u77	Thank you. To begin following me, Mr. Casanova, I didn't say you weren't against me when I said what I didn't say. Secondly, of course a private company is about to make money, but not just for that. Neither Euskaltel nor any of the companies in this country are alone for that. They have a commitment to this country: a commitment to employment, to economic growth, to the maintenance of the welfare state we have provided ourselves with. Otherwise, obviously, they wouldn't be here, they'd probably be making a lot more money somewhere else, and that's proof of their commitment. And if Euskaltel has done something for twenty years – and I'm talking about Euskaltel because it's the question you ask me, but I could extend it to many others – it's to keep jobs, to grow, to have good results, to keep all the jobs you have, to make them grow, to have more technological investments. And that's what you're also looking for with the stock market, guaranteeing you stay in Euskadi, because that's in the partner pact. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Vicente Reyes Martín Sociialists in the group of legal members made to the head of economics and contestations to aid I+G+B." Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u79	Yes, good morning, everyone. At the end of January, he said, companies and technology centres still did not know whether they were going to have R & D aid for the 2014 financial year, which discourages and harms R & D by companies. The matter is more serious, because last year you did the same thing. In January 2014, I had to ask you about the delay in granting aid for 2013. You acknowledged the delay, but did not communicate the resolution to any company in time, so some companies received the first payment of the aid not before the end of February, and others in March. First payment. And this year the same thing: you have sent the resolutions for those same programmes between 3 and 9 February, which means that hopefully they will have received the advance by the end of February. It is true that by request you have increased the time limit of the application for Gaitek in eight days, but this is a minimum pointless relief, because on these dates several obligations are brought together for the companies that require a great dedication in a short time, and not all can give answer, especially the SMEs, which are the majority. The question is why they don't solve it, if it's a recurring matter. Right now SMEs have to close last year, they also have to make the justification for the 2014 grant, which they just found out in February whether they have it or not and for which you give them less and less time, and that is what they have informed you later this year. That is, less time for companies and more time for management of the Administration, and everything to solve more and more later. That's the fact. In addition, SMEs also have to set up the new grant application, which takes time and people, because in some calls it is a very demanding process, as in Gaitek. Fourthly, and fundamentally, the failure to comply with the European objectives. In these calls they use European funds to encourage R & D for which the Council of Europe states that research should start once the grant has been granted, and you report the concession two months after the end of the year in which it should have been done. This is a dislate. So tell me, please, counselor, do you not think it necessary to review the deadlines for calls for aid or subsidies for R & D?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u80	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u81	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Yes, Mr Reyes, we are aware of the difficulties, the delays in the award and the notification. Moreover, this year is getting worse, as you say, because the Community framework for State aid was changed in July 2014, and we have had to adapt our programmes to that new Community framework. The PCTI 2020 was approved in December 2014, and therefore all these new calls, including the Gaitek, have not been able to leave, as on other occasions, in advance of the call in December 2014, which corresponds to 2015, and in addition the order is of 11 February 2015. However, I am going to comment that the regulatory rules of this programme say that in order to guarantee the incentive effect, projects that start after the date of submission of applications (no award, submission of applications) can benefit from them. Therefore, since the European framework has been delayed and our programmes have also been welcomed by the Community later, and we have therefore been delayed for two months in the implementation of the programme, companies have less time to present it, and we are aware that this year we have left only one month for them to present the projects. We are aware of the difficulty. We have tried to extend the deadline a little bit. I know it's only ten days, but from now on they also have to start working on that project so that it can then be compatible and computed within this aid programme. You also know that this year we have changed the Gaitek call, so that the justification of these projects is much simpler from next year. Because also in the justification and calculation of aid there were difficulties when, from European legislation, they came to review it, plus the revision that was made by the government itself. We have therefore tried to change that situation and to alleviate the problems that we are aware that we are causing, but this year it is true that we have not been able to do so in any other way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Reyes, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u83	Yes, Counselor, the question is that it is not the fault of the Council of Europe, because what happened the previous year, in which the call had no external influence and you replied at the end of February, that is, two months after the end of the exercise in which it had to be carried out? Moreover, it is a mismanagement, of course, because it is recurrent, and it has no other issue. That's why we have to change it, we have to improve it. And I propose, for that reason, that you take account of Europe in all respects, not only for the justification of companies, so that they have more detail in the justification, but in the actions of the Administration, in the good practices of the Administration. Why don't you take the elements of the fast track for innovation, that is, why you don't take the fast path, in which you divide resolutions into several periods – which is what Europe proposes – by reserving money for each period, and then, apart from allowing companies to do more paused work, you can have more way, easier to solve? The point is that this government has to apply in all respects is to manage well, it is not doing so, and to fulfill that that behind the numbers there are people. Because in this case it is harming the people involved in this matter. How are you going to present...?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u84	Thank you, Mr. Reyes. It's over. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u85	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Reyes, precisely because we are aware of the difficulties in justifying these projects, which then entails delays that should not occur, this year we have changed the call, and, of course, we have tried to make that justification simpler. More difficulty in the presentation yes, but then more ease in the justification. But, in any case, I note your suggestion for possible further modifications to the programme and that we be more efficient and that companies certainly receive communication as quickly as possible. And not only communication, but we are able to get that money and incentive to R & D & i to that company as soon as possible and to get to product and market as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. fourteen points in theme list: "Interadectition, made by the members of the U.S.A.S.A.A.A.Aqua, Bioxicus, and Gipuzian members of the D.A.D.S.S.S.S.C.C.C.S.S.S.C.C.C.C.C.C.S.C.C.C.S.C.C.S.S.A.S.A.S.A.A.S.A.A. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u87	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Chief of Investigation. We all know that because we're constantly listening to it, it's because we've been listening to it since 2008 that human difference in society is getting bigger and bigger. And this situation is becoming worse for the last two years; the break and social cracks are remarkable, and, in the opinion of the EH Collect, if we do not take the necessary measures as soon as possible, these differences will spread. The social inequality, such as unemployment, poverty and real autonomy and lack of freedom, has not disappeared; we are in a more presidency condition. The Araban, the Bazai, and the Gipuzian are 360,000 people at the edge of society, of which 113,000 in extreme condition. And among people who have employment, there is a level of poverty to 14%. Money is doubtless very ill distributed: the rich are richer and richer, and the poor are growing poorer and poorer, unfortunately. Moreover, the chronification of poverty is remarkable, as it is remarkable, the chronification of unemployment. We already know that in other places the poverty rate is higher, but here inequality is greater, differences are greater, and the poor are increasingly poorer. For different reasons, potential recipients of income guarantee income or social emergency aid sometimes do not access the system. Fifty thousand people who are excluded because they do not meet the requirements, because they do not know that they opt for these rights, or because for one reason or another they do not approach social services. It should also be recalled that there is no doubt that in recent months the social rights and public services that provide them have been affected by unfair controversies. These controversies only delegitimize their work and stigmatize those in need. And that, no doubt, also makes people or families who do not claim their rights by law. What is worrying is that, for one reason or another, there are people today between us and us who are in a situation of unprotectiveness. Mr Toña – already told us by his predecessor Mr Aburto –, a quarter of people at risk of poverty do not access income guarantee income. And in that group, people who are out of work are especially worried about us. We're told over and over that new jobs are gonna be good times. But we must consider that this employment which is forming is, above all, a provisional and presidency. At the present day unlimited contracts are a ravis in the work-world. Most people who get the job go back to unemployment for a few months. Prestony work, a situation far from a minimum of dignity. And in front of that awful situation, you know, it didn't do much. In fact, what he's done is nothing. You haven't made much effort to remain a work-reform, for example, to force social clauses, or to make a social job of quality. The objective facts, the social agencies, and several associations, have made it clear today that in Aran, Biscay, and Gipuzian, the area of 171,000 of which are suspended for a long period of unemployment. Even more, about 47% of all unemployed people don't get any economic training. It's obviously troubling, and that's why we bring this interpelation here today. 110,000 people in unemployment for a long period, and among them, some collective deterrents: young people, age 45 or women. Even the woman's is in that vulnerable group: We usually have longer employments, smaller wages, harder marketing. We have to put our main efforts in those groups above mentioned, so that we don't have to abandon those collectiveities. We must combat the chronification of unemployment, a situation which results in the chronification of poverty, in short, a situation of severe social exclusion. Mr Toña, if only four out of ten Basque unemployed receive a contributory benefit, a grant or an active reintegration income, what is the situation with the others? What about people, families with no income at all? What do they live on? Malviven, or they survive thanks to entities in the third sector. And that is why we are convinced that we need to strengthen our system, we need to put in more resources, which are necessary, so that all the people we live in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa do so with a minimum of dignity. And we have clearly to protect, complete, and strengthen our own system. In this case, especially in the presence of a program similar to misery by Madrid. El Program de los 426 euros... It didn't come out of me. And we are very clear that in the face of this situation, assistanceist measures are not enough or timely. Much more global action must be taken, which will improve the situation of social exclusion that so many people are suffering. A compromise amendment had already been adopted in the November plenary on poverty and employment, urging the Government to integrate those who were excluded from the social protection system, such as those who had been left without unemployment benefits, into the social protection system. In November we warned most of the groups in this House, and last week we remembered it again. During the meeting on March 5th, we received an important point from EHG, just as the legislatures did, on the other side of the proposition, during which most of the members of the legislature were assembled. Just a few days ago, we agreed to introduce this request to you. The parliamentor asks you to take the necessary measures to strengthen the system of our society, which is the fourth pillar of the state of well-being. It is the aim of a minimum degree of life for the unemployed inhabitants of Avaba, Biocians, and Gipus. Therefore we ask you today what steps and measures you foresee are, what we shall do, to protect the labourers of Aran, the Bazan, and the Gipuz. How do we get these people inside the protection system? It is clear that the measures which Madrid has imposed upon us are of no use except to penetrate into our jurisdictions. We have our own protection system, and we have a chance to step forward. We must, no doubt, seek solutions for people who are unemployed, but what we most care about at the present moment is without unemployment. Mr. Chief of Investigation, you're on your way, the agreement of the past week is on your desk, and now we're waiting for the measurements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u89	Thank you, ma'am. I agree with you, Mrs. Eva Blanco, with several things you've said. But one thing is to see what passes and we all see what we can do. We agree that social services are based on the state of well-being when you say that they must be irascible, and that the legislature says they ought to be. The goal is to guarantee minimum conditions of life. The agreement of the legislative is the only case of workers who are not co-educted. But the social system which we make amongst all of us is for the protection of all the persons who are under a necessity, and from this point of view we direct our work. You're asking how step we're taking. But what steps we take, I should say, both in the field of work and in the social world. First of all, in the social world, for example, in order to guarantee, strengthen, and defend RGI's service. And we've often had to defend ourselves for the past few years. Every year the AES numbers increase, not as much as we all want, but they've grown up. We develop the law of social services, the service wallets, and the Eedels. And the second, in the field of work, e.g. Rev., I agree with you, we've put a resource in the state's application to activate jobs because you know it's in our partnership, especially because the run-off Euscadian compels us to choose between the help and the RGI. In social conversation we're beginning to work by agreement, and soon we'll see about young people's work. The occupation plan is in full force, and we've asked for a performance in this parliament to account for this year's initiative, and we'll soon have the balance of what we've made last year. And we'll soon be able to introduce the project of the job law. And, as you know, the arrangement of the profession is nearly over, not because things have been made easy, but that's what we are. I will not deny, Mrs Blanco, that increasing inequality is a crucial and nuclear issue in our society. The rise. Parliament urges us to take the necessary measures to strengthen our social protection system, which is the fourth pillar of the welfare state, in order to guarantee minimum living conditions worthy of the unemployed in Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa who are not covered by unemployment. And I share with you too the drama of unemployment. We believe and advocate that social services should constitute the fourth pillar of the welfare state together with the pension system, health and education. We can't do everything, but we do everything we can. We believe it, we defend it, and to the extent that resources allow it, we are building it among all. But not only for workers who lose their unemployment coverage because of the circumstances of the crisis, but for all those in need. You have said, Mrs Blanco, that it is the entities in the third sector that often help them. I have an obligation to remember that this third sector from our department, from social policies, is helped, precisely to provide such aid. Our system may not yet be the one we all want, it may not be the one we want; it may not have consolidated all the rights that we all would like, and of course it is clear that we do not have all the money in Basque institutions that we would like to invest in employment, housing and social services policies. But we also have to be aware of that. It is not enough to ask and ask for more, if everything has to come out of the same fund and always scarce resources. And the main principle of policy is precisely the principle of justice, which consists of the efficient and equitable allocation of always scarce resources. But we have to start by recognizing what we have, which is not a small thing, protecting it, and, as far as possible, improving it, making it more fair and effective. But since the question is very specific and relates to the field of employment and the agreement reached in Parliament on last day 5, in this respect I have to remind you that only two days before, in the Governing Council, we decided to apply to the Constitutional Court the aid of EUR 426 to unemployed persons with family burdens, for violating competences and in the face of the State's refusal to agree to it. We believe that this aid must be financed in accordance with the system of economic concertation. And do you know, Mrs. Blanco, how much would this mean if we paid attention to our legitimate claim? 75 million euros more for our budget. But they haven't left us. Despite our requirements to negotiate this incentive to promote employment, the Spanish Government has violated competition in active employment policies, transferred in 2010. And this aid is part of the activation programme for employment agreed in December between the Spanish Government, business organisations and trade unions, but, in our view, it violates competences in the field of active employment policies, as well as the financial relationship that we have established between Euskadi and the State through the Economic Concert. This accompanying aid is not in the nature of an unemployment benefit or other social security benefit but is an incentive to promote employment, which is included in the material field of transferred competition. That is why we maintain that it is Lanbide who has to decide and finance himself in accordance with the system of economic concertation, and not as the State has done. On the other hand, we also do not agree that aid has become incompatible with other types of benefits, such as GIR, because this obviously means that all Basque citizens will opt for GIR, which is much better than the aid that the State has made available. The most logical thing is that these people receive the extraordinary help that the State has given, and that from there, if they meet the requirements provided for by our legislation, they access the supplement of GIR up to the established amounts, which, on the other hand, would allow us once again to have an additional amount of budget to deal with some of the issues that we want to attend to all. And in this same area of employment, as you know, the 2014-2016 Employment Plan is in force, with its successes and failures. This has also been the subject of negotiations at various bureaux, and of different agreements to be included in the corresponding annual action plans. Some of them will be seen this month in Lanbide and in the Governing Council. Youth employment agreements, long-term unemployed, accreditation of skills of people affected by ERE, local employment plans for over fifty-five years of age. I know that sometimes it's a patch, I know it's not all we want, but it's what we can do. All of them for the benefit of those who are seeking employment and do not find it. We have asked to appear in the Committee on Employment, Social Policy and Housing to explain our action plan in 2015. And when the 2014 balance sheet is complete, we will also report on it, as was done last year. They will remember that the balance sheet collected, with a direct impact on generation support, about 10,600 jobs and more than 44,000 people in terms of job maintenance, and almost 120,000 people who improve their skills. I'm not very much in favour of numbers, especially if what they do is say how well we do things, but sometimes we have to say what we do. And we also look forward to renewing the calls for employment promotion, Lehen Aukera, which is important to us, local employment plans, protected employment and training. Our first action in the protection of these people is to focus on the development of the investment programme of the Framework Programme for Employment and Economic Revitalization (I know it sounds very good and sometimes it fills our mouths); the second, to continue to implement the employment plan included also in the framework programme, and the third, to strengthen our social protection system. They are the instruments that we have in our hand and they are the instruments that we will use to enhance our employment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u90	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u91	Thanks again. Mr Toña, I'm surprised, and I also think you contradict yourself, when you say that you don't have to wonder what you can do, but what you are doing. He's not going to tell us what new things to do, but what they're doing. Because he's named us the GIR, he's named us the employment plans, he's named us the social emergency aid... He hasn't told us anything new! But then, on the other hand, you say you admit that inequality is increasing. So, if inequality is increasing, if new situations of poverty are being created, if we have 50,000 people who do not access the system, do you think that with what they are doing is enough? No, no, Actually, no. And it makes us an excuse that we don't get to everything, that it's a budgetary issue, we understand. We certainly have another point of view as to how to distribute and where to distribute the money from the budgets. We have another point of view. Social policies must be strengthened, no doubt also economically, and that requires a budgetary commitment. Because he named us the portfolio decree and the social services map... It's just approved! What that is undeveloped is that it is not bringing us anything new! Let him tell us that there are social emergency aid and that a million and a half euros have been increased, knowing that last year the municipalities already put 10, does not bring us anything new, but I remind him that here there is also a parliamentary agreement that urges him to amend that decree in order to arrive at new situations. You'd have to start studying that somehow! We understand you'd have to start bringing proposals about that! They would have to start thinking about what new measures..., not what is being done, but what new measures have to be proposed, because the protection system – we have said more than once – is good, with its shortcomings, with its cuts, but somehow serves to alleviate many situations of poverty. Now, it is also true that since the year 2008 when this law was created today the situation has changed, and, as the situation has changed, the measures also have to be different. At least we see it clearly. He tells us about the unemployed, the long-term ones. But what about those 50,000 people who stay out? Why aren't they accessing social services? Why aren't they getting their rights, those that by law belong to them? And what's going on with our kids? You said yesterday in your conversation that we're playing too much with the youth's prevaricant and that their work is worthy of the government and the president's priority: quantity and quality. You say you'll do something. Anything? It's not a good way to stay in attention, Mr. Chief. We want to see some proposal. It is the families, the people, who are suffering this calvary. They're not numbers, they're not data. Situations that also affect our elders, which support many families. These are situations that, unfortunately, contribute to increasing cases of depression, psychological problems, health problems, poor food, households that do not enjoy the proper temperature... And I'm saying all this because it's not just up to your department, because we believe that the government here has to make the effort in all departments, not just yours. And above all we have to think and we have to put the eye, the focus, the work we have to focus on people who do not go to social services. And I'm going to name the campaign that the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council has just presented: it has launched a campaign to try to reach the 17,000 Gipuzcoans and Gipuzcoans who do not access social assistance, in a proactive and positive way. That's also a way to start that I don't think it'll cost much money. I will end with a few words from Mr Ibarretxe, whom we read yesterday in the press and he referred them to you, which is a reflection, a question that said: "We renew our commitment to a Basque model for sustainable human development, we do that, or do we get carried away by the tide of inequality?". Are we going to get carried away by the tide of inequality, counselor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u93	It's easy to say these things, really. But in our Parliament, our government, we can't say anything. I can agree with a lot of things you've said, okay? And then? Where do we get the money? You say, yes, you do things differently. Well, and you've put it like the Gipuzian Dyputation models, if you're in Gipuz, you're in charge of it, and here's another parliament, and we think we do what we can. And I agree with what Baruch says, okay, and the government agrees. What often happens is that we can do the same thing in another different way, if we agree with the motive, then we can take different cots, but we can meet in one way and another in another place. We are at a time of economic cycle change, at least that says the macroeconomic data, but I am aware, we are aware in the Government, that the consequences of the crisis will last over time, and that there will be situations of people without unemployment coverage and with other needs that must be met by social services. Employment data indicate a positive but less positive trend than we would all like. It has already appeared in the press, in the media; therefore, we can already say so. I also have a son in unemployment! Reversing the effects of such a long and profound crisis is not easy, and putting them back requires much effort. This situation maintains tension over protection systems, income-guarantee income, supplementary housing provision, social emergency aid, demand for social housing, out-of-town and municipal services. And in this environment we are committed to equipping, guaranteeing and defending the GIR system. It must be remembered a thousand times: that is, there is no other system of comparison, of course, in the state, and very few in all of Europe. We fight against those who want to stigmatize people who use social services, because there are still them, who want to point them with their finger; against those who treat recipients of economic aid and users of social resources as if they were criminals and vague. We are increasing the allocation of social emergency aid every year. Insufficiently? Okay. I will always say the same: in accordance with the principle of fair and efficient allocation of scarce resources. An extraordinary fund has been approved to deal with situations of energy poverty. Insufficient, but we've made some progress. ESAs will be reformed to accommodate new situations of poverty and lack of liquidity. We have committed ourselves to that. And we remain committed to the improvement of Lanbide (with the difficulties we have, we all know it), to equip it with better management tools, to the improvement of its processes, to the consolidation of a structure and a staff that they can do, that they have to meet the needs of the people who demand their services. And finally, from the area of Employment this year, EUR 250 million will be mobilised in the implementation of the actions of the 2015 employment plan. It is not up to us to generate employment, but to create conditions for employers to generate such employment. I remind you of the data from the previous year: support was given to the generation of about 10,600 jobs, the maintenance of 44,000 jobs, and almost 120,000 people who improved their qualifications. [[Tengo la hoja 7 perida; como tengo 29 seconds, si la encuentro...]] I'm done with this. I think we can agree on the diagnoses; the only thing that surely separates us are the budgetary constraints that we have and how we believe that we have to make the budget reallocations and to what items we have to devote how much money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u94	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 15th point in the subject list. "Interpologies, written by the staff of Eplegus and Polynic Society, by José Antonio Pastor Garrido, Eusquileists, a member of the society of the United States, and the delay of improving the preparations for the improvement of plans." Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u95	Thank you, President. Mr Councilman, good worker training, in the eyes of the whole world, is the fundamental basis of the modern and competitive economy, but in a state of economic depression, unacceptable unemployment rates and precarious working conditions, favored by a savage labour reform, the training of workers, both the unemployed and the employed, is one of the main tools of the public authorities to try to alleviate the situation. Firstly, to ensure that people with work can consolidate their jobs or ascend to the labour market, and in the case of the unemployed to improve their skills and gain access to decent jobs and to have, until that goal is achieved, an activity and an occupation in their daily lives. In the case of training for employed workers, this task is being carried out in Euskadi Hobetuz, a foundation created in 1995 through a tripartite agreement between employers, trade unions and the Basque Government. Hobetuz's life has been through vicissitudes, some of which, the main ones, are due to the initial insecurity with which it moved in its financing, since it was born from one of those budgetary pacts that the PNV usually makes in Madrid, and others due to the hegemonic pretensions of the nationalist unions, which finally abandoned the patronage in 2007. The fact is that Hobetuz's funding was normalized when it became exclusively dependent on the Basque Government, with the transfer of the active employment policies to which you referred in the previous inquiry. And that its activity, according to statements by the Basque Government itself on many occasions, has been clearly positive for Basque society. Because who better than businesses, trade unions and the Basque Government together can identify training needs in our economic structures and put the means in place to meet them properly. Well, last December the patronage of the Hobetuz Foundation approved and allocated funding to the various programmes that make up the call for vocational training courses for this year 2015. It has been almost three months since then, and neither the Lanbide Board of Directors nor the Governing Council has yet freed up this training instrument, despite its corresponding budgetary forecast. This delay in Euskadi occurs when in Spain the PP government has announced a reform of the training plans; a reform that, knowing the background of the labour deregulation of the Rajoy Executive and its hobby of tearing down public services one after another, we may fear that it will not be precisely to enhance the training of workers. A reform that at this time of the year, and taking into account the subsequent regulatory adjustment, would make it very difficult for it to be implemented effectively in the current year. And we think that, coinciding over time with the delay of the Basque Government in ratifying what Hobetuz has already designed, with the intentions of the Government of Spain in this regard, doubts have arisen (we have had doubts, trade unions have had doubts) and concerns about the real reasons for this delay in taking forward the 2015 course call. Because, unfortunately, we know the precedents with which this government, so demanding in the face of the central administration on symbolic or identity issues, nevertheless is pleased in other areas to accommodate the dictates of the PP government. That is, he hides himself under the reforms of the central government, with which he is delighted but without saying so. Dimulate a little. Especially when this involves some kind of savings, even at the expense of neglecting social needs of their responsibility or of not addressing actions already budgeted and very convenient for citizens. And there are many examples. That is why our group has presented this inquiry. We want to know what the real reasons for the delay in implementing training plans are very necessary for workers, and above all we want to know what the Government's intentions are. What, in addition to what is expressed as a doubt, can be put on the table today the judgment communicated on Monday, which obliges Hobetuz to return more than 25 million euros. I suppose the Employment and Social Policy Adviser, Mr Toña, has already met with the employer and the unions, and he has taken the pulse of his department, and he will be able to tell us something conclusive about it, because you have all the springs in your hands, the politicians and the budget. Charges from your department are part of Hobetuz's patronage, which I believe is meeting on Monday, several of those senior positions are on Lanbide's board of directors, and you are on the Governing Council, the body to which you have the last word in this case. Perhaps I should have asked Mr Gatzagaetxebarria, rather than you, to know what the real intentions are. Take us out of doubt, and tell the Basque workers what this exercise in occupational training can expect, and when you will be able to opt for a course that improves your training and competence, if that is the political decision that you take on Monday to the Hobetuz employers' office.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u96	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u97	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Pastor, in order to quickly get to the bottom of the matter and answer your question, I have to tell you that there is no delay in the processing of the Hobetuz training plans. On the other hand, the convening of the programmes for this exercise is not affected by the plans of the Government of the State on this matter. Two important statements. We're gonna make sure he doesn't get hurt. And, of course, if there is a Basque government acting on the dictate of the Spanish government, I do not think this is it. As far as the legislature goes, the Government has had to go to the Constitutional Court on 13 occasions to denounce the Spanish Government's competitive invasions. In particular, we have lodged ten constitutional appeals and three positive conflicts of jurisdiction, all of which have not yet been resolved by the High Court. I can quote a few, but at the moment it seems important to avoid them. But issues affecting the activation programmes for employment, the vocational retraining programme for people who exhaust unemployment protections, the protections of part-time workers, the basic conditions for issuing and using parking cards, etc. All of them affect precisely the world of work we are talking about. On the other hand, the process of approving the calls is, and you know it, Mr. Pastor, because in the previous legislature they also had to follow all these procedures... The calls are drawn up by the Hobetuz Texts Commission, Lanbide's collaborating foundation. This commission is tripartite, made up of the Basque Government, trade unions and employers. Once the texts of the calls have been agreed, which are not always easy, they are raised to the patronage of the foundation for approval, and if this occurs they are sent to Lanbide. This was indeed done in December 2014. It has already been done, but it does not mean that competition is immediate, because we still have more steps. Lanbide then begins the processing of the Economic Control Office of the Department of Finance, and for this he has to have a budget appropriation. Normally the date on which the credit is available has to do with the financial closure of the previous year's financial year and the provision of the new credit, which is usually at the earliest in the second half of January of last year's budget year. Following this report by the Office of Economic Control, it is referred to the Lanbide Board of Directors for approval. We're getting to the point. If the amount of the call exceeds 5 million, it must also be approved by the Governing Council. It is subsequently published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country. Then, when the relevant appropriation has been made administratively, the call is processed, in order for the Office of Economic Control to make its mandatory report. I know this is all very long, but this is the dynamics of our governments. In fulfillment of this whole process, there has been convened – and this is my direct response, Mr. Pastor – a Lanbide board of directors for next March 18, next week. If all the documentation is in order, and I think it will be, because it must be, two basic points on the agenda could be adopted: the tenth point, which is the call for financial aid for the implementation of strategic training actions to be carried out by the enterprises of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and the eleventh point, which is the call for financial aid for training for employment, which is aimed primarily at employed workers. If, as I have said, these deadlines are met, Hobetuz's calls to which you refer and which are the subject of an inquiry will be published at the end of this month of March. But, in case you have any doubt, the calls for the year 2012 took place by order of the Employment and Social Affairs Council, Gemma Zabaleta, on 8 May; the calls for 2013, already with this Government, on 15 May; those of 2014, on 30 July. We were late, but at least, as you can see, in 2015 we will anticipate at least a couple of months. There is no delay, therefore, in the procedures for managing the calls, and much less in relation to the times of this procedure with the approval of a supposed reform by the Government of the Kingdom of Spain of the system of training for employment, of which we are all on notice and to which we want to anticipate, and to take out Hobetuz's call in time and form, and with sufficient anticipation of the entry into force of that still preliminary draft.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u98	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u99	Well, I appreciate the information, Mr. Toña, that clears up some of the doubts we had about Hobetuz, but there's another one left. Some economic and others political will. As you know, in 2002 Hobetuz handed over almost 16 million surplus training funds that had not been spent to the Basque Government at its request. And there is a claim by the state, SEPE, then asking for the return of that money, which as of the same week (on Monday the communication arrived) amounts to more than 25 million. Hobetuz claimed against this requirement, indicating that this surplus had been handed over to the Basque Government, and therefore the Basque Government could have returned it perfectly, since it was in its box. No such thing happened, the Basque Government looked elsewhere, and let Hobetuz fight alone with SEPE. The problem now is that there has not actually been a return, which Hobetuz is doomed to return more than EUR 25 million at the moment (it is not exactly a baladi figure), and therefore my specific question is what will be the position that you, as representatives of the Basque Government – Mr Barkala among others – are going to defend in the Hobetuz patronage that is being held this Monday. Because, if you don't respond to the economic claim and the court ruling, Hobetuz is going to pre-competition with creditors, as you know perfectly well. And that's what the employers' representatives are going to propose. Therefore, if that happens, neither call for courses, nor advance, nor delay: Hobetuz would disappear directly, except that you, as government that are and recipients of that surplus money that gives rise to the claim, assume the political, and economic commitment of course, to execute the sentence and return that money, money that Hobetuz does not have at this time. Therefore, I would like to know, and it is a very clear answer, whether you are going to make that decision or another, because in this case the resolution that is given to this problem of an economic nature directly and definitively influences the future of Hobetuz, whether it is going to be possible to maintain the foundation, or the training courses become dependent on Lanbide or it is not known what structure, with the danger that, according to the doctrine that also inspires the state legislative amendment of the People's Party, we would end up in a process of free competition with the outsourcing of training services, that is, the privatization of the service. That is why I am very interested, as a Socialist Group, and echoing the concerns of the trade unions and employers, who make up this patronage together with you, in knowing what the government is going to answer to this tremendous economic problem, to which, if it is not answered, the continuity of Hobetuz as a foundation for occupational training can be seriously jeopardized.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u100	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u101	I sincerely thank you, Mr Pastor, for at least the object of the inquiry has been cleared and you have so reasonably acknowledged it in at least the substantial part of it as regards the call for Hobetuz. What you are raising now is a different question, which is innovative, which came out last week and on which I can say what I can say, because, as you said, on Monday there is a meeting of the Hobetuz employers, who are competent to make decisions on this matter. I will not deny that the Government has much to say, and if the case comes, it will say and do. The 16 million that Hobetuz handed over to the government in his day are well controlled, they're there, we haven't... We can account for them exquisitely. And if in the process that will arise with the Hobetuz issue we have to face it, because that is the only solution for Hobetuz's salvation, I suppose the government will rise to the occasion and do what it has to do. The Government has no intention of having Hobetuz pre-competition with creditors (see if I know anything about that). He has no intention of having Hobetuz stop doing what he was doing right. They have no intention of the nineteen workers in Hobetuz running out of work. But the Government, on this issue, raises another question (it will, I suppose, in its day, if Hobetuz at its level, in its relationship with SEPE, is not able to raise it, at that level between Hobetuz and SEPE), raises a more important question. The active policies of Hobetuz, the active policies were transferred in 2010, and we have to understand that with the transfer of those active employment policies all these accounts were closed and that nothing had to be demanded of Hobetuz. Because the positive and negative were transferred, the debtor balances and the credit balances. But that is a debate that will come out when I have to go out. For now, let's wait for the Hobetuz meeting, let's wait for the positions. We have the possibility to present a judicial incident in relation to this provision to repay 16 million plus 9 million interest (recalculated, because at first the request was to return 45 million), and then we will make the corresponding decisions at the same time. The decisions I believe must be made in time, but not in time. To rush into decision-making is bad; to do it too late too. But now I come back to the question of the reply, because it seems to me – at least to finish it, I insist – that there are social actors who have an interest or expectation that the calls will be made earlier, but the reality, as I said, Mr Pastor, is that there are no delays or dependencies on the decisions of Madrid. In 2012, four calls for aid were published, implemented and wound up, responding to needs in different areas of continuing training in the Basque Country, which responded to different objectives and deadlines: Economic aid for training for supply employment targeted primarily at employed workers. Economic aid for the implementation of strategic training actions for the development of enterprises. Economic aid for the carrying out of studies and analysis and the detection of training needs carried out by undertakings in the Basque Autonomous Community which serve as a basis for improving the skills and qualifications of workers. Economic aid for the implementation of measures to support and accompany vocational training for employment within the Autonomous Community. These calls materialized in different orders; the dates of resolution were later. In 2013, two calls for aid were published, which responded differently to similar but improved needs than I mentioned in 2012. The deadlines for publication in the official newsletter were then delayed accordingly. In 2014, two calls for aid were again called for, which also responded to the needs and demands of social partners, and these calls were published on 30 July 2014. The date of resolution of the call was January 19, 2015. And, for the purpose of carrying out the actions of these calls, the deadlines for them are from 1 January of the year of the call until 30 June of the following year, until 30 June 2015.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u102	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary laws of the Belsen Rocke, made to the chief physician of the Society, and to maintain the revenues of the women who suffer violence, concerning the inconveniences and inconveniences of the revenue." Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u103	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. On the 6th of March, several groups of societies and women joined together in front of the Gastian Estate residence, "Lesta ampara la violencia de genero." No constraints under the motto. They accused women who suffer violence, the obstacles and inconveniences which the revenue imposes upon them to secure their revenues, and made several proposals. We ask you this question from the stress of the subject: We want to know if it's my intention to rectify immediately the difficulties and inconveniences that force the women who suffer violence to maintain their income for rentals.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u105	Thank you, ma'am. In the first place, I can't allow this question to be expressed in the justification of it. I know that your expressions are not yours, and I know that some associations are in communication, but in your question it is true that the profession makes difficulties and objections. I can't accept it. I can't accept it. That's not true. And I can't accept that because it's us, this department, together with other institutions, that we care to help women who suffer violence. When a person who is a victim of gender-based violence applies for income-guarantee income, Lanbide offers a priority treatment (you have to recognize things as they are!), adapted to their circumstances. The legislation also tells us that women victims of abuse can claim GIR if they only have one year of standard. They are not required to have one year of independent cohabitation. They can be charged from the age of eighteen, they can be charged as a special cohabitation unit for two years without taking family income into account. It's easy to consult the regulations! The problem is how to verify that the situation is real. For that, and I have to comply with the regulations, because I don't have... Because if a woman comes to me who says she's a victim of abuse, I can believe her, but it's not enough for me to believe, I have to see what the regulations say. And what the regulations tell me is that you should be accredited by photocopy of the relevant court decision or report from the Public Prosecutor's Office indicating that there are indications that the complainant is a victim of gender-based violence, while the protection order is issued. And this is what we do. Because we have no other way of believing that a woman is a victim of abuse. We don't stop, we don't hinder a woman with ill-treatment. How are we going to do it! But if we have to ask for any accreditation, we have an obligation, by a reasonable state of law, to demand it. But in good ways, in good ways, without abuse, but precisely, as the regulations have foreseen, welcoming it more and better.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u106	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u107	Yes, chief physician, it's all that you're not supposed to accept, the banner said, that's all there is to it. "Ampara la violencia de genero." "No Constraints." That's what I got. There are so many things about you and your conditions, but I will put other things on the table, which showed what was behind it. The profession is not a trained physical place to attend to the victims of the fanaticism of the genus, and I believe that we shall agree in it. Respect is unrelenting, and is not ready for it. Besides, the Professional workers have not had any special training from the point of view of the genus, and this also ought to be done. The women who are victims of bad treatment are invested with a certain way of getting help, and you are talking about it now, and it's about the accusation. But knowing that the charges are only 15% of the time bad treatments, and I think we all know and probably agree. It is likewise a condition, that after the accusation there should be a restraining order, which is given by a judge, who is not determined by women, and I think it is not sufficient to avoid the assistance of such an order. or women who have children are forced to accuse their father, and to give him an accusation of food. We all know the situations in which women are treated badly, and sometimes these accusations are not possible, or they are not even convenient, or they cannot be done, or these women are incapable of doing so. Other conditions also take place. I shall not mention all of them, for instance, to enter the marriage division within a year, or to know whether or not the additional preparation of the house is to be found in a rent, or in another income, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., and so on. And it seems to us that they are not acceptable and just, that we ought to settle this situation. And so many measures have been placed on the table, and we say that attention must be a protocol, that there must be a place. People must be prepared from their genetic point of view to face it. We propose that the charge of aid is not a condition, and not a restraining order. And how to strengthen or place anything on the side of the process? I think that the social services are for that, perhaps, must be reviewed, the work which social services have to do, and the specialized workers to do these ratings and reports, and not to ask for further time, in so short a time of separation. And they're all co-ordinated with the workers' services. Not all procedures ought to be that which are now on the table; there may be others. We consider proposals just and necessary, Mr. Chief.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u109	Mrs. Gardo, the banners can say a lot of things, and, besides, they must be respected: it is our liberty and our democracy that demands them. But it's not always true what's put on the panty. Sometimes, yes, but not always. If Nsostros alicam la Normiva de Profession, and there's another procedure for that, but not one question. From the very beginning, Lanbide is launching a specific care protocol for victims of gender-based violence. They are served directly by specialized people, I tell you. "Well, they're not that specialized." Well, what we can do. This work is carried out in cooperation with other institutions, and this close collaboration makes it possible to take into account the reports made by workers to grant GIR to living units. The difficulty is that these women, sometimes out of fear or shame...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u110	Thank you, Mr. Toña, your time is over.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u111	...they don't always identify.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u112	The seventeenth point in the subject list: "The question is, the Ichasus González, a member of the Basque Sozalists, made to Enplegu and the head physician of the Polic Society, 2013-2016 of Housing Planes for bare housing and occasional repairing programmes." My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u113	Thank you, President. Counselor, I'm going to ask you about the housing area, which you're also responsible for. Housing policy has been nucleated in this government around what is called the Housing Master Plan 2013-2016. Among its objectives, it proposed that the Bizigune programme, for the capture of empty housing, should have 5,400 dwellings in 2013 and should have ended with 5,174 dwellings; in 2014 there should have been 5,450 dwellings, and it should have ended with 4,590 dwellings. That is, 512 housing units less than in 2012 and 860 less than those provided for in this master plan. Decree 466/2013 reduced the rents to the owners of the houses from 600 to 450 euros, so 167 of the 634 houses that left the Bizigune program did so out of disagreement with the income to be received. Thus, while 634 homes were lost, only 58 homes were captured during that period. I would like to say that the Socialist Government, from 2009 to 2012, increased from 4,557 to 5,102 (i.e. an increase of 12%). However, data from these objectives of the master plan that have not been achieved mean 10% less than there was and 17% less than expected. With regard to the ASAP programme, neither the expectations nor the objectives set were met, because of 280 housing that was expected for 2013 it was completed with 144, and for 2014, which was expected to have 350, it was terminated with 147. They have developed a campaign called "Open your home", whose cost is 164,575 euros and which aims to capture 400 homes. And, in response to a question posed by the parliamentary group Euskal Herria Bildu, on 9 March they are told that 54 houses have been captured, from the beginning of this campaign from the end of November until now. This is a very low figure, which gives us the impression that in six months it will not be possible to capture. The same could be said of the objectives of housing started for rent, which was essentially the nuclear element of this master plan, promoting the rental policy: it was proposed for 2013 to start 550, and only 79 have been started; for 2014 it was proposed to start 750, and only 217 have been started. Therefore, Mr. Counsellor, I ask you: on the basis of these data, of these evidences, what is the Government's view regarding the programmes of empty housing and intermediation in free rent?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u114	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u115	We're hostages to statistics, Mr. Itxaso. And I do not doubt that yours are properly raised and, therefore, this is a difficult question to answer from me. I'll answer you with data, too. Empty housing statistics for 2013 put the number of empty housing in our country at 8.7% of the total housing stock; of these, 2.7 were considered seasonal housing, so that the percentage of uninhabited housing actually stood at 6%. On the other hand, the rent regime is the most viable option for many applicants, and it is also the demand we are making that almost all groups in this Parliament. In January 2015, 73% of the applicants for the Etxebide registration were seeking housing under this rental scheme. To initiate a model change in housing policies, prioritizing rental actions – which do not need to be remembered that they are much more expensive for the public budget than for housing construction – the fifth axis of the Housing Master Plan establishes actions to reduce the number of uninhabited dwellings, and in this sense Euskadi has been a pioneer in implementing housing policies within the framework of a balanced and sustainable model. And programs designed to mobilize empty housing, such as Bizigune and ASAP, are proof of this, despite the fact that data sometimes do not always meet expectations. The public rental housing park today is 11,402 homes, and in December 2012 it was 11,073. We have increased the housing stock, which is the majority demand of our citizens. We have increased the number of government-owned homes from 5,767 to 6,487, and we are working to capture the largest number of empty homes but at a reasonable rental price, through the campaign "Open your house, earn insurance", which is going through Basque geography and which so far we have travelled twenty-five municipalities. I know it's not enough, but it's what's in our hands, and we'll keep doing it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u116	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mr. Scrooge's word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u117	Mr Councilman, I am also not a friend of being hostage to statistics, but to argue in this rostrum it is necessary to draw from the data, data that your Government provides and, therefore, it is evidence that this parliamentary group does not handle. On the other hand, I want to say that you have answered me, yes, with other data and other statistics, but you have not told me how you intend to reverse this situation. I must tell you that among his first manifestations, when he was appointed councillor, one of them was that he intended to continue his predecessor's policy, and that is a matter of concern, because the data I have given him, in fact, do not speak well of his predecessor's housing policy. So what we are asking you is what criteria you are going to propose to reverse this situation. I regret to tell you that you have entered a government where flames are unleashed throughout all departments, while the government continues to touch the lira. What I'm asking you is that in such an important matter as housing do more than be a power point government, because all we know so far are presentations, slides... in short, all this sort of thing. But what we ask of him is concrete and real government action, which reverses this situation and makes rental policy a reality that is contrasting with statistics and data. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u118	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Mr. Toña is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u119	Mr Itxaso, I have come to a constituted government, I have integrated myself into it, and I believe that my predecessor did what the government's plan of action and the party's electoral programme that led to the government planned to do, within the budgetary restrictions to which we are always subjected in these times of crisis. The Housing Master Plan aims to continue to make progress in improving the management of the Bizigune and ASAP programmes. In December 2013, the Bizigune program was modified to allow legal persons to transfer their homes in stock. We did something. As a result, in June 2014 Kutxabank yielded up to a hundred homes that are already being leased. Currently, contacts are being maintained with Laboral Kutxa, La Caixa and the Sareb to sign agreements in the same direction. I already know from my own experience what are the difficulties of negotiating with banks in these matters of real estate promotions. On the other hand, the new ASAP programme, managed through the department's website, was launched in October 2014. At the moment, there are 89 housing units available and 95 contracts have been signed, the best of which since its launch in 2012, although I acknowledge that there is a long way to go. To spread the existence of these programmes, a campaign was launched in November 2014 that will end in June of this year, to report on the guarantees offered by the Basque Government to those who want to lend us their apartments for rent. In addition, rehabilitation aid is being reviewed and the proposal for exemption from the tax on immovable property has been transferred to the Euskadi Tax Coordination Authority. Let's do, step by step, what we can and it's in our hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u120	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, María Isabel Celaa Déguez, a member of the Basque Socialists, made to the chief of the Board of Education, of Language, and of the Cultural School of the Catholic Religion." Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u121	Good morning, everyone. Mrs Uriarte, you have caused much concern in much of our contemporary society, resulting in social reproach and of course enormous criticism, deep criticism in the scientific community, knowledge of the curriculum of the recently published Catholic religion, I believe that on February 24th, in the Official Gazette of the State, and elaborated in its entirety by the Spanish Episcopal Conference. This curriculum contains elements such as "It will be impossible to achieve happiness without God", elements such as the most ancient theology, based on original sin and divine salvation as the only possibility, or elements such as "Recognizes with astonishment and strives to understand the student the divine origin of the cosmos, which does not come from chaos and chance". You, Madam Councillor, Mrs Uriarte, are responsible, therefore, for the supply of knowledge in the classroom – the only organised public space – for Basque pupils. Therefore, my question is, given what the situation is, and within the situation we actually have, where religion is not resolved in school, what its attitude is going to be. First, what opinion does the Basque Government have in relation to this curriculum, which is dogmatic as ever, indoctrinating as ever (what opinion does it have), and secondly what it is going to do. Will the Basque student actually be evaluated on the quantity and quality of astonishment produced by the recognition of the divine origin of the cosmos, or, on the contrary, will you take a different attitude towards such a fact? Nothing more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u123	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Mrs Celaá, I share with you that the knowledge transmitted to the student through our Basque curriculum must be in accordance with scientific truth, and I assure you that it is. Our students approach the origin of the universe from the scientific point of view, but they do so within the curriculum proper to Natural Sciences, as is logical. I just want to make it clear that the contents of that religious resume you've brought here today are out of our jurisdiction. You know well that this curriculum has been made by the Spanish bishops, the agreements between the Pope Spain and the Confederations. In any case, things must be reduced to their size, and, in truth, religion is a lesson to be given, and the lesson is the family's choice either to choose it or not to select it. Besides, religion is less time than before in a week of vacation, in order to strengthen science and education. In conclusion, as you ask me about evaluation, we hope that teachers will know how to interpret the contents and evaluations, and to place them in the context, adapted to the reality and the requirements of our pupils. Of course, they'll help us in all this, and we'll be willing to cooperate, to clear or direct anything.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u125	Yes, Mrs. Uriarte, I already knew that you were going to take the easy way, that is, "Hey, look, there's an agreement between the states and, therefore, fulfill yourself, let yourself be." But that's inhibiting. There is a time in history when those responsible, politics as a whole, that is, you as a government and even us as an opposition, must take the road in the dilemma, must take the road. Far from being inhibited, we must commit ourselves, we must assume full responsibility. And in this assumption of full responsibility, it corresponds with the fact that the effective supply of knowledge that reaches the classroom is not contradictory. Do you imagine that from ten to eleven are learning, understanding Darwin with the theory of the evolution of species, for half an hour later become confused about the divine origin of the cosmos? You have to commit to this, you have to start making an opinion. Religion in education is an unresolved issue, and you as a counselor and I as an opposition have to contribute to the evolution of social consciousness in this regard to seek a reasonable accommodation of religion, whether as a religious phenomenon, or as a history of religions, whether out of school hours and in school, or absolutely out of everything. But we need to know your opinion. You can't let this matter be a laissez faire-laissez passer (you already have an agreement, make them up), because you are a political responsible, and you are responsible...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u126	Thank you. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u127	Mrs Celaá, theologians and scientists have been debating divine action in the world for more than twenty-five years, for encrypting an amount. And believe me if I tell you that I would love to be able to dialogue and debate in a relaxed way in relation to various theories about the creation of the universe, I equal the theory of the big bang, the inflationary, M, quantum mechanics or even the creationist, but I think it is neither time nor place for such a debate. You're making an opportunity for a system of education that isn't professional. This system is based on the criteria of objectivity, tolerance, and neutrality, and ensures not to be dissected by the liberty of choosing men for reasons of religion. Thus we have said in 2003 before the proposal which this legislature granted. And it doesn't sound like fun to have the resume that's been set up to us, and to have the evaluations. There have been so many of the gleaners that have arisen about this matter, as you have mentioned TRUE, and the contrary voices which have appeared within the church. In fact, though an elective lesson, this curriculum ought to have a different point of view, for example, to cultivate religion as a part of its historical domain and culture, or a comparison of Christianity, and, properly speaking, of Catolicism, in the context of other beliefs. Yet, as I have already shown, we have little power of saying or producing anything in this or that. In any case, it is curious that you ask us for explanations or solutions, given the responsibility, in relation to a curriculum that is a direct consequence of the agreements signed in 1979 between the Spanish Government and the Holy See. The Social Party that ruled Euskadin, also published in 2010 by the Mayor of the Church, who had been appointed to the Basque Autonomia Estide, and there was the curriculumum of the Catholic religion of elementary education. And he also had several sentences and assertions, such as these, "God is Father. God creates and takes care of men. Human beings are God's children." I also remind you, Mrs Celaá, that these agreements have been in force all these years, of which twenty-two have been governed by the Socialist Party. However, you have never made the slightest effort to repeal or amend such agreements. And now that it opens again – because it is recurrent every time we talk about the curriculum – the debate is reopened, which has been latent since 1979...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "Interpolication, in order to prevent María del Carmen lópez de Ocariz by lópez'Muninka's member of the Populative Groups of Menalmen and Regional Policians from the consequences of the late February of 2015, of the urgent measures to be taken." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u129	Good morning, counselors. Thank you, Madam President. We present this question to the Councilwoman, referring to urgent measures to avoid the repeated phenomena of overflowing in some river basins of the Basque Autonomous Community... We initially put forward a request for the Commissioner to appear in committee, but knowing that the Commissioner did not have an agenda available for this appearance at a reasonable time, so what we are presenting was this inquiry. We would have liked, and I think there was reason, that the request for an appearance would have been made and requested by the Counsellor, and perhaps also urgently, because I believe that the situation requires it. But we focus on the question, and, as you all know, once again February has sown anguish, impotence, desolation, to many citizens of the Basque Country who year after year, laughing after laughter, see their homes, their businesses, their accesses, and significantly altered their daily activity. You said, Madam Counsellor, that in the Basque Country there are 100 areas that concentrate the greatest risk of flooding, but you know, Madam Counsellor, where the greatest problems are concentrated within those 100 areas, and which of these 100 areas require urgent action. We have, for example, the Urumea basin, which are already going to start the works of a stretch in the area of Martutene and we could say that at last these works start, at last they arrive. But the Urumea basin is wider. For example, if we go up the river the problems are not minor, and the neighbors of Astigarraga, for example, lamented the repeated occasions when their businesses, their streets, their premises, and despair were felt in their words. They said: "It gives me the impression that this does not seem to improve in the future; the river will continue to overflow, and we, the usual, will continue to pay for the consequences." We can move to the Zadorra basin, especially the area that lies below Vitoria and which affects several villages, such as Yurre or like Lopidana, Gobeo, Asteguieta, Estarrona, Subijana, Lermanda, Margarita, Mendoza, Trespuentes, Víllodas and Nanclares, whose inhabitants are fed up, tired of suffering floods that occur every time there is a period of intense rain that makes them endure situations of cutting access to their homes, damage to infrastructure, urban farms, rustic farms... The representatives of these peoples have sent you a letter on 19 February, in which they reiterate that the floods are repeated systematically, regardless of whether or not these rainfalls reach extraordinary numbers. And they remind him that they sent him another letter in November asking him to take all possible measures to recover the hydraulic capacity of Zadorra between Abechuk and Treviño, and they complained these representatives, counselor, that they did not receive an answer from him. Madam Councilwoman, this requires an explanation, because we do not understand from the People's Group this silence in the face of a logical and sensible demand, because I, trying to put myself in the situation in these areas, would supposedly be as tired as they are. In addition, the Zadorra also overflows in the Llanada. Here it does not affect urban cores, but the repeated damage to rural areas is very important, and it is repeated systematically when it rains with high intensity. Some urban areas have also sometimes felt affected, but it is often more occasional. It has already been explained in this House that for URA there is no problem with farms adjacent to the rivers, that it is normal for them to suffer floods and their productions to be lost, but the counselor has to understand that the river is losing capacity and that overflows are becoming more and more important, more and more repeated. And these overflows not only nullify the productions; they also drag the fertile layer of the farms, which adds to a greater loss. And this is also the deterioration of the environment and the substrate that occurs on rustic soils. Therefore, as I say to you, this also involves significant damage to the primary sector. The bad state of many rivers in no way helps to withstand situations of intense rainfall, and let us not say if, as on this last occasion, they have been exceptional and repeated. They spoke in Gipuzkoa of 250 litres; three times more than announced, they also said in some medium of communication that I saw. What we really see is that the damage has been important. And I tell you, counselor, how is it possible, for example, that on the river Zadorra, on a bridge, in the middle of the avenue, a trailer of a truck could be seen, for example, and that the days would pass and the trailer would remain there, with the great risk that this would pose? I think this also requires an explanation. And how the state of our rivers is maintained. Counselor, the needs and demands are accumulating. We are talking about solutions to avoid these floods that require investment. And I know it's hard, but this has to be a government bet. We're talking about situations that are getting longer, they're getting longer, and the fatigue is getting bigger and bigger. From the People's Group we believe that it should be a Government's commitment, a priority for the Government, planning and prioritizing the necessary actions to give a solution to these areas of the Basque Country which, in the face of periods of intense rain, are flooded yes or yes. We know the black spots. So, what I'm urging the counselor is, if you have a planning in time, budget, and period to be able to deal with this... Because it's the only way those affected somehow see that there's a period of time they're going to endure, but there's a solution. We can't be... You asked for patience, and I understand you, your economic situation and the difficulty in carrying certain infrastructures, but we cannot respond patiently to the citizens. We have to respond with economic programming, and in time and in action, which is the most priority and which is not, because I believe that, in view of that, what we can do is to unite all of us in pushing for that to happen as soon as possible. So, that's what we're asking you, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u130	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. To answer, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u131	Yes, good morning. Good morning again. Mrs López de Ocariz, I thank you for your inquiry on this subject, because I believe it is an issue of interest to all. And indeed, at the time of the appearance, or the request for appearance, since we entered immediately in Holy Week period, etc., it was quite delayed in the calendar. You speak of the tiredness, anguish and impotence of those who repeatedly suffer from these kinds of situations, and from here my solidarity with those who have suffered these last episodes of February. I also take this opportunity to say that we are working on an aid decree, which, as we did last year with coastal storms throughout the coast area, we hope to approve shortly, so that we can at least give a way out of the damage caused in this last or these last episodes, because I believe that this House can incorporate two. For a long time, I've been working on the shelter of the suburbs under the flood. In 1994 the special plan of preventing the floods was completed, and its activity has been completed since then in progress and in reality. It must be observed that the historical passive state of these dangers is great, and therefore the necessity of acting at least in the same measure. From that time forward, the measures of the prevention of floods, structured and unstructured, have been introduced in the hydrological documents of planning our country, and the exclusive jurisdictions of Eucitas as a contribution to the jurisdiction of the State. At present, the Basque Government is completing the flood risk management plan, which is due to be promulgated by December 2015 in compliance with European Directive 2007/60EC on the assessment and management of such risk, after completing in time and in form the two phases prior to the plan marked by the Directive itself, such as the preliminary flood risk assessment in December 2011 and the hazard and risk mapping in December 2013. This plan is currently in the form of public information and contains measures for structural protection, for preparedness and early warning against avenues, and also for prevention; non-structural measures of daily application that involve land management with hydrological planning and management of the public domain, aimed at not reproducing in the future these situations that create risks by respecting the natural phenomenon of avenues. The catalogue of structural measures includes, of course, those that are being implemented today, such as those that are taking place and to which you referred, in Urumea, Ibaizabal, Gobela, and those that are being projected for execution as soon as possible, such as Zalla in the Cadagua, Laudio in Nervión, Villabona-Zizurkil in the Oria, or Vitoria Gasteiz in the Zadorra, and also in the entire area of the southern rivers. Regardless of the structural measures, the current early warning system should be highlighted. The meteorological prediction system, together with the system of simulation of river and reservoir behavior, and with good inter-institutional collaboration that I want to highlight at this point, make the early warning of possible important avenues move to the general population with sufficient time to be able to minimize the damage that can be generated. As for the point he makes to me about the request for information from those affected in the specific area of waters below the reservoirs of Ullibarri-Ganboa, I will tell you that we have already set up a meeting (I think it is for next week, if my memory does not fail), and we will deal with all these issues with them, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u133	Yes, Counselor, you have not answered me to the state of cleanliness of the Zadorra River and some elements that we do not understand how they can be in the river, and above all before such important avenues and that can cause a situation..., well, I think they can cause significant risks. The tool the Government has for the execution of the works is the Basque Agency of Water-URA, which comes its budgets to this House, and what it had in the budget for 2015 was 40,615,000 euros, investment budget 24,679,000, for floods it had 18,008,000 euros more or less. And I'd like to know where these $18 million are right now, which is what they're doing. Because you have now approved the 19 million for the Martutene channel, you have approved 25 million euros for the Gobela river... I don't know if this is the end of the Gobela River or there are more things left to go. And for Álava there's certainly no flood party, unless they're within this 18 million that's what I need to know. I believe that, in fact, the hydrological plans and the whole process of compulsory compliance is there. But I don't think we can go and tell the citizens, "I'm doing the flood risk management plan." Here we have to schedule, in fact, what budget we are going to put in URA in the next ten years, because I do not think that we can assume everything that is pending in one, in two, or in three. Programming is therefore needed, not only because the Government, in its case, requires input, but there are also other administrations that have to start making land available to the Government for certain actions. Because such coordination requires programming already, also knowing what commitments other institutions have also responsible. So, I think it requires planning. On the sidelines, and knowing that the hydrological plan and management plans are almost developed, we already know what work needs to be done. So, let's see the possibilities that we have in view of today. If we have higher incomes at other times, then, you can also face others, but know what we can do, and say, "Well, here may be that in four years we can get into action." Because I think that's what the affected citizen is waiting for, and we have an obligation to give him an answer. Therefore, would you be willing to do a programming with actions to an equitable period, of ten years, five years (I don't know, I think that should also be considered by you), that it is didactic, on the sidelines, as it could not be otherwise, in relation to hydrological plans and management plans? But something that is didactic for the one affected that says "Actually, in five years it is possible that there will be a performance here", because tomorrow we have another flood and it will be repeated and again no one does anything. I believe that we must also explain the difficulties that may exist for certain actions, that citizens know, and that these actions can be carried out in a fair period of time. That is what we really want to ask: a programming and a response to citizens that is at least understandable, but that do not have the response of patience. Do you understand what I want to say to you? An effective response. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u134	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. To answer, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u135	Yes, thank you again. Patience, Mrs López de Ocariz, was at a concrete moment with the neighbors of Urumea, because the works actually begin. I know we are administrations and we have to act, but at that particular moment and in that context I think that word was not so unfortunate. Good. I wanted to distinguish in my first speech a little bit also what structural and non-structural works are. That is why I have referred to all the plans (prevention, etc.), because I think it is very important, with the liabilities we have in our territory in this chapter, not to increase the problems. That is why I believe that the work in flood prevention that we do, from authorizations to uses within flood zones (to uses, buildings, constructions, etc.), I think it is essential and that is why I always like to highlight it. Apart from that, we are obviously working on the resolution of those liabilities. First by identifying all the black spots, all the conflicting points, which we practically all know and are in the planning, are in the programming. And they're also involved in hydrological plans. There's that programming, eh! Programming is in the specific chapter of the basins, slopes, the Mediterranean basins. They are within the Hydrological Plan of the Ebro, the others in the Hydrological Plan of the Cantabrian, and that is where it appears which are priorities, which enter the first programming period, which enter later... They're all there, that planning exists. We try, I assure you, to make an effort of communication and an effort of explanation towards the citizens, because we know that in difficult times, when you have your house or your property or your farm full of water, it is very difficult to explain anything, but of course I assure you that we try. I don't know if we get it, but of course we try to transmit, count, explain over and over again what the problems are, what the plans are, what the schedules are.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u136	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u137	We have defined the problems and they are programmed in all those hydrological plannings I was commenting on. And then there is another third chapter that I think is also very important to highlight, which is clean-up, which I did not actually mention in the first intervention. Cleaning is done systematically from URA. Within available resources, cleaning contracts are drawn up which are carried out annually in river basins. Three packages are established, and Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa and Álava are made, and managed through the territorial offices we have in each of the territories. That's a lot of money. In 2014, for example, in the case of Bizkaia it was a million euros practically, in Gipuzkoa similar, and in Álava it was 538,000 euros of cleaning. But we know that we don't reach everyone, and we know that we can't cover the whole territory, and that the best agents in the territory – and it also comes within their competence, as the hydrological plan says – are the local administrations (municipalities, administrative boards, etc.). It is the local administrations, and that is why we have established or launched a work initiative in collaboration with the local authorities, which you have also asked me a question recently, and I have to tell you that we have had a very good, very interesting answer from many municipalities of the Autonomous Community, which are willing to sign agreements with us by which we will collaboratively cover more river cleaning. But we have also made the same invitation to the administrative boards, and we have also received a reply, although the truth is that not many are yet. But we believe that this is an incipient line of work and that we should be expanding in the future. We have also received a reply, or request, from the Salvatierra Quadrilla, the Aiara Quadrilla, the Udaltalde 21 Nerbioi-Ibaizabal, for example, which we would also like to attend to and with which we are working in that line of signing collaborative agreements. From there we also have to establish what are the cleanings of the rivers, obviously, what are the terms of cleaning. When in a river we have wheels of cars, carts of children, refrigerators, etc., that's not proper to the river, let's say; those are solid urban waste, that's something else. And when we have a trailer it's definitely a matter of road safety too, a trailer that's there. But as far as systematic preventive cleaning of problems that can occur in rivers is concerned, we do so in this other way, which are those systematic cleanings and we hope that in the future collaborative with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Daniel Maez Perez, the parliamentary of the DIVER and the head physician of the State of the Lands, about the name of the Gastine Mountains in the Park of Nature." From there, Mr. Mazet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u139	Good noon, everyone. If you'll excuse me, ask me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u140	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. To answer, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u141	Yes, indeed, in the middle of the...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u142	Wait, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The time has gone wrong. Again, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u143	Yes, now, yes. Yes, thank you. We've changed so quickly, I might have mixed up the papers too. Indeed, at the plenary session of this Parliament on 6 March we were urged to adequately protect the scope defined in the original PORN document, in order to avoid threats of transformation and loss of values. And we were also urged to protect the mountains and crops from the impactful activities, in general from the processes of artificialization, respecting and guaranteeing the sustainable socio-economic development of peoples and enhancing their forest, agricultural and livestock lifestyle, ensuring the participation of municipalities, administrative boards and gasteiztarra and Alavesa society in order to achieve the greatest possible consensus. And yes, Mr. Maeztu, that's where we are.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u145	Well, no. You do not know, and you know very well, and you know very well that you are not of this kind, and therefore the other day he voted against it. Do not use word games. Here it is clear what demand is to be designated by Gastei Mountains in the Natural Park. To protect 12,000 acres of Gastine Mountains, and to plan for the organization of natural resources, to make that plan necessary, to make it and to agree with the local nations. Do you know how well I'll try to ask you again if you can follow the tramital procedure to designate the Mounts of Central Vittoria in the Natural Park, and continue with the process of protecting 1,000 acres? That's the question and the question that we want to know. Not only because the US of the Basque Council has already said that it has been asked for by the Gastine Council, because it has been requested in this way by the General Assembly of the Arabs, but I do not know for certain that in some other subject there is in the theme of the Garoña that is so much political agreement with him. In the Garoña area, he's only left for several PP years, but he's finally changed his attitude. Can you change your attitude? And if you don't change it, why don't you change it? I have a very clear view of it, and it has been confirmed this week that the chief of the Industries of the Industries of the Industries have said very clearly that they will be placed within the site of the Guardion of environments, the chief physician of the Industries, marked by the Chief of Industries, that two wells will be made under the license of Ena, namely, of the First Montes de Vittoria. Is that the real reason, Mrs. Chief? Does the Industries mark the criteria of environment in this government? If so, eliminate the Environmental Department and the Industries and Dispensation Department, if that's your final aim. Your party, also, the Jelt Party, has made a decision, and this decision is to explore, explore, explore, explore, explore, explore, explore, explore, and explore under our soil. Yesterday, as it was exposed in Madrid, defending the Hydrocburic law, the red carpeted with fracing's exploitation: That's what PNV's doing, putting on the red carpet. And if the Gastian Mountains are not all named natural park, protect that site, you'll put a red rug on the Fracing Aran and the first wells, and you, head of the Environment, will be a accomplice because you have a chance to protect that area. Don't you have the resources of nature worth protecting the liver? Don't you think we ought to find our agreement in this place in order to make a balanced social development with the people? Yes, the development of nations, protected by natural resources, but not in 2,000 acres, as you would have them, was LIC Batterau. We agree with that LIC, but he includes 3,000 acres and subilla-Gascent wells, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u146	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u147	Mr. Mazetu, why don't we declare all our territory in natural park? Much better, much better! You handle the figure with a perversion. You know that figures to protect nature are not a spell, they're not. And if they are, then let us declare that which is our country. Let's get to business! The protection and active conservation of the values of Montes de Vitoria is absolutely ensured by the declaration as ZEC, by becoming part of the Network of Protected Natural Spaces of the Autonomous Community, objective pursued by the order of February 12, 2010 that you also know. In addition, the protection of natural values hosted by the part of Montes de Vitoria not included in that part of protected natural space is regulated and protected by sufficient planning tools or normative instruments, which not only allow, but also oblige administrations to protect and preserve existing natural values. I don't know if you've read the famous PORN. I do. I do not know if you have discussed it with the administrative boards, with the municipalities concerned, not only that of Vitoria, with those affected, with those living in that area of the territory. I do. And look, I'm going to tell you, this initially approved PORN does not generically prohibit industrial activities, even though these were industrial activities that were related to the exploitation of the natural resources that exist in their field. Activities such as natural gas extraction, if any, could only be prohibited by the PORN when they were incompatible with the environmental values protected (Article 19.4). This same article further states that, in any case, in cases where these activities can be compatible with the environmental values that are protected, the projects for extractive activities in natural spaces will be submitted to the mandatory environmental impact assessment, blabla, blabla... , "which shall include the work necessary for the replenishment of the previous situation, the recovery of environmental values", etc. It should be stressed that the Habitats Directive, which is the subject of the EEZs, requires an appropriate assessment of the environmental impact – similar to what I have read before – of any plan or project, not only those within the scope, but also those that may affect the natural values of the area in question. Therefore, yes, Mr. Maeztu, of course we will continue to protect the values, the natural values of the area of Montes de Vitoria, and of course we will continue to work with the joints...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2015-03-13.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-nine.
